[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects and the prevailing market price and performance of our Class A common stock may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the material risks noted below. Our stockholders and prospective investors should consider these risks, uncertainties and other factors prior to making an investment decision.. Risks Related to Our Sources of Financing and Liquidity. Our significant indebtedness could materially adversely affect our financial health, limit our ability to finance future acquisitions, expansion plans and capital expenditures and prevent us from fulfilling our financial obligations.. As of December 31, 2017, our total outstanding indebtedness was approximately $2.5 billion, which includes floor plan notes payable, long-term debt and short-term debt.. We have up to $250.0 million of maximum borrowing availability under a syndicated revolving credit facility (the \"2016 Revolving Credit Facility\") and up to $1.0 billion of maximum borrowing availability for combined syndicated new and used vehicle inventory floor plan financing (the \"2016 Floor Plan Facilities\"). We refer to the 2016 Revolving Credit Facility and the 2016 Floor Plan Facilities collectively as the \"2016 Credit Facilities.\" As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $155.3 million available for additional borrowings under the 2016 Revolving Credit Facility based on the borrowing base calculation, which is affected by numerous factors, including eligible asset balances. We are able to borrow under the 2016 Revolving Credit Facility only if, at the time of the borrowing, we have met all representations and warranties and are in compliance with all financial and other covenants contained therein. We also have capacity to finance new and used vehicle inventory purchases under floor plan agreements with various manufacturer-affiliated finance companies and other lending institutions (the \"Silo Floor Plan Facilities\") as well as the 2016 Floor Plan Facilities. In addition, the indentures relating to our 5.0% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2023 (the \"5.0% Notes\"), our 6.125% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2027 (the \"6.125% Notes\") and our other debt instruments allow us to incur additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, as long as we comply with the terms thereunder.. In addition, the majority of our dealership properties are leased under long-term operating lease arrangements that commonly have initial terms of 15 to 20 years with renewal options generally ranging from five to 10 years. These operating leases require compliance with financial and operating covenants similar to those under the 2016 Credit Facilities, and monthly payments of rent that may fluctuate based on interest rates and local consumer price indices. The total future minimum lease payments related to these operating leases and certain equipment leases are significant and are disclosed in Note 12, \"Commitments and Contingencies,\" to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.. Our failure to comply with certain covenants in these agreements or indentures could materially adversely affect our ability to access our borrowing capacity, subject us to acceleration of our outstanding debt, result in a cross default on other indebtedness and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue our business.. An acceleration of our obligation to repay all or a substantial portion of our outstanding indebtedness or lease obligations would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The 2016 Credit Facilities, the indentures governing the 5.0% Notes and the 6.125% Notes and many of our operating leases contain numerous financial and operating covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the applicable agreement or indenture. In addition, a default under one agreement or indenture could result in a cross default and acceleration of our repayment obligations under the other agreements or indentures, including the indentures governing the 5.0% Notes and the 6.125% Notes. If a default or cross default were to occur, we may not be able to pay our debts or borrow sufficient funds to refinance them. Even if new financing were available, it may not be on terms acceptable to us. If a default were to occur, we may be unable to adequately finance our operations and the value of our common stock would be materially adversely affected because of acceleration and cross-default provisions. As a result of this risk, we could be forced to take actions that we otherwise would not take, or not take actions that we otherwise might take, in order to comply with the covenants in these agreements and indentures.. 9. SONIC AUTOMOTIVE, INC.. RISK FACTORS. Our ability to make interest and principal payments when due to holders of our debt securities depends upon our future performance and our receipt of sufficient funds from our subsidiaries.. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and other expenses will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, domestic and foreign economic conditions, the regulatory environment and other factors, many of which we are unable to control. Substantially all of our consolidated assets are held by our subsidiaries and substantially all of our consolidated cash flow and net income are generated by our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our cash flow and ability to service debt depend to a substantial degree on the results of operations of our subsidiaries and upon the ability of our subsidiaries to provide us with cash. We may receive cash from our subsidiaries in the form of dividends, loans or distributions. We may use this cash to service our debt obligations or for working capital. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to distribute cash to us or to make funds available to service debt.. If our cash flow is not sufficient to service our debt as it becomes due, we may be required to refinance the debt, sell assets or sell shares of our common stock on terms that we do not find attractive. Further, our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants relating to the 2016 Credit Facilities and the indentures pertaining to our outstanding notes could result in a default under these agreements and indentures that would prevent us from borrowing under the 2016 Credit Facilities, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If a default and acceleration of repayment were to occur, we may be unable to adequately finance our operations and the value of our Class A common stock could be materially adversely affected.. We have financed the purchase of certain dealership properties with mortgage notes that require balloon payments at the end of the notes' terms.. Many of our mortgage notes' principal and interest payments are based on an amortization period longer than the actual terms (maturity dates) of the notes. We will be required to repay or refinance the remaining principal balances for certain of our mortgages with balloon payments at the notes' maturity dates, which range from 2018 to 2033. The amounts to be repaid or refinanced at the maturity dates could be significant. We may not have sufficient liquidity to make such payments at the notes' maturity dates. In the event we do not have sufficient liquidity to completely repay the remaining principal balances at maturity, we may not be able to refinance the notes at interest rates that are acceptable to us or, depending on market conditions, refinance the notes at all. Our inability to repay or refinance these notes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on the performance of subleases to offset costs related to certain of our lease agreements.. In many cases, when we sell a dealership, the buyer of the dealership will sublease the dealership property from us, but we are not released from the underlying lease obligation to the primary landlord. We rely on the sublease income from the buyer to offset the expense incurred related to our obligation to pay the primary landlord. We also rely on the buyer to maintain the property in accordance with the terms of the sublease (which in most cases mirror the terms of the lease we have with the primary landlord). Although we assess the financial condition of a buyer at the time we sell the dealership, and seek to obtain guarantees of the buyer's sublease obligation from the stockholders or affiliates of the buyer, the financial condition of the buyer and/or the sublease guarantors may deteriorate over time. In the event the buyer does not perform under the terms of the sublease agreement (due to the buyer's financial condition or other factors), we may not be able to recover amounts owed to us under the terms of the sublease agreement or the related guarantees. Our operating results, financial condition and cash flows may be materially adversely affected if sublessees do not perform their obligations under the terms of the sublease agreements.. Our use of hedging transactions could limit our financial gains or result in financial losses.. To reduce our exposure to fluctuations in cash flow due to interest rate fluctuations, we have entered into, and in the future expect to enter into, certain derivative instruments (or hedging agreements). No hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates. As of December 31, 2017, we had interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to effectively convert a portion of our LIBOR-based variable rate debt to a fixed rate or to limit our exposure to rising interest rates. See the heading \"Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities\" under Note 6, \"Long-Term Debt,\" to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. We intend to hedge as much of our interest rate risk as management determines is in our best interests given the cost of such hedging transactions.. Our hedging transactions expose us to certain risks and financial losses, including, among other things:. •  counterparty credit risk;. •  available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which we seek protection;. 10. SONIC AUTOMOTIVE, INC.. RISK FACTORS. •  the duration or the amount of the hedge may not match the duration or the amount of the related liability;. •  the value of derivatives used for hedging may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with accounting rules to reflect changes in fair value, downward adjustments or \"mark-to-market losses,\" which would affect our stockholders' equity; and. •  all of our hedging instruments contain terms and conditions with which we are required to meet. In the event those terms and conditions are not met, we may be required to settle the instruments prior to the instruments' maturity with cash payments, which could significantly affect our liquidity.. A failure on our part to effectively hedge against interest rate changes may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to satisfy our debt obligations upon the occurrence of a change of control.. Upon the occurrence of a change of control, as defined in the 5.0% Notes and the 6.125% Notes, holders of these instruments will have the right to require us to purchase all or any part of such holders' notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. The events that constitute a change of control under these indentures may also constitute a default under the 2016 Credit Facilities. Any future debt instruments that we may incur may contain similar provisions regarding repurchases in the event of a change of control triggering event. There can be no assurance that we would have sufficient resources available to satisfy all of our obligations under these debt instruments in the event of a change of control. In the event we were unable to satisfy these obligations, it could have a material adverse impact on our business and our stockholders.. Risks Related to Our Relationships with Vehicle Manufacturers. Our operations may be adversely affected if one or more of our manufacturer franchise or dealer agreements is terminated or not renewed.. Each of our dealerships operates under a separate franchise or dealer agreement with the applicable automobile manufacturer. Without a franchise or dealer agreement, we cannot obtain new vehicles from a manufacturer or advertise as an authorized factory service center. As a result, we are significantly dependent on our relationships with the manufacturers.. Moreover, manufacturers exercise a great degree of control over the operations of our dealerships through the franchise and dealer agreements. The franchise and dealer agreements govern, among other things, our ability to purchase vehicles from the manufacturer and to sell vehicles to customers. Each of our franchise or dealer agreements provides for termination or non-renewal for a variety of causes, including certain changes in the financial condition of the dealerships and any unapproved change of ownership or management. Manufacturers may also have a right of first refusal if we seek to sell dealerships.. We cannot guarantee that any of our existing franchise and dealer agreements will be renewed or that the terms and conditions of such renewals will be favorable to us. Actions taken by manufacturers to exploit their superior bargaining position in negotiating the terms of franchise and dealer agreements or renewals of these agreements or otherwise could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our failure to meet a manufacturer's customer satisfaction, financial and sales performance and facility requirements may adversely affect our profitability and our ability to acquire new dealerships.. A manufacturer may condition its allotment of vehicles, participation in bonus programs or acquisition of additional franchises upon our compliance with its brand and facility standards. These standards may require investments in technology and facilities that we otherwise would not make. This may put us in a competitive disadvantage with other competing dealerships and may ultimately result in our decision to sell a franchise when we believe it may be difficult to recover the cost of the required investment to reach the manufacturer's brand and facility standards.. 11. SONIC AUTOMOTIVE, INC.. RISK FACTORS. In addition, many manufacturers attempt to measure customers' satisfaction with their sales and warranty service experiences through manufacturer-determined CSI scores. The components of CSI vary by manufacturer and are modified periodically. Franchise and dealer agreements may also impose financial and sales performance standards. Under our agreements with certain manufacturers, a dealership's CSI scores and financial and sales performance standards may be considered as factors in evaluating applications for additional dealership acquisitions. From time to time, some of our dealerships have had difficulty meeting various manufacturers' CSI requirements or performance standards. We cannot assure you that our dealerships will be able to comply with these requirements or performance standards in the future. A manufacturer may refuse to consent to an acquisition of one of its franchises if it determines our dealerships do not comply with its CSI requirements or performance standards, which could impair the execution of our acquisition strategy. In addition, we receive incentive payments from the manufacturers based, in part, on CSI scores, which could be materially adversely affected if our CSI scores decline.. If state dealer laws are repealed or weakened, our dealerships will be more susceptible to termination, non-renewal or renegotiation of their franchise and dealer agreements.. State dealer laws generally provide that a manufacturer may not terminate or refuse to renew a franchise or dealer agreement unless it has first provided the dealer with written notice setting forth good cause and stating the grounds for termination or non-renewal. Some state dealer laws allow dealers to file protests or petitions or attempt to comply with the manufacturer's criteria within the notice period to avoid the termination or non-renewal. Manufacturers' lobbying efforts may lead to the repeal or revision of state dealer laws. If dealer laws are repealed or weakened in the states in which we operate, manufacturers may be able to terminate our franchises without providing advance notice, an opportunity to cure or a showing of good cause. Without the protection of state dealer laws, it may also be more difficult for our dealerships to renew their franchise or dealer agreements upon expiration.. The ability of a manufacturer to grant additional franchises is based on several factors which are not within our control. If manufacturers grant new franchises in areas near or within our existing markets, this could significantly impact our revenues and/or profitability. In addition, current state dealer laws generally restrict the ability of automobile manufacturers to enter the retail market and sell directly to consumers. However, if manufacturers obtain the ability to directly retail vehicles and do so in our markets, such competition could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our sales volume and profit margin on each sale may be materially adversely affected if manufacturers discontinue or change their incentive programs.. Our dealerships depend on the manufacturers for certain sales incentives, warranties and other programs that are intended to promote and support dealership new vehicle sales. Manufacturers routinely modify their incentive programs in response to changing market conditions. Some of the key incentive programs include:. •  customer rebates or below market financing on new and used vehicles;. •  employee pricing;. •  dealer incentives on new vehicles;. •  manufacturer floor plan interest and advertising assistance;. •  warranties on new and used vehicles; and. •  sponsorship of CPO vehicle sales by authorized new vehicle dealers.. Manufacturers frequently offer incentives to potential customers. A reduction or discontinuation of a manufacturer's incentive programs may materially adversely impact vehicle demand and affect our results of operations.. Our sales volume may be materially adversely affected if manufacturer captives change their customer financing programs or are unable to provide floor plan financing.. One of the primary finance sources used by consumers in connection with the purchase of a new or used vehicle is the manufacturer captive finance companies. These captive finance companies rely, to a certain extent, on the public debt markets to provide the capital necessary to support their financing programs. In addition, the captive finance companies will occasionally change their loan underwriting criteria to alter the risk profile of their loan portfolio. A limitation or reduction of available consumer financing for these or other reasons could affect consumers' ability to purchase a vehicle and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our sales volume.. 12. SONIC AUTOMOTIVE, INC.. RISK FACTORS. Our parts and service sales volume and margins are dependent on manufacturer warranty programs.. Franchised automotive retailers perform factory authorized service work and sell original replacement parts on vehicles covered by warranties issued by the automotive manufacturer. Dealerships which perform work covered by a manufacturer warranty are reimbursed at rates established by the manufacturer. For 2017, approximately 20.0% of our parts, service and collision repair revenues was for work covered by manufacturer warranties. To the extent a manufacturer reduces the labor rates or markup of replacement parts for such warranty work, our parts and service sales volume and margins could be adversely affected.. Adverse conditions affecting one or more key manufacturers or lenders may negatively impact our results of operations.. Our results of operations depend on the products, services, and financing and incentive programs offered by major automobile manufacturers, and could be negatively impacted by any significant changes to these manufacturers' financial condition, marketing strategy, vehicle design, publicity concerning a particular manufacturer or vehicle model, production capabilities, management, reputation and labor relations.. Events such as labor strikes or other disruptions in production, including those caused by natural disasters, that may adversely affect a manufacturer may also adversely affect us. In particular, labor strikes at a manufacturer that continue for a substantial period of time could have a material adverse effect on our business. Similarly, the delivery of vehicles from manufacturers at a time later than scheduled, which may occur during critical periods of new product introductions, could limit sales of those vehicles during those periods. This has been experienced at some of our dealerships from time to time. Adverse conditions affecting these and other important aspects of manufacturers' operations and public relations may adversely affect our ability to sell their automobiles and, as a result, significantly and detrimentally affect our business and results of operations.. Moreover, our business could be materially adversely impacted by the bankruptcy of a major vehicle manufacturer or related lender. For example:. •  a manufacturer in bankruptcy could attempt to terminate all or certain of our franchises, in which case we may not receive adequate compensation for our franchises;. •  consumer demand for such manufacturer's products could be substantially reduced;. •  a lender in bankruptcy could attempt to terminate our floor plan financing and demand repayment of any amounts outstanding;. •  we may be unable to arrange financing for our customers for their vehicle purchases and leases through such lender, in which case we would be required to seek financing with alternate financing sources, which may be difficult to obtain on similar terms, if at all;. •  we may be unable to collect some or all of our significant receivables that are due from such manufacturer or lender, and we may be subject to preference claims relating to payments made by such manufacturer or lender prior to bankruptcy; and. •  such manufacturer may be relieved of its indemnification obligations with respect to product liability claims.. Additionally, any such bankruptcy may result in us being required to incur impairment charges with respect to the inventory, fixed assets and intangible assets related to certain dealerships, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to remain in compliance with the financial ratios contained in our debt agreements.. Manufacturer stock ownership restrictions may impair our ability to maintain or renew franchise or dealer agreements or issue additional equity.. Some of our franchise and dealer agreements prohibit transfers of any ownership interests of a dealership and, in some cases, its parent, without prior approval of the applicable manufacturer. Our existing franchise and dealer agreements could be terminated if a person or entity acquires a substantial ownership interest in us or acquires voting power above certain levels without the applicable manufacturer's approval. While the holders of our Class B common stock currently maintain voting control of Sonic, their future investment decisions as well as those of holders of our Class A common stock are generally outside of our control and could result in the termination or non-renewal of existing franchise or dealer agreements or impair our ability to negotiate new franchise or dealer agreements for dealerships we acquire in the future. In addition, if we cannot obtain any requisite approvals on a timely basis, we may not be able to issue additional equity or otherwise raise capital on terms acceptable to us. These restrictions may also prevent or deter a prospective acquirer from acquiring control of us.. 13. SONIC AUTOMOTIVE, INC.. RISK FACTORS. We depend on manufacturers to supply us with sufficient numbers of popular new models.. Manufacturers typically allocate their vehicles among dealerships based on the sales history of each dealership. Supplies of popular new vehicles may be limited by the applicable manufacturer's production capabilities. Popular new vehicles that are in limited supply typically produce the highest profit margins. We depend on manufacturers to provide us with a desirable mix of popular new vehicles. Our operating results may be materially adversely affected if we do not obtain a sufficient supply of these vehicles on a timely basis.. A decline in the quality of vehicles we sell, or consumers' perception of the quality of those vehicles, may adversely affect our business.. Our business is highly dependent on consumer demand and preferences. Events such as manufacturer recalls and negative publicity (for example, Volkswagen and Audi emissions-related issues in recent years) or legal proceedings related to these events may have a negative impact on the products we sell. If such events are significant, the profitability of our dealerships related to those manufacturers could be adversely affected and we could experience a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Risks Related to Our Growth Strategy. Our investment in new business strategies, services and technologies is inherently risky, and could disrupt our ongoing business or have a material adverse effect on our overall business and results of operations.. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in new business strategies, services and technologies, including our stand-alone pre-owned store initiative and our OSOE initiative. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including allocating management resources away from current operations, insufficient revenues to offset expenses associated with these new investments, inadequate return of capital on our investments and unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence of such strategies and offerings. Because these ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and offerings will be successful and will not have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and operating results.. Our ability to make acquisitions, execute our stand-alone pre-owned store initiative and grow organically may be restricted by the terms and limits of the 2016 Credit Facilities and the indentures which govern our outstanding notes.. The amount of capital available to us is limited to the liquidity available under the 2016 Credit Facilities and capital generated through operating activities. Pursuant to the 2016 Credit Facilities, we are restricted from making dealership acquisitions in any fiscal year if the aggregate cost of all such acquisitions is in excess of certain amounts, without the written consent of the Required Lenders (as that term is defined in the 2016 Credit Facilities). Our pace and scale of growing our stand-alone pre-owned store initiative may be limited in the event other sources of capital are unavailable. These restrictions may limit our growth strategy.. We may not be able to capitalize on future real estate and dealership acquisition opportunities because our ability to obtain capital to fund these acquisitions is limited.. We intend to finance future real estate and dealership acquisitions with cash generated from operations, through issuances of our stock or debt securities and through borrowings under credit arrangements. We may not be able to obtain additional financing by issuing stock or debt securities due to the market price of our Class A common stock, overall market conditions or covenants under the 2016 Credit Facilities that restrict our ability to issue additional indebtedness, or the need for manufacturer consent to the issuance of equity securities. Using cash to complete acquisitions could substantially limit our operating or financial flexibility.. In addition, we are dependent to a significant extent on our ability to finance our new and certain of our used vehicle inventory under the 2016 Floor Plan Facilities or the Silo Floor Plan Facilities (collectively, \"Floor Plan Financing\"). Floor Plan Financing arrangements allow us to borrow money to buy a particular new vehicle from the manufacturer or a used vehicle on trade-in or at auction and pay off the loan when we sell that particular vehicle. We must obtain Floor Plan Financing or obtain consents to assume existing floor plan notes payable in connection with our acquisition of dealerships. In the event that we are unable to obtain such financing, our ability to complete dealership acquisitions could be limited.. Substantially all the assets of our dealerships are pledged to secure the indebtedness under the 2016 Credit Facilities and the Silo Floor Plan Facilities. These pledges may impede our ability to borrow from other sources. Moreover, because certain lending institutions are either owned by or affiliated with an automobile manufacturer, any deterioration of our relationship with the particular manufacturer-affiliated finance subsidiary could adversely affect our relationship with the affiliated manufacturer, and vice versa.. 14. SONIC AUTOMOTIVE, INC.. RISK FACTORS. Manufacturers' restrictions on acquisitions could limit our future growth.. We are required to obtain the approval of the applicable manufacturer before we can acquire an additional franchise of that manufacturer. In determining whether to approve an acquisition, manufacturers may consider many factors, such as our financial condition and CSI scores.. Certain manufacturers also limit the number of its dealerships that we may own in total, the number of dealerships we may own in a particular geographic area, or our national market share of that manufacturer's sales of new vehicles. In addition, under an applicable franchise or dealer agreement or under state law, a manufacturer may have a right of first refusal to acquire a dealership that we seek to acquire.. A manufacturer may condition approval of an acquisition on the implementation of material changes in our operations or extraordinary corporate transactions, facilities improvements or other capital expenditures. If we are unable or unwilling to comply with these conditions, we may be required to sell the assets of that manufacturer's dealerships or terminate our franchise or dealer agreement. We cannot assure you that manufacturers will approve future acquisitions or do so on a timely basis, which could impair the execution of our acquisition strategy.. Failure to effectively integrate acquired dealerships with our existing operations could adversely affect our future operating results.. Our future operating results depend on our ability to integrate the operations of acquired dealerships with our existing operations. In particular, we need to integrate our management information systems, procedures and organizational structures, which can be difficult. Our growth strategy has focused on the pursuit of strategic acquisitions or brand development that either expand or complement our business.. We cannot assure you that we will effectively and profitably integrate the operations of these dealerships without substantial costs, delays or operational or financial problems, due to:. •  the difficulties of managing operations located in geographic areas where we have not previously operated;. •  the management time and attention required to integrate and manage newly acquired dealerships;. •  the difficulties of assimilating and retaining employees;. •  the challenges of keeping customers; and. •  the challenge of retaining or attracting appropriate dealership management personnel.. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may not adequately anticipate all of the demands that growth through acquisitions or brand development will impose.. We face risks growing through acquisitions or expansion. These risks include, but are not limited to:. •  incurring significantly higher capital expenditures and operating expenses;. •  failing to assimilate the operations and personnel of acquired dealerships;. •  entering new markets with which we are unfamiliar;. •  incurring potential undiscovered liabilities and operational difficulties at acquired dealerships;. •  disrupting our ongoing business;. •  diverting our management resources;. •  failing to maintain uniform standards, controls and policies;. •  impairing relationships with employees, manufacturers and customers as a result of changes in management;. •  incurring increased expenses for accounting and computer systems, as well as integration difficulties;. 15. SONIC AUTOMOTIVE, INC.. RISK FACTORS. •  failing to obtain a manufacturer's consent to the acquisition of one or more of its franchises or to renew the franchise or dealer agreement on terms acceptable to us; and. •  incorrectly valuing entities to be acquired or assessing markets entered.. We may not adequately anticipate all of the demands that growth will impose on our business.. We may not be able to execute our growth strategy without the costs escalating.. We have grown our business primarily through acquisitions in the past. We may not be able to consummate any future acquisitions at acceptable prices and terms or identify suitable candidates. In addition, increased competition for acquisition candidates could result in fewer acquisition opportunities for us and higher acquisition prices. The magnitude, timing, pricing and nature of future acquisitions or growth opportunities will depend upon various factors, including:. •  the availability of suitable acquisition candidates;. •  competition with other dealer groups or institutional investors for suitable acquisitions;. •  the negotiation of acceptable terms with the seller and with the manufacturer;. •  our financial capabilities and ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms;. •  our stock price; and. •  the availability of skilled employees to manage the acquired companies.. We may not be able to determine the actual financial condition of dealerships we acquire until after we complete the acquisition and take control of the dealerships.. The operating and financial condition of acquired businesses cannot be determined accurately until we assume control. Although we conduct what we believe to be a prudent level of due diligence regarding the operating and financial condition of the businesses we purchase, in light of the circumstances of each transaction, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding the actual operating condition of these businesses. Similarly, many of the dealerships we acquire, including some of our largest acquisitions, do not have financial statements audited or prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. We may not have an accurate understanding of the historical financial condition and performance of our acquired entities. Until we actually assume control of business assets and their operations, we may not be able to ascertain the actual value or understand the potential liabilities of the acquired entities and their operations.. Risks Related to the Automotive Retail Industry. Our facilities and operations are subject to extensive governmental laws and regulations. If we are found to be in violation of, or subject to liabilities under, any of these laws or regulations or if new laws or regulations are enacted that adversely affect our operations, then our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows and prospects could suffer.. The automotive retail industry, including our facilities and operations, is subject to a wide range of federal, state, and local laws and regulations, such as those relating to motor vehicle sales, retail installment sales, leasing, sales of finance, insurance and vehicle protection products, licensing, consumer protection, consumer privacy, employment practices, escheatment, anti-money laundering, environmental, vehicle emissions and fuel economy, and health and safety. With respect to motor vehicle sales, retail installment sales, leasing, and sales of finance, insurance and vehicle protection products at our stores, we are subject to various laws and regulations, the violation of which could subject us to consumer class action or other lawsuits or governmental investigations and adverse publicity, in addition to administrative, civil or criminal sanctions. With respect to employment practices, we are subject to various laws and regulations, including complex federal, state, and local wage and hour and anti-discrimination laws. We are also subject to lawsuits and governmental investigations alleging violations of these laws and regulations, including purported class action lawsuits, which could result in significant liability, fines and penalties. The violation of other laws and regulations to which we are subject also can result in administrative, civil or criminal sanctions against us, which may include a cease and desist order against the subject operations or even revocation or suspension of our license to operate the subject business, as well as significant liability, fines and penalties. We currently devote significant resources to comply with applicable federal, state and local regulation of health, safety, environmental, zoning and land use regulations, and we may need to spend additional time, effort and money to keep our operations and existing or acquired facilities in compliance. In addition, we may be subject to broad liabilities arising out of contamination at our currently and formerly owned or operated facilities, at locations to which hazardous substances were transported from such facilities, and at such locations related to entities formerly affiliated with us. Although for some such liabilities we believe we are entitled to indemnification from other entities, we cannot assure you that such entities will view their obligations as we do or will be able to. 16. SONIC AUTOMOTIVE, INC.. RISK FACTORS. satisfy them. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on our operations, business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows and prospects.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\"), which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the \"CFPB\"), a new independent federal agency funded by the U.S. Federal Reserve with broad regulatory powers and limited oversight from the U.S. Congress. Although automotive dealers are generally excluded, the Dodd-Frank Act has led to additional, indirect regulation of automotive dealers, in particular, their sale and marketing of finance and insurance products, through its regulation of automotive finance companies and other financial institutions. In March 2013, the CFPB issued supervisory guidance highlighting its concern that the practice of automotive dealers being compensated for arranging customer financing through discretionary markup of wholesale rates offered by financial institutions (\"dealer markup\") results in a significant risk of pricing disparity in violation of The Equal Credit Opportunity Act (the \"ECOA\"). The CFPB recommended that financial institutions under its jurisdiction take steps to ensure compliance with the ECOA, which may include imposing controls on dealer markup, monitoring and addressing the effects of dealer markup policies, and eliminating dealer discretion to markup buy rates and fairly compensating dealers using a different mechanism that does not result in disparate impact to certain groups of consumers. In addition, we believe that the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which was signed into law on March 23, 2010, has increased and will continue to increase our annual employee health care costs that we fund, and has also increased our cost of compliance and compliance risk related to offering health care benefits.. Furthermore, we expect that new laws and regulations, particularly at the federal level, may be enacted, which could also materially adversely impact our business. For example, the labor policy of the prior administration led to increased unionization efforts for U.S. companies, which could lead to higher labor costs for our Company, disrupt our store operations and adversely affect our results of operations.. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emission of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the vehicles we sell.. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has adopted rules under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act that require (1) a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles, (2) certain construction and operating permit reviews for greenhouse gas emissions from certain large stationary sources and (3) monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified sources on an annual basis. The adoption of any laws or regulations requiring significant increases in fuel economy requirements or new federal or state restrictions on emissions of greenhouse gases from our operations or on vehicles and automotive fuels in the United States could adversely affect demand for those vehicles and require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations.. Increasing competition among automotive retailers and the use of the internet reduces our profit margins on vehicle sales and related businesses.. Automobile retailing is a highly competitive business. Our competitors include publicly and privately owned dealerships, some of which are larger and have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Many of our competitors sell the same or similar makes of new and used vehicles that we offer in our markets at competitive prices. We do not have any cost advantage in purchasing new vehicles from manufacturers due to economies of scale or otherwise. We typically rely on advertising, merchandising, sales expertise, customer service reputation and dealership location to sell new vehicles. Our revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected if certain state dealer franchise laws are relaxed to permit manufacturers to enter the retail market directly.. Our F&I business and other related businesses, which have higher margins than sales of new and used vehicles, are subject to strong competition from various financial institutions and other third parties.. Moreover, customers are using the internet to compare pricing for vehicles and related F&I services, which may further reduce margins for new and used vehicles and profits for related F&I services. If internet new vehicle sales are allowed to be conducted without the involvement of franchised dealers, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, other dealership groups have aligned themselves with services offered on the internet or are investing heavily in the development of their own internet capabilities, which could materially adversely affect our business.. Our franchise and dealer agreements do not grant us the exclusive right to sell a manufacturer's product within a given geographic area. Our revenues or profitability could be materially adversely affected if any of our manufacturers award franchises to others in the same markets where we operate or if existing franchised dealers increase their market share in our markets.. 17. SONIC AUTOMOTIVE, INC.. RISK FACTORS. We may face increasingly significant competition as we strive to gain market share through acquisitions or otherwise. Our operating margins may decline over time as we expand into markets where we do not have a leading position.. The effect of companies entering into the automotive space may affect our ability to grow or maintain the business over the long-term.. Large and well-capitalized technology companies have continued to enter into the automotive space in recent years.  Companies such as Amazon, Apple, Google, Lyft, Tesla and Uber may challenge the existing automotive manufacturing, transportation and retail models.  Tesla has been challenging state dealer franchise laws in many states with mixed results, but its business model has been accepted by many consumers.  Although Tesla's participation in the competitive landscape has had minimal impact on the overall retail automotive space thus far, these other large technology-based companies may continue to change consumers' view on how automobiles should be manufactured, equipped, used and retailed in the future.  Because these companies have the ability to connect with each individual consumer easily through their technology platforms, we may ultimately be at a competitive disadvantage in marketing, financing, selling and servicing vehicles.  In addition, certain manufacturers have expressed interest in selling directly to customers.  The dealer's participation in that potential future transaction type is unclear and may negatively impact our operations and financial results.. Our dealers depend upon new vehicle sales and, therefore, their success depends in large part upon customer demand for the particular vehicles they carry.. The success of our dealerships depends in large part on the overall success of the vehicle lines they carry. New vehicle sales generate the majority of our total revenue and lead to sales of higher-margin products and services such as finance, insurance, vehicle protection products and other aftermarket products, and parts and service operations. Our new vehicle sales operations are comprised primarily of luxury and mid-line import brands, which exposes us to manufacturer concentration risks. Although our parts and service operations and used vehicle business may serve to offset some of this risk, changes in automobile manufacturers' vehicle models and customer demand for particular vehicles may have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business will be harmed if overall consumer demand suffers from a severe or sustained downturn.. Our business is heavily dependent on consumer demand and preferences. Retail vehicle sales are cyclical and historically have experienced periodic downturns characterized by oversupply and weak demand. These cycles are often dependent on economic conditions, consumer confidence, the level of discretionary personal income and credit availability. Deterioration in any of these conditions may have a material adverse effect on our retail business, particularly sales of new and used automobiles.. In addition, severe or sustained changes in gasoline prices may lead to a shift in consumer buying patterns. Availability of preferred models may not exist in sufficient quantities to satisfy consumer demand and allow our stores to meet sales expectations.. A decline of available financing in the lending market may adversely affect our vehicle sales volume.. A significant portion of vehicle buyers finance their purchases of automobiles. Sub-prime lenders have historically provided financing for consumers who, for a variety of reasons including poor credit histories and lack of down payment, do not have access to more traditional finance sources. In the event lenders tighten their credit standards or there is a decline in the availability of credit in the lending market, the ability of these consumers to purchase vehicles could be limited, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues and profitability.. Our business may be adversely affected by import product restrictions and foreign trade risks that may impair our ability to sell foreign vehicles profitably.. A significant portion of our new vehicle business involves the sale of vehicles, parts or vehicles composed of parts that are manufactured outside the United States. As a result, our operations are subject to risks of importing merchandise, including fluctuations in the relative values of currencies, import duties or tariffs, exchange controls, trade restrictions, work stoppages and general political and socio-economic conditions in other countries. The United States or the countries from which our products are imported may, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions, or adjust presently prevailing quotas, duties or tariffs, which may affect our operations and our ability to purchase imported vehicles and/or parts at reasonable prices.. Natural disasters and adverse weather events can disrupt our business.. Our dealerships are concentrated in states and regions in the United States, including California, Colorado, Florida and Texas, in which actual or threatened natural disasters and severe weather events (such as hail storms, floods, hurricanes, earthquakes, fires and landslides) may disrupt our store operations, which may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and. 18. SONIC AUTOMOTIVE, INC.. RISK FACTORS. cash flows. In addition to business interruption, the automotive retailing business is subject to substantial risk of property loss due to the significant concentration of property values at store locations. Although we have substantial insurance, subject to certain deductibles, limitations and exclusions, we may be exposed to uninsured or underinsured losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. In addition, the automotive manufacturing supply chain spans the globe. As such, supply chain disruptions resulting from natural disasters and adverse weather events may affect the flow of inventory or parts to us or our manufacturing partners. Such disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. We have invested in internal and external business applications to execute our strategy of employing technology to benefit our business. In the ordinary course of business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees. Although we have attempted to mitigate the cyber-security risk of both our internal and outsourced functions by implementing various cyber-security controls, we remain subject to cyber-security risks.. These cyber-security risks include:. •  vulnerability to cyber-attack of our internal or externally hosted business applications;. •  interruption of service or access to systems may affect our ability to deliver vehicles or complete transactions with customers;. •  unauthorized access or theft of customer or employee personal confidential information, including financial information, or strategically sensitive data;. •  disruption of communications (both internally and externally) that may affect the quality of information used to make informed business decisions; and. •  damage to our reputation as a result of a breach in security that could affect the financial security of our customers.. Moreover, significant technology-related business functions of ours are outsourced, including:. •  payroll and human resources management systems, including expense reimbursement management;. •  customer relationship management, ecommerce hosting and marketing campaign management;. •  dealer management, inventory management and financial reporting systems;. •  consumer credit application management, fund transfers/ACH/online banking; and. •  IP telephony and WAN/LAN administration (switch & router configuration).. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breaches due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties or damage to our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our services, which could materially adversely affect our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition.. General Risks Related to Investing in Our Securities. Concentration of voting power and anti-takeover provisions of our charter, our bylaws, Delaware law and our franchise and dealer agreements may reduce the likelihood of a potential change of control from a third party. At the same time, such voting power concentration also could increase the likelihood of a change of control notwithstanding other factors.. Our common stock is divided into two classes with different voting rights. This dual class stock ownership allows the present holders of the Class B common stock to control us. Holders of Class A common stock have one vote per share on all matters. Holders of Class B common stock have 10 votes per share on all matters, except that they have only one vote per share on any transaction. 19. SONIC AUTOMOTIVE, INC.. RISK FACTORS. proposed or approved by the Board of Directors or a Class B common stockholder or otherwise benefiting the Class B common stockholders constituting a:. •  \"going private\" transaction;. •  disposition of substantially all of our assets;. •  transfer resulting in a change in the nature of our business; or. •  merger or consolidation in which current holders of common stock would own less than 50% of the common stock following such transaction.. The holders of Class B common stock (which include Mr. O. Bruton Smith, Sonic's Executive Chairman and Director, his family members and entities they control) currently hold less than a majority of our outstanding common stock, but a majority of our voting power. As a result, the holders of Class B common stock may be able to control fundamental corporate matters and transactions, subject to the above limitations. The concentration of voting power may also discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of us from a third party even if the action was favored by holders of Class A common stock. In addition, a sale or transfer of shares by one or more of the holders of Class B common stock could result in a change of control or put downward pressure on the market price of our Class A common stock. The perception among the public that these sales or transfers will occur could also contribute to a decline in the market price of our Class A common stock.. Our charter and bylaws make it more difficult for our stockholders to take corporate actions at stockholders' meetings. In addition, stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units granted under the Sonic Automotive, Inc. 2012 Stock Incentive Plan or the Sonic Automotive, Inc. 2012 Formula Restricted Stock and Deferral Plan for Non-Employee Directors and other obligations become immediately exercisable or automatically vest upon a change in control. Delaware law also makes it difficult for stockholders who have recently acquired a large interest in a company to consummate a business combination transaction with the company against its directors' wishes. Finally, restrictions imposed by our franchise and dealer agreements may impede or prevent any potential takeover bid. Our franchise and dealer agreements allow the manufacturers the right to terminate the agreements upon a change of control of our Company and impose restrictions upon the transferability of any significant percentage of our stock to any one person or entity that may be unqualified, as defined by the manufacturer, to own one of its dealerships. The inability of a person or entity to qualify with one or more of our manufacturers may prevent or seriously impede a potential takeover bid. In addition, there may be provisions of our lending arrangements that create an event of default upon a change in control. These agreements, corporate governance documents and laws may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control or preventing stockholders from realizing a premium on the sale of their shares if we were acquired.. The outcome of legal and administrative proceedings we are or may become involved in could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects.. We are involved, and expect to continue to be involved, in numerous legal and administrative proceedings arising out of the conduct of our business, including regulatory investigations and private civil actions brought by plaintiffs purporting to represent a potential class or for which a class has been certified.. Although we vigorously defend ourselves in all legal and administrative proceedings, the outcomes of pending and future proceedings arising out of the conduct of our business, including litigation with customers, employment-related lawsuits, contractual disputes, class actions, purported class actions and actions brought by governmental authorities, cannot be predicted with certainty. An unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects.. Our business may be adversely affected by claims alleging violations of laws and regulations in our advertising, sales and finance and insurance activities.. Our business is highly regulated. In the past several years, private plaintiffs and state attorneys general have increased their scrutiny of advertising, sales and finance and insurance activities in the sale and leasing of motor vehicles. The conduct of our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding unfair, deceptive and/or fraudulent trade practices (including advertising, marketing, sales, insurance, repair and promotion practices), truth-in-lending, consumer leasing, fair credit practices, equal credit opportunity, privacy, insurance, motor vehicle finance, installment finance, closed-end credit, usury and other installment sales. Claims arising out of actual or alleged violations of law may be asserted against us or any of our dealers by individuals, either individually or through class actions, or by governmental entities in civil or criminal investigations and proceedings. Such actions may expose us to substantial monetary damages and legal defense costs, injunctive relief and criminal and. 20. SONIC AUTOMOTIVE, INC.. RISK FACTORS. civil fines and penalties, including suspension or revocation of our licenses and franchise or dealer agreements to conduct dealership operations.. Our business may be adversely affected by unfavorable conditions in our local markets, even if those conditions are not prominent nationally.. Our performance is subject to local economic, competitive, weather and other conditions prevailing in geographic areas where we operate. We may not be able to expand geographically and any geographic expansion may not adequately insulate us from the adverse effects of local or regional economic conditions. In addition, due to the provisions and terms contained in our franchise or dealer agreements or operating lease agreements, we may not be able to relocate a dealership operation to a more favorable location without incurring significant costs or penalties.. The loss of key personnel and limited management and personnel resources could adversely affect our operations and growth.. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our management team, particularly our senior management, and service and sales personnel. Additionally, franchise or dealer agreements may require the prior approval of the applicable manufacturer before any change is made in dealership general managers. We do not have employment agreements with most members of our senior management team, our dealership managers and other key dealership personnel. Consequently, the loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. In addition, as we expand, we may need to hire additional managers. The market for qualified employees in the industry and in the regions in which we operate, particularly for general managers and sales and service personnel, is highly competitive and may subject us to increased labor costs during periods of low unemployment. The loss of the services of key employees or the inability to attract additional qualified managers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, the lack of qualified management or employees employed by potential acquisition candidates may limit our ability to consummate future acquisitions.. Potential conflicts of interest between us and our officers or directors could adversely affect our future performance.. Mr. O. Bruton Smith serves as the Executive Chairman of SMI. Accordingly, we compete with SMI for the management time of Mr. Smith.. We have in the past and will likely in the future enter into transactions with Mr. Smith, entities controlled by Mr. Smith and his family or our other affiliates. We believe that all of our existing arrangements with affiliates are as favorable to us as if the arrangements were negotiated between unaffiliated parties, although the majority of these transactions have neither been verified by third parties in that regard nor are likely to be so verified in the future. Potential conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us and our officers or directors in the enforcement, amendment or termination of arrangements existing between them.. We may be subject to substantial withdrawal liability assessments in the future related to a multiemployer pension plan to which certain of our dealerships make contributions pursuant to collective bargaining agreements.. Six of our dealership subsidiaries in northern California currently make fixed-dollar contributions to the Automotive Industries Pension Plan (the \"AI Pension Plan\") pursuant to collective bargaining agreements between our subsidiaries and the International Association of Machinists (the \"IAM\") and the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (the \"IBT\"). The AI Pension Plan is a \"multiemployer plan\" as defined under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and our six dealership subsidiaries are among approximately 201 employers that are obligated to make contributions to the AI Pension Plan pursuant to collective bargaining agreements with the IAM, the IBT and other unions. In March 2008, the AI Pension Plan's actuary, in accordance with the requirements of the federal Pension Protection Act of 2006, issued a certification that the AI Pension Plan was in critical status effective with the plan year commencing January 1, 2008. In conjunction with the AI Pension Plan's critical status, the Board of Trustees of the AI Pension Plan implemented a requirement on all participating employers to increase employer contributions to the AI Pension Plan for a seven-year period commencing in 2013. As of April 2015, the AI Pension Plan's actuary certified that the AI Pension Plan remained in critical status for the plan year commencing January 1, 2015. According to publicly available information, in September 2016, the AI Pension Plan made a formal application for approval of suspension of benefits with the U.S. Treasury Department, which, if approved by the U.S. Treasury Department, would have implemented a benefit reduction effective July 1, 2017 for participants in the AI Pension Plan. The filing included an Actuarial Certification of Plan Status as of January 1, 2016 that the AI Pension Plan previously filed with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service on March 30, 2016, which reported that the AI Pension Plan was in critical and declining status as of January 1, 2016 and further notified that the AI Pension Plan is making the scheduled progress in meeting the requirements of the plan's previously-adopted rehabilitation plan. The September 2016 filing with the U.S. Treasury Department also included an Actuarial Certification of Plan Solvency as of July 1, 2016 with the actuarial firm's projection that the proposed suspensions of benefits are reasonably estimated to enable the AI Pension Plan to avoid. 21. SONIC AUTOMOTIVE, INC.. RISK FACTORS. insolvency assuming the proposed suspensions of benefits continue indefinitely. In May 2017, the U.S. Treasury Department denied the application to suspend benefits but noted that it remains willing to discuss the issues presented in the September 2016 formal application for suspension of benefits. Under applicable federal law, any employer contributing to a multiemployer pension plan that completely ceases participating in the plan while the plan is underfunded is subject to payment of such employer's assessed share of the aggregate unfunded vested benefits of the plan. In certain circumstances, an employer can be assessed withdrawal liability for a partial withdrawal from a multiemployer pension plan. If any of these adverse events were to occur in the future, it could result in a substantial withdrawal liability assessment that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Tax positions may exist related to our tax filings that could be challenged by governmental agencies and result in higher income tax expenses and affect our overall liquidity if we are unable to successfully defend these tax positions.. We are subject to audits by federal and state governmental income tax agencies on a continual basis.  During the course of those audits, the agencies may disagree or challenge tax positions taken on tax returns filed for Sonic and its subsidiaries.  As a result of these audits, the agencies may issue assessments and penalties based on their understanding of the underlying facts and circumstances.   In the event, we are not able to arrive at an agreeable resolution, we may be forced to litigate these matters.  If we are unsuccessful in litigation, our results of operations and financial position may be negatively impacted.. A change in historical experience and/or assumptions used to estimate reserves could have a material impact on our earnings.. As described in \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Use of Estimates and Critical Accounting Policies,\" management relies on estimates in various areas of accounting and financial reporting. For example, our estimates for finance, insurance and service contracts and insurance reserves are based on historical experience and assumptions. Differences between actual results and our historical experiences and/or our assumptions could have a material impact on our earnings in the period of the change and in periods subsequent to the change.. Our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective.. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement or difficulty in implementing required new or improved controls, our business and results of operations could be harmed, the results of operations we report could be subject to adjustments, we could incur remediation costs, we could fail to be able to provide reasonable assurance as to our financial results or the effectiveness of our internal controls, or fail to meet our reporting obligations under SEC regulations and the terms of our debt agreements on a timely basis and there could be a material adverse effect on the price of our Class A common stock.. Impairment of our goodwill could have a material adverse impact on our earnings.. Pursuant to applicable accounting pronouncements, we evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. We describe the process for testing goodwill more thoroughly in \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Use of Estimates and Critical Accounting Policies.\" If we determine that the amount of our goodwill is impaired at any point in time, we are required to reduce goodwill on our balance sheet. If goodwill is impaired based on a future impairment test, we will be required to record a significant non-cash impairment charge that may also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the period in which the impairment of goodwill occurs. As of December 31, 2017, our balance sheet reflected a carrying amount of approximately $525.8 million in goodwill.. 22. SONIC AUTOMOTIVE, INC."
