[1] "ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS. Before you make an investment decision with respect to our common stock, you should carefully consider all of the information included in this Form 10-K and our subsequent periodic filings with the SEC. In particular, you should carefully consider the risk factors described below and the risks and uncertainties related to \"Forward Looking Statements,\" any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward looking statements are made in this annual report. The following risk factors, which are not ranked in any particular order, should be read in conjunction with the balance of this annual report, including the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes.. The global economy, the financial markets and political conditions of various countries may negatively affect our business and clients, as well as the supply of and demand for works of art.. The global art market is influenced over time by the overall strength and stability of the global economy and the financial markets of various countries, although this correlation may not be immediately evident. In addition, global political conditions and world events may affect our business through their effect on the economies of various countries, as well as on the willingness of potential buyers and sellers to purchase and sell art in the wake of economic uncertainty. Our business can be particularly influenced by the economies, financial markets and political conditions of the U.S., the U.K., China, and the other major countries or territories of Europe and Asia (including the Middle East). Accordingly, weakness in those economies and financial markets can adversely affect the supply of and demand for works of art and our business. Furthermore, global political conditions may also influence the enactment of legislation that could adversely impact our business.. Competition in the global art market is intense and may adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. We compete with other auctioneers and art dealers to obtain valuable consignments to offer for sale either at auction or through private sale. The level of competition is intense and can adversely impact our ability to obtain valuable consignments for sale, as well as the commission margins achieved on such consignments.. 8. We cannot be assured of the amount and quality of property consigned for sale, which may cause significant variability in our results of operations.. The amount and quality of property consigned for sale is influenced by a number of factors not within our control. Many major consignments, and specifically single-owner sale consignments, become available only as a result of the death or financial or marital difficulties of the owner, all of which are unpredictable and may cause significant variability in our results of operations from period to period.. The demand for art is unpredictable, which may cause significant variability in our results of operations.. The demand for art is influenced not only by overall economic conditions, but also by changing trends in the art market as to which collecting categories and artists are most sought after and by the collecting preferences of individual collectors. These conditions and trends are difficult to predict and may adversely impact our ability to obtain and sell consigned property, potentially causing significant variability in our results of operations from period to period.. We rely on a select group of clients who make a significant contribution to our revenues, profitability, and operating cash flows.. Sotheby's is a global art business that caters to a select group of the world's most discerning art collectors. Accordingly, our revenues, profitability, and operating cash flows are highly dependent upon our ability to develop and maintain relationships with these clients, as well as their financial strength.. Tax matters may cause significant variability in our results of operations.. We operate in many tax jurisdictions throughout the world, and the provision for income taxes involves a significant amount of judgment regarding the interpretation of relevant facts and laws in these jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate and recorded tax balances can change significantly between periods due to a number of complex factors including, but not limited to: (i) our projected levels of taxable income; (ii) changes in the jurisdictional mix of our forecasted and/or actual pre-tax income; (iii) increases or decreases to valuation allowances recorded against deferred tax assets; (iv) tax audits conducted by various tax authorities; (v) adjustments to income taxes upon the finalization of income tax returns; (vi) the ability to claim foreign tax credits; and (vii) tax planning strategies. Additionally, our effective income tax rate could be impacted by future changes in applicable laws, including the European Commission's investigations on illegal state aid and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development project on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, which may result in changes to long-standing tax principles. Given the unpredictability of these possible changes and their potential interdependency, it is very difficult to assess whether the overall effect of such potential tax changes would be cumulatively positive or negative for our earnings and cash flow, but such changes could adversely impact our financial results.. Our estimates of the effects of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on our business and financial statements require the exercise of significant judgment and are subject to change as regulations and guidance evolve.. The U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Act\"), which was enacted into law on December 22, 2017, significantly changes U.S. income tax law and includes numerous provisions that affect our business. Our compliance with the Act may require the collection of information that we do not regularly produce, the use of estimates in our financial statements, and the exercise of significant judgment in accounting for the provision for income taxes. As regulations and guidance evolve with respect to the Act, and as we gather more information and perform more analysis, our results may differ from previous estimates and may materially affect our financial position. In addition, it is uncertain how various states will respond to the newly enacted federal tax law. See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the impact of the Act on our financial statements.. 9. Our clients reside in various tax jurisdictions throughout the world and the application of tax laws or tax reporting obligations in these jurisdictions, particularly as they relate to sales, use, value-added and other indirect taxes, is complex and requires a significant amount of judgment, exposing us to claims from tax authorities.. Our clients reside in various tax jurisdictions throughout the world. To the extent that there are changes to tax laws or tax reporting obligations in any of these jurisdictions, such changes could adversely impact the ability and/or willingness of our clients to purchase or sell works of art. Additionally, we are subject to laws and regulations in many countries involving sales, use, value-added and other indirect taxes which are assessed by various governmental authorities and imposed on certain revenue-producing transactions between us and our clients. The application of these laws and regulations to our unique business and global client base, and the estimation of any related liabilities is complex and requires a significant amount of judgment. We are generally not responsible for these indirect tax liabilities unless we fail to collect the correct amount of sales, use, value-added, or other indirect taxes. Failure to collect the correct amount of indirect tax on a transaction may expose us to claims from tax authorities.. The loss of key personnel could adversely impact our ability to compete.. We are largely a service business in which the ability of our employees to develop and maintain relationships with potential sellers and buyers of works of art is essential to our success. Moreover, our business is unique, making it important to retain key specialists and members of management. Accordingly, our business is highly dependent upon our success in attracting and retaining qualified personnel.. Our investments in new businesses and technologies involve significant risks and uncertainties and may not succeed.. We have invested in new businesses and technologies to implement our strategic priorities. These investments involve significant risks and uncertainties, and may adversely impact our short-term operating results and liquidity, and if they are unsuccessful, may expose us to the loss of clients and the impairment of assets. Our future operating results are dependent, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate and utilize these new businesses and technologies.. Government laws and regulations may restrict or limit our business or impact the value of our real estate assets.. Many of our activities are subject to laws and regulations including, but not limited to, import and export regulations, cultural property regulations, data protection and privacy laws, anti-money laundering laws, antitrust laws, copyright and resale royalty laws, laws and regulations involving sales, use, value-added and other indirect taxes, and regulations related to the use of real estate. In addition, we are subject to local auction regulations, such as New York City Auction Regulations Subchapter M of Title 6 § 2-121-2-125, et. seq. Such regulations currently do not impose a material impediment to our business, but do affect the art market generally. A material adverse change in such regulations, such as the American Royalties Too Act of 2014 introduced in the U.S. Congress, which would impose a 5% resale royalty (with a cap of $35,000) on sales of art through large auction houses, could affect our business. Additionally, export and import laws and cultural property ownership laws could affect the availability of certain kinds of property for sale at our principal auction locations, increase the cost of moving property to such locations, or expose us to legal claims or government inquiries.. Our ability to collect auction receivables may be adversely impacted by buyers from emerging markets, as well as by the banking and foreign currency laws and regulations and judicial systems of the countries in which we operate and in which our clients reside.. We operate in 40 countries and have a worldwide client base that has grown in recent years due in part to an increase in the activity of buyers from emerging markets, in particular, China. The collection of auction receivables related to buyers from emerging markets may be adversely impacted by the buyer's lack of familiarity with the auction process and the buyer's financial condition. Our ability to collect auction receivables may also be adversely impacted by the banking and foreign currency laws and regulations regarding the movement of funds out of certain countries, as well as by our ability to enforce our rights as a creditor in jurisdictions where the applicable laws and regulations may be less defined, particularly in emerging markets.. 10. Our capital allocation and financial policies may impact our liquidity, financial condition, market capitalization and business, and our ongoing ability to return capital to shareholders (and the size and timing of such return) is subject to ongoing business variables.. The actions taken in reference to our capital allocation and financial policies may impact our current and future liquidity, financial condition, market capitalization, and business. In addition, the amount and timing of any potential return of capital to shareholders depends on various factors, including the amount of excess cash generated by our business in the future, the ability to finance the SFS loan portfolio, the business initiatives contemplated and implemented by management, and the amount of capital that may be required to support our future liquidity needs, among other factors.. Foreign currency exchange rate movements can significantly impact our results of operations and financial condition.. We have operations throughout the world. Approximately 61% of our total revenues were earned outside of the U.S. in 2017, including 23% of our total revenues earned in the U.K. Additionally, we have significant assets and liabilities denominated in the Pound Sterling, the Euro, and the Swiss Franc. Revenues, expenses, gains, and losses recorded in foreign currencies are translated using the monthly average exchange rates prevailing during the period in which they are recognized. Assets and liabilities recorded in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly for the Pound Sterling, the Euro, and the Swiss Franc, can significantly impact our results of operations and financial condition.. Subject to management approval under our internal corporate governance policy, we may pay the net sale proceeds to the consignor before payment is collected from the buyer and/or we may allow the buyer to take possession of purchased property before making payment. In these situations, we are exposed to losses in the event the buyer does not make payment.. Under the standard terms and conditions of our auction and private sales, we are not obligated to pay the consignor for property that has not been paid for by the buyer. However, in certain instances and subject to management approval under our internal corporate governance policy, we may pay the net sale proceeds to the consignor before payment is collected from the buyer while we retain possession of the property. In these situations, if the buyer does not make payment, we take title to the property, but could be exposed to losses if the value of the property subsequently declines. In certain other situations and subject to management approval under our internal corporate governance policy, we may allow the buyer to take possession of the purchased property before making payment. In these situations, we are liable to the seller for the net sale proceeds whether or not the buyer makes payment and would incur a loss in the event of buyer default. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information about auction and private sale receivables.. We could be exposed to losses in the event of title or authenticity claims.. The assessment of property offered for auction or private sale can involve potential claims regarding title and authenticity. The items we sell may be subject to statutory warranties as to title and to a limited guarantee as to authenticity under the Conditions of Sale and Terms of Guarantee that are published in our auction sale catalogues and the terms stated in, and the laws applicable to, agreements governing private sale transactions. Our authentication of the items we offer is based on scholarship and research, but necessarily requires a degree of judgment from our specialists. In the event of a title or authenticity claim against us, we may have recourse against the seller of the property and may have the benefit of insurance, but a claim could nevertheless expose us to losses and to reputational risk.. Auction guarantees create the risk of loss resulting from the potential inaccurate valuation of art.. The market for fine art, decorative art, and jewelry is not a highly liquid trading market and, as a result, the valuation of these items is inherently subjective. Accordingly, we are at risk with respect to our ability to estimate the likely selling prices of property offered with auction guarantees. If our judgments about the likely selling prices of property offered with auction guarantees prove to be inaccurate, there could be a significant adverse impact on our results, financial condition, and liquidity. See Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to auction guarantees.. We could be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by our counterparties in auction guarantee risk and reward sharing arrangements.. In certain situations, we reduce our financial exposure under auction guarantees through risk and reward sharing arrangements. Our counterparties to these risk and reward sharing arrangements are typically major international art dealers or major art collectors. We could be exposed to losses in the event any of these counterparties do not perform according to the terms of these contractual arrangements. See Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to auction guarantees.. 11. Demand for art-related financing is unpredictable, which may cause variability in the operating results of SFS.. Our business is, in part, dependent on the demand for art-related financing, which can be significantly influenced by overall economic conditions and by the often unpredictable financial requirements of owners of major art collections. Accordingly, the operating results of SFS are subject to variability from period to period.. Our ability to realize proceeds from the sale of collateral for SFS loans may be delayed or limited.. In situations when there are competing claims on the collateral for SFS loans and/or when a borrower becomes subject to bankruptcy or insolvency laws, our ability to realize proceeds from the sale of its collateral may be limited or delayed.. The value of art held in inventory and art pledged as collateral for SFS loans is subjective and often fluctuates, exposing us to losses and significant variability in our results of operations.. The art market is not a highly liquid trading market. As a result, the valuation of art is inherently subjective and its realizable value often fluctuates over time. Accordingly, we are at risk both as to the realizable value of the property held in inventory and as to the realizable value of the property pledged as collateral for SFS loans. If there is evidence that the estimated realizable value of a specific item held in inventory is less than its carrying value, a loss is recorded to reflect our revised estimate of realizable value. In addition, if the estimated realizable value of the property pledged as collateral for an SFS loan is less than the corresponding loan balance, we assess whether it is necessary to record a loss to reduce the carrying value of the loan, after taking into account the ability of the borrower to repay any shortfall between the value of the collateral and the amount of the loan. In estimating the realizable value of art held in inventory and art pledged as collateral for SFS loans, we consider the following complex array of factors: (i) whether the property is expected to be offered at auction or sold privately, and the timing of any such sale; (ii) the supply and demand for the property, taking into account current art market conditions, as well as changing trends as to which collecting categories and artists are most sought after; (iii) recent sale prices achieved for comparable items within a particular collecting category and/or by a particular artist, (iv) the state of the global economy and financial markets; and (v) our intent and ability to hold the property in order to maximize its realizable value. Due to the inherent subjectivity involved in estimating the realizable value of art held in inventory and art pledged as collateral for SFS loans, our estimates of realizable value may prove, with the benefit of hindsight, to be different than the amount ultimately realized upon sale. Accordingly, changes in the valuation of art held in inventory and art pledged as collateral for SFS loans expose us to variability in our results of operations from period to period.. The low rate of historic losses on the SFS loan portfolio may not be indicative of future loan loss experience.. We have historically incurred minimal losses on the SFS loan portfolio. However, despite our stringent loan underwriting standards, our previous loan loss experience may not be indicative of the future performance of the loan portfolio.. The collateral supporting the SFS loan portfolio is concentrated within certain collecting categories. A material decline in these markets could impair our ability to collect the principal and interest owed on certain loans and could require repayments of borrowings on such affected loans under our revolving credit facility.. The collateral supporting the SFS loan portfolio is concentrated within certain collecting categories. Although we believe the SFS loan portfolio is sufficiently collateralized due to its current aggregate loan-to-value ratio of 43%, a material decline in these markets could impair our ability to collect the principal and interest owed on certain loans. Additionally, our revolving credit facility permits borrowings, if any, up to 85% of the portion of any SFS loan that does not exceed a 60% loan-to-value ratio. A material decline in the value of SFS loan collateral could result in an increase in the loan-to-value ratio above 60% for individual loans and could require repayment of a portion of the borrowings associated with such loans.. We could be exposed to losses and/or reputational harm as a result of various claims and lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of our business.. We become involved in various legal proceedings, lawsuits, and other claims incidental to the ordinary course of our business. We are required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes in these matters, as well as potential ranges of probable or reasonably possible losses. A determination of the amount of losses, if any, to be recorded or disclosed as a result of these contingencies is based on a careful analysis of each individual exposure with, in some cases, the assistance of outside legal counsel. The amount of losses recorded or disclosed for such contingencies may change in the future due to new developments in each matter or a change in settlement strategy.. 12. We could be exposed to reputational harm as a result of wrongful actions by certain third parties.. We are involved in various business arrangements and ventures with unaffiliated third parties. Wrongful actions by such parties could harm our brand and reputation.. A breach of the security measures protecting our global network of information systems and those of certain third-party service providers utilized by Sotheby's could adversely impact our operations, reputation and brand.. The protection of client, employee and company data is extremely important to us. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is becoming increasingly demanding and frequently changing in the jurisdictions in which we do business. Clients and employees have expectations that we will protect their information from cyber-attacks and other security breaches. We have implemented systems and processes that are designed to protect personal and company information and to prevent data losses, however, these measures cannot provide absolute security, and our systems may be vulnerable to cyber-security breaches such as viruses, hacking, and similar disruptions from unauthorized intrusions. In addition, we are dependent on a global network of information systems to conduct our business and are committed to maintaining a strong infrastructure to secure these systems. As part of our information systems infrastructure, we rely increasingly upon third-party service providers to perform services related to our live auction bidding platform, retail wine and other e-commerce, video broadcasting, website content distribution, marketing, and to store, process and transmit information including client, employee and company information. Any failure on our part or by these third-party service providers to maintain the security of our confidential data and our client and employee personal information could result in business disruption, damage to reputation, financial obligations, lawsuits, sizable fines and costs, and loss of employee and client confidence in Sotheby's, and thus could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition, and adversely affect our results of operations. A significant security breach could require future expenditures to implement additional security measures to protect against new privacy threats or to comply with state, federal and international laws aimed at addressing those threats.. Due to the nature of our business, valuable works of art are exhibited and stored at our facilities around the world. Such works of art could be subject to damage or theft, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, reputation and brand.. Valuable works of art are exhibited and stored at our facilities around the world. Although we maintain state of the art security measures at our premises, valuable artworks may be subject to damage or theft. The damage or theft of valuable property despite these security measures could have a material adverse impact on our business and reputation.. Insurance coverage for artwork may become more difficult to obtain or the terms of such coverage may become less favorable, exposing us to losses resulting from the damage or loss of artwork in our possession.. We maintain insurance coverage for the works of art we own, works of art consigned by clients, and all other property that may be in our custody, which are exhibited and stored at our facilities around the world. An inability to adequately insure such works of art due to limited capacity of the global art insurance market, or the inability to secure coverage on acceptable terms, could, in the future, have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Our business continuity plans may not be effective in addressing the impact of unexpected events that could impact our business.. Our inability to successfully implement our business continuity plans in the wake of an unexpected event, such as an act of God or a terrorist attack occurring in or near one of our major selling and/or sourcing offices and/or any other unexpected event, could disrupt our ability to operate and adversely impact our operations.. Future costs and obligations related to our U.K. Pension Plan are dependent on unpredictable factors, which may cause variability in our employee benefit costs.. Future costs and obligations related to our defined benefit pension plan in the U.K. are heavily influenced by changes in interest rates, investment performance in the debt and equity markets, changes in statutory requirements in the U.K., and actuarial assumptions, each of which is unpredictable and may cause variability in our employee benefit costs. See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to our defined benefit pension plan in the U.K."
