[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. SJI and its subsidiaries, including SJG, operate in an environment that involves risks, many of which are beyond our control. SJI has identified the following risk factors that could cause SJI's operating results and financial condition to be materially adversely affected. In addition, new risks may emerge at any time, and SJI cannot predict those risks or the extent to which they may affect SJI's businesses or financial performance. To the extent such risk factors may affect SJI's utility business, SJG, such risk factors may also affect SJG's business or performance.. • SJI is a holding company and its assets consist primarily of investments in subsidiaries. Should SJI's subsidiaries be unable to pay dividends or make other payments to SJI for financial, regulatory, legal or other reasons, SJI's ability to pay dividends on its common stock could be limited. SJI's stock price could be adversely affected as a result.. • SJI's business activities, including those of SJG, are concentrated in southern New Jersey. Changes in the economies of southern New Jersey and surrounding regions could negatively impact the growth opportunities available to SJI and the financial condition of the customers and prospects of SJI and SJG.. • Changes in the regulatory environment or unfavorable rate regulation at its utility may have an unfavorable impact on SJI's and SJG's financial performance or condition.  SJG is regulated by the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (BPU) which has authority over many of the activities of the utility business including, but not limited to, the rates it charges to its customers, the amount and type of securities it can issue, the nature of investments it can make, the nature and quality of services it provides, safety standards and other matters. The extent to which the actions of regulatory commissions restrict or delay SJG's ability to earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital and/or fully recover operating costs may adversely affect SJI's and SJG's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. • SJI and SJG may not be able to respond effectively to competition, which may negatively impact their financial performance or condition. Regulatory initiatives may provide or enhance opportunities for competitors that could reduce utility income obtained from existing or prospective customers. Also, competitors in all of SJI's business lines may be able to provide superior or less costly products or services based upon currently available or newly developed technologies.. • Warm weather, high commodity costs, or customer conservation initiatives could result in reduced demand for some of SJI's and SJG's energy products and services. SJG currently has a conservation incentive program clause that protects its revenues and gross margin against usage that is lower than a set level. Should this clause be terminated without replacement, lower customer energy utilization levels would likely reduce SJI's and SJG's net income.  Further, during periods of warmer temperatures, demand and volatility in the natural gas market could decrease, which would negatively impact their financial results.. • High natural gas prices could cause more of SJI's and SJG's receivables to be uncollectible. Higher levels of uncollectibles from either residential or commercial customers would negatively impact SJI's and SJG's income and could result in higher working capital requirements.. • SJI's and SJG's net income could decrease if it is required to incur additional costs to comply with new governmental safety, health or environmental legislation. SJI and SJG are subject to extensive and changing federal and state laws and regulations that impact many aspects of its business; including the storage, transportation and distribution of natural gas, as well as the remediation of environmental contamination at former manufactured gas plant facilities.. 13. South Jersey Industries, Inc."
