[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Every investor or potential investor in Southern Copper Corporation should carefully consider the following risk factors.. Financial risks. Our financial performance is highly dependent on the price of copper and the other metals we produce.. Our financial performance is significantly affected by the market prices of the metals that we produce, particularly the market prices of copper, molybdenum, zinc and silver. Historically, these prices have been subject to wide fluctuations and are affected by numerous factors out of our control, including international economic and political conditions, levels of supply and demand, the availability and costs of substitutes, inventory levels maintained by users, actions of participants in the commodities markets and currency exchange rates. In addition, the market prices of copper and certain other metals have on occasion been subject to rapid short-term changes.. In the last three years, approximately 80% of our revenues came from the sale of copper, 5% came from molybdenum and 9% came from silver and zinc. Please see the distribution of our revenues per product on Item 7 \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" caption \"Results of operations - net sales\" on page 80.. See also historical average price of our products on Item 1 Business caption \"Metals prices\".. We cannot predict whether metals prices will rise or fall in the future. Future declines in metals prices, and in particular copper, will have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In very adverse market conditions, we might consider curtailing or modifying some of our mining and processing operations.. Our business requires levels of capital investments which we may not be able to maintain.. Our business is capital intensive. Specifically, the exploration and exploitation of copper and other metal reserves, mining, smelting and refining costs, the maintenance of machinery and equipment and compliance with laws and regulations require significant capital investments. We must continue to invest capital to maintain or increase the amount of copper reserves that we exploit and the amount of copper and other metals we produce. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our production levels to generate sufficient cash, or that we have access to sufficient financing to continue our exploration, exploitation and refining activities at or above present levels.. Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness and the indebtedness of our Minera Mexico subsidiary may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies.. Our financing instruments and those of our Minera Mexico subsidiary include financial and other restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our and Minera Mexico's abilities to incur additional debt and sell assets. If either we or our Minera Mexico subsidiary do not comply with these obligations, we could be in default under the applicable agreements which, if not addressed or waived, could require repayment of the indebtedness immediately. Our Minera Mexico subsidiary is further limited by the terms of its outstanding notes, which also restrict the Company's applicable incurrence of debt and liens. In addition, future credit facilities may contain limitations on our incurrence of additional debt and liens, on our ability to dispose of assets, or on our ability to pay dividends to our common stockholders.. 13. Table of Contents. We may not pay a significant amount of our net income as cash dividends on our common stock in the future.. We distributed a significant amount of our net income as dividends since 1996. Our dividend practice is subject to change at the discretion of our Board of Directors at any time. The amount that we pay in dividends is subject to a number of factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, tax considerations, future prospects, legal restrictions, contractual restrictions in credit agreements, limitations imposed by the government of Peru, Mexico or other countries where we have significant operations and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. In light of our capital investment program and global economic conditions, it is possible that future dividend distributions will be reduced from the levels of recent years.. Our ability to recognize the benefits of deferred tax assets is dependent on future cash flows and taxable income.. Through 2017 the Company recognized the expected future tax benefit from deferred tax assets when the tax benefit was considered to be more likely than not of being realized, otherwise, a valuation allowance was applied against deferred tax assets. Assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets requires management to make significant estimates related to expectations of future taxable income and existing tax laws.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (\"the Act\") was enacted into U.S. tax law on December 22, 2017 and contains many significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws. The Company also adopted SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 (\"SAB 118\"). Accordingly, the accounting for the effect of the Act is based on the Company's best estimate, which may require adjustment. However, the Company was able to make reasonable estimates of certain effects and therefore, recorded a provisional $785.9 million non-cash tax expense for the estimated effects of the Act. These adjustments were related to the valuation allowance for foreign tax credits, and other US deferred tax assets, revaluation of our deferred tax assets due to the rate change from 35% to 21% and the transition tax on the repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings. The ultimate impact may differ from the Company´s estimate due to changes in estimates or further clarification of the new law.. Operational risks. Our actual reserves may not conform to our current estimates of our ore deposits and we depend on our ability to replenish ore reserves for our long-term viability.. There is a degree of uncertainty attributable to the calculation of reserves. Until reserves are actually mined and processed, the quantity of ore and grades must be considered as estimates only. The proven and probable ore reserves data included in this report are estimates prepared by us based on evaluation methods generally used in the mining industry. We may be required in the future to revise our reserves estimates based on our actual production. We cannot assure you that our actual reserves conform to geological, metallurgical or other expectations or that the estimated volume and grade of ore will be recovered. Market prices of our metals, increased production costs, reduced recovery rates, short-term operating factors, royalty charges and other factors may render proven and probable reserves uneconomic to exploit and may result in revisions of reserves data from time to time. Reserves data are not indicative of future results of operations. Our reserves are depleted as we mine. We depend on our ability to replenish our ore reserves for our long-term viability. We use several strategies to replenish and increase our ore reserves, including exploration and investment in properties located near our existing mine sites and investing in technology that could extend the life of a mine by allowing us to cost-effectively process ore types that were previously considered uneconomic. Acquisitions may also contribute to increase ore reserves and we review potential acquisition opportunities on a regular. 14. Table of Contents. basis. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue with our strategy to replenish reserves indefinitely.. Our operations are subject to risks, some of which are not insurable.. The business of mining, smelting and refining copper, zinc and other metals is subject to a number of risks and hazards, including industrial accidents, labor disputes, unusual or unexpected geological conditions, changes in the regulatory environment, environmental hazards, weather and other natural phenomena, such as seismic activity. Such occurrences could result in damage to, or destruction of, mining operations resulting in monetary losses and possible legal liability. In particular, surface and underground mining and related processing activities present inherent risks of injury to personnel and damage to equipment. We maintain insurance against many of these and other risks, which in certain circumstances may not provide adequate coverage. Insurance against certain risks, including certain liabilities for environmental damage or hazards as a result of exploration and production, is not generally available to us or other companies within the mining industry. Nevertheless recent environmental legal initiatives have considered future regulations regarding environmental damage insurance. In case such regulations come into force, we will have to analyze the need to obtain such insurance. We do not have, and do not intend to obtain, political risk insurance. These or other uninsured events may adversely affect our financial condition and the results of operations.. Changes in the demand level for our products and copper sales agreements could adversely affect our revenues.. Our financial results are subject to fluctuations on the level of industrial and consumer demand for the refined, semi-refined metal products and concentrates we sell, as well as global economic slow-downs or recessions. Also, changes in technology, industrial processes, concerns over weaknesses in the global economy and consumer habits may affect the level of demand to the extent that those increase or decrease the need for our metal products. Likewise, our revenues could be adversely affected by events of force majeure that could have a negative impact on our sales agreements. These events include acts of nature, labor strikes, fires, floods, wars, transportation delays, government actions or other events that are beyond the control of the parties of the agreement.. Interruptions of energy supply or increases in energy costs, shortages of water supply, critical parts, equipment, skilled labor and other production costs may adversely affect our results of operations.. We require substantial amounts of fuel oil, electricity, water and other resources for our operations. Fuel, gas and power costs constituted approximately 31%, 30% and 32% of our total production cost in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We rely upon third parties for our supply of the energy resources consumed in our operations so that prices for and availability of energy resources may be subject to change or curtailment, due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, imposition of new taxes or tariffs, interruptions in production by suppliers, worldwide price levels and market conditions. Regarding water consumption, although each operation currently has sufficient water rights to cover its operational demands, the loss of some or all water rights for any of our mines or operations, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights could require us to curtail or shut down mining production and could prevent us from pursuing expansion opportunities. In addition, future shortages of critical parts, equipment and skilled labor could adversely affect our operations and development projects.. Our Company is subject to health and safety laws which may restrict our operations, result in operational delays or increase our operating costs and adversely affect our financial results of operations.. We are required to comply with occupational health and safety laws and regulations in Peru and Mexico where our operations are subject to periodic inspections by the relevant governmental. 15. Table of Contents. authorities. These laws and regulations govern, among others, health and safety work place conditions, including high risk labor and the handling, storage and disposal of chemical and other hazardous substances. We believe our operations are in compliance in all material respects with applicable health and safety laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. Compliance with these laws and regulations and new or existing regulations that may be applicable to us in the future could increase our operating costs and adversely affect our financial results of operations and cash flows.. Our efforts are focused on the health and safety of our workforce in order to consistently improve performance and compliance through the implementation of occupational health programs, adequate training and safety incentives at our operations. Despite the Company's efforts, we are not exempt from accidents. These are reported to Mexican and Peruvian authorities as required. Regarding non-fatal accidents, in the last three years, the Company's Dart rate (rate to measure workplace injuries severe enough to warrant Day Away from work, job Restrictions and/or job Transfers) was much lower than the MSHA Dart rate (the MSHA Dart rate is published by the U.S.'s Mine Safety and Health Administration, and is used as an industry benchmark). In 2017, 2016 and 2015 we had two, six and one fatalities, respectively, in Mexico and Peru. The amounts paid to the Mexican and Peruvian authorities for reportable accidents did not have an adverse effect on our results. Under Mexican and Peruvian law penalties and fines for safety violations are generally monetary, but in certain cases may lead to the temporary or permanent shutdown of the affected facility or the suspension or revocation of permits or licenses. Also, violations of security and safety laws and regulations in our Peruvian operations can be considered a crime, punishable with a sentence of up to 10 years of prison.. Our metals exploration efforts are highly speculative in nature and may be unsuccessful.. Metals exploration is highly speculative in nature. It involves many risks and is frequently unsuccessful. Once mineralization is discovered, it may take a number of years from the initial phases of drilling until production is possible, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. Substantial expenditures are required to establish proven and probable ore reserves through drilling, to determine metallurgical processes to extract the metals from the ore and, in the case of new properties, to construct mining and processing facilities. We cannot assure you that our exploration programs will result in the expansion or replacement of current production with new proven and probable ore reserves.. Development projects have no operating history upon which we can base estimates of proven and probable ore reserves and estimates of future cash operating costs. Estimates are, to a large extent, based upon the interpretation of geological data obtained from drill holes and other sampling techniques, and feasibility studies that derive estimates of cash operating costs based upon anticipated tonnage and grades of ore to be mined and processed, the configuration of the ore body, expected recovery rates of the mineral from the ore, comparable facility and equipment operating costs, anticipated climatic conditions and other factors. As a result, actual cash operating costs and economic returns based upon development of proven and probable ore reserves may differ significantly from those originally estimated. Moreover, significant decreases in actual or expected prices may mean reserves, once found, will be uneconomical to produce.. We may be adversely affected by challenges relating to slope stability.. Our open-pit mines get deeper as we mine them, presenting certain geotechnical challenges including the possibility of slope failure. If we are required to decrease pit slope angles or provide additional road access to prevent such a failure, our stated reserves could be negatively affected. Furthermore, hydrological conditions relating to pit slopes, renewal of material displaced by slope failures and increased stripping requirements could also negatively affect our stated reserves. We have taken actions in order to maintain slope stability, but we cannot assure you that we will not have to take additional action in the future or that our actions taken to date will be sufficient. Unexpected. 16. Table of Contents. failure or additional requirements to prevent slope failure may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition, as well as have the effect of diminishing our stated ore reserves.. We may be adversely affected by labor disputes.. In the last several years we have experienced a number of strikes or other labor disruptions that have had an adverse impact on our operations and operating results. As of December 31, 2017, unions represented approximately 71.8% of our workforce. Currently, we have labor agreements in effect for our Mexican and Peruvian operations.. During 2017, the Unified Labor Union of SPCC workers and one of Toquepala's unions held three separate strikes. The Company estimates that the loss of copper production resulting from the 2017 strikes was not significant and our sales contracts were not affected.. Our Taxco and San Martin mines in Mexico have been on strike since July 2007. It is expected that operations at these mines will remain suspended until these labor issues are resolved.. We cannot assure you when these strikes will be settled, or that in the future we will not experience strikes or other labor related work stoppages that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our mining or metal production projects may be subject to additional costs due to community actions and other factors.. In recent years, worldwide mining activity has been pressured by neighboring communities for financial commitments to fund social benefit programs and infrastructure improvements. Our projects in Peru are not exempt from these pressures. Our Tia Maria project in Peru has experienced delays while trying to resolve issues with community groups.. It appears that it is becoming a part of the Peruvian mining environment that in order to obtain acceptance from local communities for projects in their localities, demands for substantial investments in community infrastructure and upgrades must be met in order to proceed with the mining projects.. We are confident that we will move forward with the Tia Maria project. However, we cannot assure you when and that we will not continue to incur additional costs for community infrastructure and upgrades in order to obtain the approval of current or future mining projects.. Environmental, regulatory response to climate change, and other regulations may increase our costs of doing business, restrict our operations or result in operational delays.. Our exploration, mining, milling, smelting and refining activities are subject to a number of Peruvian and Mexican laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, and certain industry technical standards. Additional matters subject to regulation include, but are not limited to, concession fees, transportation, production, water use and discharge, power use and generation, use and storage of explosives, surface rights, housing and other facilities for workers, reclamation, taxation, labor standards, mine safety and occupational health.. Environmental regulations in Peru and Mexico have become increasingly stringent over the last decade and we have been required to dedicate more time and money to compliance and remediation activities. Furthermore, the Mexican authorities have become more rigorous and strict in enforcing Mexican environmental laws. We expect additional laws and regulations will be enacted over time with respect to environmental matters.. Please refer to Note 12 \"Commitments and Contingencies - Environmental matters\" of our financial statements for further information on this subject.. 17. Table of Contents. The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would be particular to the geographic location of our facilities. These may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperatures. These effects may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations.. We are aware of fluctuations in weather patterns in the areas where we operate. Aligned with government efforts, we are working in measuring its carbon footprint in order to reduce any contribution to greenhouse gases generated by our operations. Similarly, we evaluate our water demand, as weather changes may result in increase/decrease scenarios that affect our needs.. The development of more stringent environmental protection programs in Peru and Mexico and in relevant trade agreements could impose constraints and additional costs on our operations requiring us to make significant investments in the future. We cannot assure you that current or future legislative, regulatory or trade developments will not have an adverse effect on our business, properties, operating results, financial condition or prospects.. Our mining and metal production projects may subject us to new risks.. Our Company is in the midst of a large expansion program, which may subject us to additional risks of industrial accidents. While we believe our contractors employ safety standards and other procedures to ensure these projects are completed with proper governance, it is possible that the increased activity occurring at our sites could cause accidents of an environmental nature or danger to human life.. In August 2014, our new SX-EW plant in Mexico had an industrial accident caused by a rock slide, coupled with a construction defect in the seal of a pipe at the new leaching system containment dam, which caused a spill of copper sulfate solution in to the Bacanuchi River, a tributary of the Sonora River. As a result of this accident the Company absorbed charges of $126.2 million through 2017. In addition, there are a number of collective action lawsuits and civil action lawsuits, filed against the Company in Mexico´s federal courts and the state courts of Sonora. A number of constitutional lawsuits have also been filed against various governmental authorities and against the Company. These lawsuits are seeking damages and requesting remedial actions to restore the environment. The Company believes that it is not possible to determine the extent of the damages sought and considers the lawsuits without merit. However the Company cannot offer any assurances that the outcome of these lawsuits will not have an adverse effect on the Company.. While this is an unusual event in the Company's history, we cannot offer assurance that an accident related to our project development program will not occur again in the future and cause environmental damage or damage that causes harm or loss of life.. Our business depends upon information technology systems which may be adversely affected by disruptions, damage, failure and risks associated with implementation and integration.. Our operations depend upon information technology systems which may be subject to disruption, damage or failure from different sources, including, without limitation, installation of malicious software, computer viruses, security breaches, cyber-attacks and defects in design. In recent years, cybersecurity incidents have increased in frequency and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and the corruption of data. We believe that we have implemented appropriate preventative measures to mitigate potential risks by implementing a certified IT service management system with the necessary controls that are frequently reviewed and tested, including a risk matrix that considers all the possible threats with an impact and probability analysis, actions to avoid or mitigate them and the corresponding. 18. Table of Contents. testing plan. However, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of information technology disruptions, we could potentially be subject to manipulation or improper use of our systems and networks, operational delays, the compromising of confidential or otherwise protected information, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, financial losses from remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations.. Other risks. Applicable law restricts the payment of dividends from our Minera Mexico subsidiary to us.. Our subsidiary, Minera Mexico, is a Mexican company and, as such, may pay dividends only out of net income that has been approved by the shareholders. Shareholders must also approve the actual dividend payment, after mandatory legal reserves have been created and losses for prior fiscal years have been satisfied. These legal constraints may limit the ability of Minera Mexico to pay dividends to us, which in turn, may have an impact on our ability to pay stockholder dividends or to service debt.. Global and local market conditions, including the high competitiveness in the copper mining industry, may adversely affect our profitability.. Our industry is cyclical by nature and fluctuates with economic cycles. Therefore, we are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic and political conditions, such as lower levels of consumer and corporate confidence, decreased business investment, increased unemployment, reduced income and asset values in many areas, currency volatility and limited availability of credit and access to capital. Additionally, we face competition from other copper mining and producing companies around the world; significant competition exists to acquire properties producing or capable of producing copper and other metals as well as consolidation among some of our main competitors that make them more diversified than we are.. We cannot assure you that changes in market conditions, including competition, will not adversely affect us to compete in the future on the basis of price or other factors with companies that may benefit from future favorable trading or other arrangements.. We are controlled by Grupo Mexico, which exercises control over our affairs and policies and whose interests may be different from yours.. At December 31, 2017, Grupo Mexico owned indirectly 88.9% of our capital stock. Certain of our and Minera Mexico's officers and directors are also directors and/or officers of Grupo Mexico and/or of its affiliates. We cannot assure you that the interests of Grupo Mexico will not conflict with our minority stockholders.. Grupo Mexico has the ability to determine the outcome of substantially all matters submitted for a vote to our stockholders and thus exercises control over our business policies and affairs, including the following:. <U+0095> the composition of our Board of Directors and, as a result, any determinations of our Board with respect to our business direction and policy, including the appointment and removal of our officers;    <U+0095> determinations with respect to mergers and other business combinations, including those that may result in a change of control;     <U+0095> whether dividends are paid or other distributions are made and the amount of any dividends or other distributions;     <U+0095> sales and dispositions of our assets;. 19. Table of Contents. <U+0095> the amount of debt financing that we incur; and    <U+0095> the approval of capital projects.. We cannot assure you that increased financial obligations of Grupo Mexico or AMC resulting from financings or for other reasons will not result in our parent corporations obtaining loans, increased dividends or other funding from us.. In addition, we have in the past engaged in, and expect to continue to engage in, transactions with Grupo Mexico and its other affiliates which are related party transactions and may present conflicts of interest. For additional information regarding the share ownership of, and our relationships with, Grupo Mexico and its affiliates, see Note 16 \"Related Party Transactions.\". Unanticipated litigation or negative developments in pending litigation or with respect to other contingencies may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We are currently, and may in the future become, subject to litigation, arbitration or other legal proceedings with other parties. If decided adversely to the Company, these legal proceedings, or others that could be brought against us in the future, may adversely affect our financial position or prospects. For further detailed discussion of pending litigation, please see Note 12 \"Commitment and Contingencies - Litigation matters\".. International Risks. We are a company with substantial assets located outside of the United States. We conduct production operations in Peru and Mexico and exploration activities in these countries as well as in Chile, Argentina and Ecuador. Accordingly, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in foreign countries, our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in each of these countries. Such risks include possible expropriation or nationalization of property, confiscatory taxes or royalties, possible foreign exchange controls, changes in the national policy toward foreign investors, extreme environmental standards, etc.. Our insurance does not cover most losses caused by the above described risks. Consequently, our production, development and exploration activities in these countries could be substantially affected by factors out of control, some of which could materially and adversely affect our financial position or results of operations.. Risks Associated with Doing Business in Peru and Mexico. There is uncertainty as to the termination and renewal of our mining concessions.. Under the laws of Peru and Mexico, mineral resources belong to the state and government and concessions are required in both countries to explore for or exploit mineral reserves. In Peru, our mineral rights derive from concessions from Ministry of Energy and Mines (\"MINEM\") for our exploration, exploitation, extraction and/or production operations. In Mexico, our mineral rights derive from concessions granted, on a discretionary basis, by the Ministry of Economy, pursuant to Mexican mining law and regulations thereunder.. Mining concessions in both Peru and Mexico may be terminated if the obligations of the concessioner are not satisfied. In Peru, we are obligated to pay certain fees for our mining concession. In Mexico, we are obligated, among other things, to explore or exploit the relevant concession, to pay any relevant fees, to comply with all environmental and safety standards, to provide information to the Ministry of Economy and to allow inspections by the Ministry of Economy. Any termination or unfavorable modification of the terms of one or more of our concessions, or failure to obtain renewals. 20. Table of Contents. of such concessions subject to renewal or extensions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and prospects.. Peruvian economic and political conditions may have an adverse impact on our business.. A significant part of our operations are conducted in Peru. Accordingly, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected by changes in economic or other policies of the Peruvian government or other political, regulatory or economic developments in the country. During the past several decades, Peru has had a succession of regimes with differing policies and programs. Past governments have frequently intervened in the nation's economy and social structure. Among other actions, past governments have imposed controls on prices, exchange rates and local and foreign investments, as well as limitations on imports, have restricted the ability of companies to dismiss employees and have prohibited the remittance of profits to foreign investors.. In more recent years Peru has had political and social stability. The Peruvian government's economic policies reduced inflation and the Peruvian economy has experienced significant growth.. Because we have significant operations in Peru, we cannot provide any assurance that political developments and economic conditions in Peru and/or other factors will not have a material adverse effect on market conditions, prices of our securities, our ability to obtain financing and our results of operations and financial condition.. Mexican economic and political conditions, as well as drug-related violence, may have an adverse impact on our business.. The Mexican economy is highly sensitive to economic developments in the United States, mainly because of its high level of exports to this market. Gross domestic product grew by 2.3% in 2016, 1.7% in 2017 and is expected to grow 2.3% in 2018. Other risks in Mexico are increases in taxes on the mining sector and higher royalties as was enacted in 2013. As has occurred in other metal producing countries, the mining industry may be perceived as a source of additional fiscal revenue.. In addition, security institutions in Mexico are under significant stress, as a result of drug-related violence. This situation creates potential risks especially for transportation of minerals and finished products, which affect a small part of our production. However, drug-related violence has had a limited impact on our operations as it has tended to concentrate outside our areas of production. If this were to change, the potential risks to our operations might increase.. Because we have significant operations in Mexico, we cannot provide any assurance that political developments and economic conditions as well as drug-related violence, in Mexico will not have a material adverse effect on market conditions, prices of our securities, on our ability to obtain financing, and on our results of operations and financial condition.. Peruvian inflation and fluctuations in the sol exchange rate may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Although the U.S. dollar is our functional currency and our revenues are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, as we operate in Peru, portions of our operating costs are denominated in Peruvian soles. Accordingly, when inflation or deflation in Peru is not offset by a change in the exchange rate of the sol, our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and the market price of our common stock could be affected.. Over the past several years, Peru has experienced one of its best economic periods. Inflation in 2017, 2016 and 2015 was 1.5%, 3.2% and 4.4%, respectively. The value of the sol has appreciated against the U.S. dollar 3.4% and 1.6% in 2017 and 2016, respectively, and it has depreciated 14.2% in 2015. Although the Peruvian government's economic policy reduced inflation and the economy has. 21. Table of Contents. experienced significant growth in recent years, we cannot assure you that inflation will not increase from its current level or that such growth will continue in the future at similar rates or at all. Additionally a global financial economic crisis, could negatively affect the Peruvian economy.. To manage the volatility related to the risk of currency rate fluctuations, we may enter into forward exchange contracts. We cannot assure you, however, that currency fluctuations will not have an impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Mexican inflation, restrictive exchange control policies and fluctuations in the peso exchange rate may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Although all of our Mexican operations' sales of metals are priced and invoiced in U.S. dollars, a substantial portion of its costs are denominated in pesos. Accordingly, when inflation in Mexico increases without a corresponding depreciation of the peso, the net income generated by our Mexican operations is adversely affected. The annual inflation rate in Mexico was 6.8% in 2017, 3.4% in 2016 and 2.1% in 2015.. At the same time, the peso has been subject in the past to significant volatility, which may not have been proportionate to the inflation rate and may not be proportionate to the inflation rate in the future. The value of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar increased by 4.5% in 2017, and decreased by 20.1% in 2016 and 16.9% in 2015.. The Mexican government does not currently restrict the ability of Mexican companies or individuals to convert pesos into dollars or other currencies. While we do not expect the Mexican government to impose any restriction or exchange control policies in the future, it is an area we closely monitor. We cannot assure you the Mexican government will maintain its current policies with regard to the peso or that the peso's value will not fluctuate significantly in the future. The imposition of exchange control policies could impair Minera Mexico's ability to obtain imported goods and to meet its U.S. dollar-denominated obligations and could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. Developments in the United States, Europe and emerging market countries may adversely affect the Company business, our common stock price and our debt securities.. The business and market value of securities of companies with significant operations in Peru and Mexico is, to varying degrees, affected by the economic policies and market conditions in the United States, Europe and emerging market countries. Although economic policies and conditions in such countries may significantly differ from economic conditions in Peru or Mexico, as the case may be, the business community reactions to developments in any of these countries may adversely effect the Company business or the market value or trading price of the securities, including debt securities, of issuers that have significant operations in Peru or Mexico.. In addition, in recent years economic conditions in Mexico have increasingly become correlated to U.S. economic conditions. Therefore, changes in economic policies and conditions in the United States could also have a significant adverse effect on Mexican economic conditions, affecting our business, the price of our common stock or debt securities. In 2017, the United States, Canada and Mexico began a discussion leading towards an update of the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\"). As of January 2018, six rounds of discussions have taken place and more than thirty issues are being discussed.. We cannot assure you that the market value or trading prices of our common stock and debt securities, will not be adversely affected by events in the United States or elsewhere, including in emerging market countries."
