[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Described below (and in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk of this report) are risk factors that we have identified that may have a negative impact on our future financial performance or affect whether we achieve the goals or expectations expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements contained herein. References below to \"we,\" \"us,\" and \"our\" should be read to refer to Southwest Gas Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including Southwest Gas Corporation.. As a holding company, Southwest Gas Holdings, Inc. depends on operating subsidiaries to meet financial obligations.. Southwest Gas Holdings, Inc. has no significant assets other than the stock of operating subsidiaries and is not expected to have significant operations on its own. Southwest Gas Holdings' ability to pay dividends to shareholders is dependent on the ability of its subsidiaries to generate sufficient net income and cash flows to service debt and pay upstream dividends. Because of the relative size of subsidiary operations, and their relative impacts to net income and cash flows, substantial dependency on the utility operations of Southwest Gas Corporation exists. The ability of Southwest Holdings' subsidiaries to pay upstream dividends and make other distributions would be subject to applicable state law and regulatory restrictions.. Risk Factors that Apply to Southwest Gas Holdings, Inc., Utility Operations, and Construction Services. A cybersecurity incident has the potential to disrupt normal business operations, expose sensitive information, and/or lead to physical damages, and may result in legal claims or damage to our reputation.. As a utility provider, maintaining business operations is critical for our customers, business partners, suppliers, and our employees. A disruption in service could adversely impact our reputation, ability to provide utility services for our customers, as well as impact the media used to communicate and exchange information both internally and externally.. We process and store sensitive information including personal identifiable information, intellectual property, and business proprietary information as part of normal business operations. A cybersecurity breach of this information could expose us to monetary and other damages from customers, suppliers, business partners, government agencies, and others. In addition, a breach could increase costs incurred to protect against such risks, introduce financial penalties, and increase regulation to which we may be subject.. Physical damage due to a cybersecurity incident or acts of cyber terrorism could impact utility and related services provided to customers and could lead to material liabilities. We have taken the initiative in fortifying the core infrastructure that supports the provision of utility services. While these measures provide layers of defense to mitigate these risks, there can be no assurance that the measures will be effective against any particular cyber attack. Even though we have insurance coverage in place for cyber-related risks, if such an attack or act of terrorism were to occur, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected to the extent not fully covered by such insurance coverage.. 8. Table of Contents. We may pursue acquisitions and other strategic transactions, the success of which may impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. The integration of acquisitions requires significant time and resources. Investments of resources would be required to support any acquisition, which could result in significant ongoing operating expenses and may divert resources and management attention from other areas of our business. If we fail to successfully integrate companies we acquire, we may not realize the benefits expected from the transaction and goodwill recorded as a result of the acquisition could be impaired. We assess existing goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if events or circumstances occur that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of an operating segment below its carrying value. We also assess long-lived assets, including intangible assets associated with acquisitions for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that an asset's carrying amount may not be recoverable. To the extent the value of goodwill or long-lived assets becomes impaired, the impairment charges could have a material impact on our results of operations.. Risk Factors that Apply to Southwest Gas Holdings, Inc. and Utility Operations. Governmental policies and regulatory actions can reduce our earnings or cash flows.. Regulatory commissions set our utility customer rates and determine what we can charge for our rate-regulated services. Our ability to obtain timely future rate increases depends on regulatory discretion. Governmental policies and regulatory actions, including those of the ACC, CPUC, FERC, and PUCN relating to allowed rates of return, rate structure, purchased gas and investment recovery, operation and construction of facilities, present or prospective wholesale and retail competition, changes in tax laws and policies (including regulatory recovery or refunds thereof), and changes in and compliance with environmental and safety laws such as the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 and policies, can reduce our earnings. Risks and uncertainties relating to delays in obtaining, or failure to obtain, regulatory approvals, conditions imposed in regulatory approvals, and determinations in regulatory investigations can also impact financial performance. The timing and amount of rate relief can materially impact results of operations. The timing and amount associated with the recovery of regulatory assets and associated with the return of regulatory liabilities can materially impact cash flows. In its recent general rate case order, the ACC removed a monthly winter-period weather adjuster, while retaining the decoupling mechanism. Authorization to adjust Arizona rates associated with the revenue decoupling mechanism will now exclusively be considered in the annual filing with the ACC, making the Arizona decoupled rate mechanism fundamentally similar to the Nevada mechanism. While there is no effect on net income overall from this rate adjustment, the timing of operating cash flows could be impacted.. We recover federal and state income tax expense from our customers through the rates we charge. On December 22, 2017, new federal tax reform legislation from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted in the United States, resulting in significant changes from previous tax law. The TCJA reduced the federal corporate income tax rate to 21% from 35% effective January 1, 2018. Accumulated deferred tax liabilities were required to be remeasured at the lower rates based on the date of enactment (2017). The reduction in plant-related deferred tax balances was reclassified to a regulatory liability. The lower tax rates will also reduce our ongoing cost of service. Depending on the regulatory approach chosen in our rate jurisdictions to reflect these tax differences in customer rates, cash flows could be materially impacted.. In general, we are unable to predict what types of conditions might be imposed on Southwest or what types of determinations might be made in pending or future regulatory proceedings or investigations. We nevertheless believe that it is not uncommon for conditions to be imposed in regulatory proceedings, for Southwest to agree to conditions as part of a settlement of a regulatory proceeding, or for determinations to be made in regulatory investigations that reduce our earnings and liquidity. For example, we may request recovery of a particular operating expense in a general rate case filing that a regulator disallows, negatively impacting our earnings if the expense continues to be incurred. Southwest records regulatory assets in its consolidated financial statements to reflect the ratemaking and regulatory decision-making authority of the regulators, as allowed by generally accepted accounting principles. The creation of a regulatory asset allows for the deferral of costs which, absent a mechanism to recover such costs from customers in rates approved by regulators, would be charged to expense in the consolidated income statement in the period incurred. If there was a change in regulatory positions surrounding the collection of these deferred costs, there could be a material impact on financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. 9. Table of Contents. We may be subject to disallowances, penalties or fines related to the operation of natural gas pipelines under recent regulations concerning natural gas pipeline safety, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and/or cash flows.. We are committed to consistently monitoring and maintaining our distribution system and storage operations to ensure that natural gas is acquired, stored and delivered safely, reliably and efficiently. Due to the combustible nature of our product, we anticipate that the natural gas industry could be the subject of increased federal, state, and local regulatory oversight over time. We continue to work diligently with industry associations and federal, state, and local regulators to ensure compliance with any new laws, such as the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 and the series of significant rulemakings that the PHMSA is in the process of proposing. The Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 required the United States Department of Transportation to conduct further study of existing programs and future requirements; these studies are nearing their completion and proposed regulation changes are anticipated in some form in 2018. We expect there to be increased costs associated with compliance (and potential penalties for any non-compliance) with these and similar laws. If these costs are not recoverable in our customer rates, or if there are delays in recoverability due to regulatory lag, they could have a negative impact on our operating costs and financial results.. Our operating results may be adversely impacted by an economic downturn.. If an economic slowdown occurs, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. Fluctuations and uncertainties in the economy make it challenging for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and to identify risks that may affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. We cannot predict the timing, strength, or duration of any future economic slowdowns. If the economy or the markets in which we operate decline from present levels, it may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We rely on having access to interstate pipelines' transportation capacity. If these pipelines were not available, it could impact our ability to meet our customers' full requirements.. We must acquire both sufficient natural gas supplies and interstate pipeline capacity to meet customer requirements. We must contract for reliable and adequate delivery capacity for our distribution system, while considering the dynamics of the interstate pipeline capacity market, our own in-system resources, as well as the characteristics of our customer base. Interruptions to or reductions of interstate pipeline service caused by physical constraints, excessive customer usage, or other force majeure could reduce our normal supply of gas. A prolonged interruption or reduction of interstate pipeline service or availability of natural gas by other means in any of our jurisdictions, particularly during the winter heating season, would reduce cash flow and earnings.. Our earnings may be materially impacted due to volatility in the cash surrender value of our company-owned life insurance policies during periods in which stock market changes are significant.. We have life insurance policies with a net death benefit value at December 31, 2017 of approximately $254 million on members of management and other key employees to indemnify ourselves against the loss of talent, expertise, and knowledge, as well as to provide indirect funding for certain nonqualified benefit plans. The net cash surrender value of these policies (which is the cash amount we would receive if we voluntarily terminated the policies) is approximately $118 million at December 31, 2017 and is included in the caption \"Other property and investments\" on the balance sheet. Cash surrender values are directly influenced by the investment portfolio underlying the insurance policies. This portfolio includes both equity and fixed income (mutual fund) investments. As a result, the cash surrender value (but not the net death benefits) moves up and down consistent with the movements in the broader stock and bond markets. During 2017, the Company recognized income of $10.3 million in Other income (deductions) due to increases in the cash surrender values of its company-owned life insurance policies compared to $7.4 million due to increases in cash surrender values and net death benefits recognized during 2016. Current tax regulations provide for tax-free treatment of life insurance (death benefit) proceeds. Therefore, changes in the cash surrender value components of company-owned life insurance policies, as they progress towards the ultimate death benefits, are also recorded without tax consequences. Currently, we intend to hold the company-owned life insurance policies for their duration. Changes in the cash surrender value of company-owned life insurance policies, except as related to the purchase of additional policies, affect our earnings but not our cash flows.. 10. Table of Contents. The cost of providing pension and postretirement benefits is subject to changes in pension asset values, changing demographics, and actuarial assumptions which may have an adverse effect on our financial results.. We provide pension and postretirement benefits to eligible employees. Our costs of providing such benefits are subject to changes in the market value of our pension fund assets, changing demographics, life expectancies of beneficiaries, current and future legislative changes, and various actuarial calculations and assumptions. The actuarial assumptions used may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, withdrawal rates, interest rates, and other factors. These differences may result in a significant impact on the amount of pension expense or other postretirement benefit costs recorded in future periods. For example, lower than assumed returns on investments and/or reductions in bond yields could result in increased contributions and higher pension expense which would have a negative impact on our cash flows and reduce net income.. Our liquidity, and in certain circumstances our earnings, may be reduced during periods in which natural gas prices are rising significantly or are more volatile.. Increases in the cost of natural gas may arise from a variety of factors, including weather, changes in demand, the level of production and availability of natural gas, transportation constraints, transportation capacity cost increases, federal and state energy and environmental regulation and legislation, the degree of market liquidity, natural disasters, wars and other catastrophic events, national and worldwide economic and political conditions, the price and availability of alternative fuels, and the success of our strategies in managing price risk.. Rate schedules in each of our service territories contain purchased gas adjustment clauses which permit us to file for rate adjustments to recover increases in the cost of purchased gas. Increases in the cost of purchased gas have no direct impact on our profit margins, but do affect cash flows and can therefore impact the amount of our capital resources. We have used short-term borrowings in the past to temporarily finance increases in purchased gas costs, and we expect to do so during 2018, if the need again arises.. We may file requests for rate increases to cover the rise in the cost of purchased gas. Due to the nature of the regulatory process, there is a risk of disallowance of full recovery of these costs during any period in which there has been a substantial run-up of these costs or our costs are more volatile. Any disallowance of purchased gas costs would reduce cash flow and earnings.. The nature of our operations presents inherent risks of loss that could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our operations are subject to inherent hazards and risks such as gas leaks, fires, natural disasters, catastrophic accidents, explosions, pipeline ruptures, and other hazards and risks that may cause unforeseen interruptions, personal injury, or property damage. Additionally, our facilities, machinery, and equipment, including our pipelines, are subject to third party damage from construction activities, vandalism, or acts of terrorism. Such incidents could result in severe business disruptions, significant decreases in revenues, and/or significant additional costs to us. Any such incident could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, earnings, and cash flows. In addition, any of these or similar events could result in legal claims against us, cause environmental pollution, personal injury or death claims, damage to our properties or the properties of others, or loss of revenue by us or others.. We maintain liability insurance for some, but not all, risks associated with the operation of our natural gas pipelines and facilities. In connection with these liability insurance policies, we are responsible for an initial deductible or self-insured retention amount per incident, after which the insurance carriers would be responsible for amounts up to the policy limits. These liability insurance policies require us to be responsible for the first $1 million (self-insured retention) of each incident plus the first $4 million in total claims above our self-insured retention in the policy year. We cannot predict the likelihood that any future event will occur which will result in a claim exceeding $1 million; however, a large claim for which we were deemed liable would reduce our earnings up to and including these self-insurance maximums.. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified employee workforce could adversely affect operations.. Our ability to implement our business strategy and serve our customers is dependent upon our continuing ability to attract and retain talented professionals and a technically skilled workforce, and being able to transfer the knowledge and expertise of our workforce to new employees as our aging employees retire. Failure to hire and adequately train replacement employees, including the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor could adversely affect our ability to manage and operate our business.. 11. Table of Contents. We may not be able to rely on rate decoupling to maintain stable financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Management has worked with regulatory commissions in designing rate structures that strive to provide affordable and reliable service to its customers while mitigating the volatility in prices to customers and stabilizing returns to investors. Rate structures in all service territories allow Southwest to separate or \"decouple\" the recovery of operating margin from natural gas consumption, though decoupled structures vary by state. In California, authorized operating margin levels vary by month. In Nevada and Arizona, a decoupled rate structure applies to most customer classes providing stability in annual operating margin. Significantly warmer-than-normal weather conditions in our service territories and other factors, such as climate change and alternative energy sources, may result in decreased cash flows attributable to lower natural gas sales and delays in recovering regulatory asset balances. Furthermore, continuation of the decoupled rate designs currently in place are subject to regulatory discretion, and if unfavorably modified or discontinued could adversely impact our financial position and results of operations.. A significant reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We cannot be certain that any of our current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Our credit ratings are subject to change at any time in the discretion of the applicable ratings agencies. Numerous factors, including many which are not within our control, are considered by the ratings agencies in connection with assigning credit ratings.. Any future downgrade could increase our borrowing costs, which would diminish our financial results. We would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in certain current, as well as future, financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. A downgrade could require additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral and otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Uncertain economic conditions may affect our ability to finance capital expenditures.. Our ability to finance capital expenditures and other matters will depend upon general economic conditions in the capital markets. Declining interest rates are generally believed to be favorable to utilities while rising interest rates are believed to be unfavorable because of the high capital costs of utilities. In addition, our authorized rate of return is based upon certain assumptions regarding interest rates. If interest rates are lower than assumed rates, our authorized rate of return in the future could be reduced. If interest rates are higher than assumed rates, it will be more difficult for us to earn our currently authorized rate of return.. We require numerous permits and other approvals from various federal, state, and local governmental agencies to operate our business; any failure to obtain or maintain required permits or approvals could negatively affect our business and results of operations.. All of our existing and planned development projects require multiple permits. The acquisition, ownership and operation of natural gas pipelines and storage facilities require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from federal, state, and local governmental agencies. Once received, approvals may be subject to litigation, and projects may be delayed or approvals reversed in litigation. If there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain or maintain any required approvals or to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, we may not be able to construct or operate our facilities, or we may be forced to incur additional costs.. Risk Factors that Apply to Southwest Gas Holdings, Inc. and Construction Services. Weather conditions in Centuri's operating areas can adversely affect operations, financial position, and cash flows.. Centuri's results of operations, financial position, and cash flows can be significantly impacted by changes in weather that affect the ability of Centuri to provide utility companies with contracted-for trenching, installation, and replacement of underground pipes, as well as maintenance services for energy distribution systems. Generally, Centuri's revenues are lowest during the first quarter of the year due to less favorable winter weather conditions.. 12. Table of Contents. Fixed-price contracts at Centuri are subject to potential losses that could adversely affect results of operations.. Centuri enters into a variety of types of contracts customary in the underground utility construction industry. These contracts include unit-priced contracts, unit-priced contracts with revenue caps, and fixed-price (lump sum) contracts. Contracts with caps and fixed-price arrangements can be susceptible to constrained profits, or even losses, especially those contracts that cover an extended-duration performance period. This is due, in part, to the necessity of estimating costs far in advance of the completion date (at bid inception). Unforeseen inflation, or other costs unanticipated at inception, can detrimentally impact profitability for these types of contracts.. Loss of one or more significant customers could adversely affect the results of the construction services segment.. During 2017, over half of the construction services revenues were generated from seven customers. This concentration of risk could be impactful to operating results if construction work slowed or halted with one or more of these customers, if competition for work increased, or if existing contracts were not replaced or extended.. Disruptions in labor relations with Centuri's employees could adversely affect results of operations.. The majority of Centuri's labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements with labor unions, which is typical of the utility construction industry. Labor disruptions, boycotts, strikes, or significant negotiated wage and benefit increases at Centuri, whether due to employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on Centuri's business and our results of operations and cash flows."
