[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K, when deciding whether to invest in us. Limited partner interests are inherently different from capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this report could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In such event, we may be unable to make distributions to our unitholders and the trading price of our common units could decline. The following risks are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions.. Risks Related to Our Business. We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our General Partner, to enable us to reinstate paying the minimum quarterly distribution, or any distribution, to our unitholders.. We may not have sufficient cash from operations, following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our General Partner, each quarter to enable us to reinstate the minimum quarterly distribution. For example, in January 2016 the board of directors of our General Partner suspended paying a quarterly distribution with respect to the fourth quarter of 2015 and every quarter of 2016 and 2017 and instead, based on current conditions, to conserve any excess cash for the operation of our business. Additionally, we currently have restrictions on paying a cash distribution until our Consolidated Total Leverage Ratio is below 5.0 to 1.0. Finally, the Merger Agreement restricts us from paying distributions at this time. The board of directors of our General Partner and our management believe this suspension to be in the best interest of our unitholders and will continue to evaluate the Partnership's ability to reinstate the distribution in future periods. Our decision to reserve all of our cash on hand for allowed purposes and not distribute it may significantly impact our unitholders, as well as our business and operations. The market value of our units may remain depressed or decline further unless and until we resume a distribution. In addition, refinancing or restructuring of our debt may require us to accept covenants that may restrict our ability to reinstate distributions. External perceptions of the health of our business and our liquidity also may be impacted, which could limit further our ability to access capital markets, cause our vendors to tighten our credit terms and cause a strain in our relationship with customers and other business partners. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:. • the volume of natural gas we gather, process, treat, compress and transport and the volume of NGLs we fractionate and transport;. • the level of production of, and the demand for, crude oil, natural gas and NGLs and the market prices of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs;. • damage to pipelines, facilities, plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, fires, severe weather, explosions and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism including damage to third-party pipelines or facilities upon which we rely for transportation and processing services;. • outages at the processing or NGL fractionation facilities owned by us or third parties, whether caused by mechanical failure resulting from maintenance, construction or otherwise;. • leaks or accidental releases of products or other materials into the environment, whether as a result of human error or otherwise;. • prevailing economic and market conditions;. • realized prices received for natural gas and NGLs;. • fixed-fees associated with our services;. • the market prices of natural gas and NGLs relative to one another, which affects our processing margins;. • capacity charges and volumetric fees associated with our transportation services;. • the level of competition from other midstream energy companies in our geographic markets;. • the level of our operating, maintenance, general and administrative costs;. 22. Table of contents. • regulatory action affecting the supply of, or demand for, natural gas, the maximum transportation rates we can charge on our pipelines, our existing contracts, our operating costs or our operating flexibility; and. • the financial health of our parent company and its ability to pay amounts owed to us on a timely basis.. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distributions will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. • the level of capital expenditures we make;. • the cost of acquisitions, if any;. • our debt service requirements and other liabilities;. • fluctuations in our working capital needs;. • our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets;. • restrictions contained in our debt agreements;. • the amount of cash reserves established by our General Partner; and. • other business risks affecting our cash levels.. Because of the natural decline in production from existing wells in our areas of operation, our success depends in part on producers growing production and replacing declining production and also on our ability to obtain new sources of natural gas. Any decrease in the volumes of natural gas that we gather, compress, process, treat or transport or in the volumes of NGLs that we fractionate or transport could adversely affect our business and operating results.. The natural gas volumes that support our business depend on the level of production from natural gas wells connected to our systems, which may be less than expected and will naturally decline over time. As a result, our cash flows associated with these wells also will decline over time. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels on our systems, we must obtain new sources of natural gas. The primary factors affecting our ability to obtain non-dedicated sources of natural gas include (i) the level of successful drilling activity in our areas of operation, (ii) our ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells and (iii) our ability to compete successfully for volumes from sources connected to other pipelines.. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in our areas of operation, the amount of reserves associated with wells connected to our systems or the rate at which production from a well declines. In addition, we have no control over producers or their drilling or production decisions, which are affected by, among other things:. • the availability and cost of capital;. • prevailing and projected crude oil, natural gas and NGL prices;. • demand for crude oil, natural gas and NGLs;. • levels of reserves;. • geological considerations;. • environmental or other governmental regulations, including the availability of drilling permits and the regulation of hydraulic fracturing; and. • the availability of drilling rigs and other costs of production and equipment.. Fluctuations in energy prices can also greatly affect the development of crude oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling and production activity generally decreases as natural gas, crude oil or NGL prices decrease. Declines in natural gas, crude oil or NGL prices could have a negative impact on exploration, development and production activity, and sustained low prices could lead to a material decrease in such activity. Sustained reductions in exploration or production activity in our areas of operation could lead to reduced utilization of our assets.. Natural gas, crude oil and NGL prices have been negatively affected by a combination of factors, including weakening demand, increased production, the decision by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to keep production levels unchanged and a strengthening in the U.S. dollar relative to most other currencies. Given the historical volatility of crude oil prices, there remains a risk that prices could further deteriorate due to increased domestic production, slowing economic growth rates in various global regions and/or the potential for significant supply and demand imbalances.. 23. Table of contents. The decline in natural gas, crude oil and NGL prices has negatively impacted exploration, development and production activity, and the sustained low prices of any of these commodities could lead to a material decrease in such activity. Certain of our producers and other suppliers are tied to crude oil wells, and any sustained reduction in exploration or production activity in our areas of operation, whether related to crude oil, natural gas or NGLs, or a combination of them, could lead to reduced utilization of our assets, including the volume of natural gas flowing on our system.. Because of these and other factors, even if natural gas and liquid reserves are known to exist in areas served by our assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. If reductions in drilling activity result in our inability to maintain the current levels of throughput on our systems, those reductions could reduce our revenue and cash flow and adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. We do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas and liquid reserves connected to our gathering and transportation systems on a regular or ongoing basis; therefore, in the future, volumes of natural gas on our systems could be less than we anticipate.. We do not obtain independent evaluations of the natural gas reserves connected to our systems on a regular or ongoing basis because our producer customers are often unwilling to share this information for competitive reasons. Accordingly, we do not have independent estimates of total reserves dedicated to some or all of our systems or the anticipated life of such reserves. If the total reserves or estimated life of the reserves connected to our gathering and transportation systems are less than we anticipate and we are unable to secure additional sources of natural gas, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our success depends on drilling activity by customers and our ability to attract and maintain customers in a limited number of geographic areas.. A significant portion of our assets are located in the Eagle Ford Shale region, and we intend to focus our future capital expenditures largely on developing our business in this area. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are significantly dependent upon the demand for our services in this area. Due to our focus on this area, an adverse development in natural gas production from this area, such as decreased development or production activity, would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we spread expenditures more evenly over a wider geographic area.. Our failure to execute effectively on major development projects could result in delays and/or cost over-runs, limitations on our growth and negative effects on our operating results, liquidity and financial position.. We are engaged from time to time in the planning and construction of development projects, some of which may take a number of months before commercial operation. These projects are complex and subject to a number of factors beyond our control, including delays from third-party landowners, the permitting process, unavailability of materials, labor disruptions, environmental hazards, financing, accidents, weather and other factors. Also, legislative or regulatory intervention may create limits or prohibit our ability to perform desired capital projects. Delays in the completion of these types of projects could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Estimating the timing and expenditures related to these development projects is complex and subject to variables that can increase expected costs. Should the actual costs of these projects exceed our estimates, our liquidity and capital position could be adversely affected. This level of development activity requires effort from our management and technical personnel and places additional requirements on our financial resources and internal financial controls.. Energy prices are volatile, and a change in these prices in absolute terms, or an adverse change in energy prices, particularly natural gas and NGLs relative to one another, could adversely affect our gross operating margin and cash flow and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. We are subject to risks due to frequent and often substantial fluctuations in commodity prices. In the past, the prices of natural gas, NGLs and other commodities have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. Our future cash flow will be materially adversely affected if we experience significant, prolonged pricing deterioration.. The markets for and prices of natural gas, NGLs and other commodities depend on factors that are beyond our control. These factors include the supply of and demand for these commodities, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including:. • worldwide economic conditions;. • worldwide political events, including actions taken by foreign oil and natural gas producing nations;. 24. Table of contents. • worldwide weather events and conditions, including natural disasters and seasonal changes;. • the levels of domestic production and consumer demand;. • the availability of transportation systems with adequate capacity;. • the volatility and uncertainty of regional pricing differentials;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels;. • the effect of energy conservation measures;. • the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation;. • fluctuations in demand from electric power generators and industrial customers; and. • the anticipated future prices of crude oil, natural gas, NGLs and other commodities.. Our exposure to direct commodity price risk and volatility in costs to market products may vary.. We currently generate a large portion of our revenues pursuant to fixed-fee contracts under which we are paid based on the volumes of natural gas that we gather, process, treat, compress and transport and the volumes of NGLs we fractionate and transport, rather than the value of the underlying natural gas or NGLs. Consequently, this portion of our existing operations and cash flows have limited direct exposure to commodity price levels. Although we intend to enter into similar fixed-fee contracts with new customers in the future, our efforts to obtain such contractual terms may not be successful. We may acquire or develop additional midstream assets or change the arrangements under which we process our volumes. These changes may also impact our transportation and gathering costs in a manner that increases our exposure to commodity price risk. Extended or future exposure to the volatility of crude oil and natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions.. In addition, another large portion of our revenues is generated pursuant to fixed-spread contracts under which we strive to buy and sell equal volumes of natural gas and NGLs at prices based upon the same index price of the commodity. Our ability to do this is based upon a number of factors, including willingness of customers to accept the same index as a basis, physical differences in geography, product specifications and ability to market products at the anticipated differential from the pricing index.. Unexpected volume changes due to production variability or to gathering, plant or pipeline system disruptions may increase our exposure to commodity price movements.. We sell processed natural gas to third parties at plant tailgates, pipeline pooling points or at inlet meters to the sites of industrial and utility customers. These sales may be interrupted by disruptions to volumes anywhere along the system. We attempt to balance sales with volumes supplied, but unexpected volume variations due to production variability or to gathering, plant or pipeline system disruptions may expose us to volume imbalances which, in conjunction with movements in commodity prices, could materially impact our income from operations and cash flow.. We may not successfully balance our purchases and sales of natural gas, which would increase our exposure to commodity price risks.. We purchase from producers and other suppliers a substantial amount of the natural gas that flows through our pipelines and processing facilities for sale to third parties, including natural gas marketers and others.. We are exposed to fluctuations in the price of natural gas through volumes sold pursuant to commodity-sensitive arrangements and, to a lesser extent, through volumes sold pursuant to our fixed-spread contracts.. In order to mitigate our direct commodity price exposure, we typically attempt to balance our natural gas sales with our natural gas purchases on an aggregate basis across all of our systems. We may not be successful in balancing our purchases and sales, and as such may become exposed to fluctuations in the price of natural gas. Our overall net position with respect to natural gas can change over time and our exposure to fluctuations in natural gas prices could materially increase, which in turn could result in increased volatility in our revenue, gross operating margin and cash flows.. Although we enter into back-to-back purchases and sales of natural gas in our fixed-spread contracts in which we purchase natural gas from producers or suppliers at receipt points on our systems and simultaneously sell a similar volume of natural gas at delivery points on our systems, we may not be able to mitigate all exposure to commodity price risks. Any of these actions could cause our purchases and sales to become unbalanced. If our purchases and sales are unbalanced, we will. 25. Table of contents. face increased exposure to commodity price risks, which in turn could result in increased volatility in our revenue, gross operating margin and cash flows.. Our industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our business and operating results.. We compete with other similarly sized midstream companies in our areas of operation. Some of our competitors are large companies that have greater financial, managerial and other resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors have assets in closer proximity to natural gas supplies and have available idle capacity in existing assets that would not require new capital investments for use. Our competitors may expand or construct gathering, compression, treating, processing or transportation systems or NGL fractionation facilities that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. In addition, our customers may develop their own gathering, compression, treating, processing or transportation systems or NGL fractionation facilities in lieu of using ours. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenue and cash flow could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and our customers. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our gathering, processing and transportation contracts subject us to contract renewal risks.. We gather, purchase, process, treat, compress, transport and sell most of the natural gas and NGLs on our systems under contracts with terms of various durations. As these contracts expire, we may have to negotiate extensions or renewals with existing suppliers and customers or enter into new contracts with other suppliers and customers. We may be unable to obtain new contracts on favorable commercial terms, if at all. We also may be unable to maintain the economic structure of a particular contract with an existing customer or the overall mix of our contract portfolio. To the extent we are unable to renew our existing contracts on terms that are favorable to us or successfully manage our overall contract mix over time, our revenue, gross operating margin and cash flows could decline and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be materially and adversely affected.. We depend on a relatively limited number of customers.. A significant percentage of our revenue is attributable to a relatively limited number of customers. Our top ten customers accounted for 46.4% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017. We have gathering, processing, transportation and/or sales contracts with each of these customers of varying duration and commercial terms. If we are unable to renew our contracts with one or more of these customers on favorable terms, we may not be able to replace any of these customers in a timely fashion, on favorable terms or at all. In addition, many of our customers are oil and gas companies that are facing liquidity constraints in light of the current commodity price environment and may be disproportionately affected by such constraints as compared to larger, better capitalized companies. This concentration of our customers in the energy industry may impact our overall exposure to credit risk as customers may be affected similarly by prolonged changes in economic and industry conditions. If a significant number of our customers experience a prolonged business decline or disruptions or enter into bankruptcy, we will incur increased exposure to credit risk and bad debts. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by any of our key customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, gross operating margin, cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. In any of these situations, our revenue, gross operating margin, cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders may be adversely affected. We expect our exposure to concentrated risk of nonpayment or nonperformance to continue as long as we remain substantially dependent on a relatively limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue.. If third-party pipelines, other midstream facilities or purchasers of our products interconnected to our gathering or transportation systems become partially or fully unavailable, or if the volumes we gather, process or transport do not meet the natural gas and NGL quality requirements of such pipelines or facilities, our gross operating margin, cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected.. Our natural gas gathering and transportation pipelines, NGL pipelines and processing and treating facilities connect to other pipelines or facilities owned and operated by unaffiliated third parties. The continuing operation of such third-party pipelines, processing plants, facilities of purchasers of our products and other midstream facilities is not within our control. These pipelines and facilities may become unavailable because of testing, turnarounds, line repair, reduced operating pressure, lack of operating capacity, regulatory requirements, curtailments of receipt or deliveries due to insufficient capacity or because of damage from natural disasters or other operational hazards. In addition, if the costs to us to access and transport on these third-party pipelines significantly increase, our profitability could be reduced. If any such increase in costs occurred, if any of these pipelines or other midstream facilities become unable to receive, transport or process natural gas, or if the volumes we gather, process, treat or transport do not meet the natural gas quality requirements (such as hydrocarbon dew point, temperature. 26. Table of contents. and foreign content including water, sulfur, carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide) of such pipelines or facilities, our gross operating margin, cash flow and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected.. Significant portions of our pipeline systems and processing plants have been in service for several decades and we have a limited ownership history with respect to all of our assets. There could be unknown events or conditions or increased maintenance or repair expenses and downtime associated with our pipelines and processing and treating plants that could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. Significant portions of our pipeline systems and processing plants have been in service for many decades. Our executive management team has a limited history of operating our assets. There may be historical occurrences or latent issues regarding our pipeline systems of which our executive management team may be unaware and that may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The age and condition of our pipeline systems could also result in increased maintenance or repair expenditures, and any downtime associated with increased maintenance and repair activities could materially reduce our revenue. Any significant increase in maintenance and repair expenditures or loss of revenue due to the age or condition of our pipeline systems could adversely affect our business and results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not adequately insured, including any interruption of our operations as a result of such accident or event, or if we fail to recover all anticipated insurance proceeds for significant accidents or events for which we are insured, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected.. Our operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards inherent in the gathering, compressing, treating, processing and transportation of natural gas and the fractionation and transportation of NGLs, including:. • damage to pipelines and plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters, acts of terrorism and actions by third parties;. • inadvertent damage from construction, vehicles, farm and utility equipment;. • leaks of natural gas, including gas with high levels of hydrogen sulfide, and other hydrocarbons or losses of natural gas as a result of human error, the malfunction of equipment or facilities, which can result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution, damage to equipment and suspension of operations;. • ruptures, fires and explosions; and. • other hazards, including those associated with high-sulfur content, or sour gas, that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations.. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage. These risks may also result in interruptions, curtailment or suspension of our operations. A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are not fully insured against all risks inherent in our business. In addition, although we are insured for environmental pollution resulting from environmental accidents that occur on a sudden and accidental basis, we may not be insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, some of which may result in toxic tort claims. If a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not fully insured, it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies may substantially increase. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Additionally, we may be unable to recover from prior owners of our assets, pursuant to our indemnification rights, for potential environmental liabilities.. We may grow our business in part by seeking strategic acquisition opportunities. If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms from Holdings or third parties, our future growth may be affected and the acquisitions we do make may reduce, rather than increase, our cash generated from operations on a per unit basis.. Our ability to grow is affected, in part, by our ability to make acquisitions that increase our cash generated from operations on a per unit basis. The acquisition component of our strategy is based, in large part, on our expectation of ongoing divestitures of midstream energy assets by industry participants. A material decrease in such divestitures would limit our opportunities for future acquisitions and could adversely affect our ability to grow our operations and increase our cash distributions to our unitholders.. 27. Table of contents. If we are unable to make accretive acquisitions from Holdings or third parties whether because we are (i) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts, (ii) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms because our revolving credit facility restricts us from making acquisitions, (iii) outbid by competitors or (iv) for any other reason, then our future growth and ability to increase cash distributions could be limited. Furthermore, even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in the cash generated from operations on a per unit basis. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, we are restricted from making acquisitions at this time.. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things:. • mistaken assumptions about volumes, revenue and costs, including synergies;. • an inability to secure adequate customer commitments to use the acquired systems or facilities;. • the risk that natural gas reserves expected to support the acquired assets may not be of the anticipated magnitude or may not be developed as anticipated;. • an inability to integrate successfully the assets or businesses we acquire, particularly given the relatively small size of our management team and their limited history with our assets;. • coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities;. • the assumption of unknown liabilities;. • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller;. • mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt;. • the diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns;. • unforeseen difficulties operating in new geographic areas and business lines; and. • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses.. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and our unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources.. Incremental projects require access to new capital. Tightened capital markets or increased competition for investment opportunities could impair our ability to finance such projects.. We continuously consider and enter into discussions regarding potential acquisitions or capital expenditures. Any limitations on our access to new capital will impair our ability to execute these projects. If the cost of such capital becomes too expensive, our ability to develop or acquire strategic and accretive assets will be limited. We may not be able to raise the necessary funds on satisfactory terms, if at all. The primary factors that influence our initial cost of equity include market conditions, including our then current unit price, fees we pay to underwriters and other offering costs, which include amounts we pay for legal and accounting services. The primary factors influencing our cost of borrowing include interest rates, credit spreads, covenants, underwriting or loan origination fees and similar charges we pay to lenders.. Weak economic conditions and the volatility and disruption in the financial markets could increase the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets substantially while diminishing the availability of funds from those markets. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on terms similar to our current debt and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. These factors may impair our ability to finance future projects.. In addition, we are experiencing increased competition for the types of assets we contemplate purchasing. Weak economic conditions and competition for asset purchases could limit our ability to execute fully on our business strategy.. We may not have access to capital due to deterioration of conditions in the global capital markets, weakening of macroeconomic conditions and negative changes in financial performance.. In general, we rely, in large part, on banks and capital markets to fund our operations, contractual commitments and refinance existing debt. These markets can experience high levels of volatility and access to capital can be constrained for an extended period of time. In addition to conditions in the capital markets, a number of other factors, including our financial. 28. Table of contents. performance and any sustained depression of natural gas, NGL and/or crude oil prices (including further extension of the low energy price environment that began in the second half of 2014), could cause us to incur increased borrowing costs and to have greater difficulty accessing public and private markets for both secured and unsecured debt. If we are unable to secure financing on acceptable terms, our other sources of funds, including available cash, bank facilities and cash flow from operations may not be adequate to fund our operations, contractual commitments and refinance existing debt.. Because our common units are yield-oriented securities, increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels.. Interest rates may increase in the future. As a result, interest rates on our future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by our level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels.. Our debt may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities.. As of December 31, 2017, we had total principal indebtedness of $548.6 million, comprised of $429.1 million related to our term loan and $119.5 million (including outstanding letters of credit) related to our revolving credit facility, which had $15.5 million remaining in unused borrowing capacity. Our future level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following:. • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms;. • our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and cash distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt;. • we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally;. • our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited; and. • its effect on the going concern (\"Going Concern\") issue past the next twelve months as we will not be in compliance with our consolidated total leverage ratio set at 5.0 to 1.0.. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our parent company's and our own future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions, our Sponsor's ability to fund equity cures, as well as financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service any future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all.. A shortage of skilled labor in the midstream natural gas industry could reduce labor productivity and increase costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. The gathering, processing, treating, compression and transportation of natural gas and NGL fractionation and transportation services require skilled laborers in multiple disciplines, such as equipment operators, mechanics and engineers, among others. We have from time to time encountered shortages for these types of skilled labor. If we experience shortages of skilled labor in the future, our labor and overall productivity or costs could be materially and adversely affected. If our labor prices increase or if we experience materially increased health and benefit costs with respect to our General Partner's employees, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Restrictions in our revolving credit facility could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to unitholders and the value of our common units.. We are dependent upon the earnings and cash flow generated by our operations in order to meet our debt service obligations and to make cash distributions to our unitholders. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our revolving credit facility and any future financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital. 29. Table of contents. needs or to expand or pursue our business activities, which may, in turn, limit our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our revolving credit facility limits our ability among other things, to:. • incur or guarantee additional debt;. • make distributions on or redeem or repurchase units;. • make certain investments and acquisitions;. • make capital expenditures;. • incur certain liens or permit them to exist;. • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates;. • merge or consolidate with another company; and. • transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets.. Our revolving credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial metrics. Our ability to meet those financial metrics and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those metrics and tests. On December 29, 2016, we entered into the fifth amendment to the Third A&R Revolving Credit Agreement (the \"Fifth Amendment\"), pursuant to which we received a full waiver for all defaults or events of default arising out of our failure to comply with the financial covenant to maintain a Consolidated Total Leverage Ratio less than 5.00 to 1.00 for all periods ending on or prior to December 31, 2018 (the \"Ratio Compliance Date\"). See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.. The provisions of our revolving credit facility may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our revolving credit facility could result in a default or an event of default that could enable our lenders, subject to the terms and conditions of our revolving credit facility, to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and our unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment.. For a complete description of long-term debt, see Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements.. If we continue to be unable to generate enough cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness or are unable to use future borrowings to refinance our indebtedness or fund other capital needs, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, which may have onerous terms or may be unavailable.. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our outstanding indebtedness, or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other capital needs. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as:. • refinancing or restructuring all or a portion of our debt;. • obtaining alternative financing;. • selling assets;. • reducing or delaying capital investments;. • seeking to raise additional capital; or. • revising or delaying our strategic plans.. However, we cannot assure you that we would be able to implement alternative financing plans, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that undertaking alternative financing plans, if necessary, would allow us to meet our debt obligations and capital requirements or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our various debt instruments.. 30. Table of contents. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to obtain alternative financing could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms. For example, as discussed in Note 2, we do not expect to be in compliance with the Consolidated Total Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Fifth Amendment) at March 31, 2019 which begins the uncertainty of our ability to continue as a going concern as early as the end of the first quarter of 2018. As a result, we would be in default under the terms of the agreements governing our debt, which would allow our creditors at that time to declare all outstanding indebtedness to be due and payable (which would in turn trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default rights between the relevant agreements), the lenders under our Senior Credit Facilities, as defined in Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements, could terminate their commitments to loan money, and the lenders could foreclose against our assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If the amounts outstanding under our Senior Credit Facilities or any of our other indebtedness were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that the value of our assets would be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to the lenders or to our other debt holders. Based upon the Partnership's financial forecast, the Fifth Amendment, as well as the $15.0 million provided by the Sponsors in exchange for senior unsecured notes of the Partnership, we believe management's executed plans provide the Partnership with sufficient liquidity to fund future operations through at least twelve months from the date that our 2017 financial statements were issued.. We are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.. Our natural gas gathering, processing, compression, treating and transportation operations and NGL fractionation services are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relate to environmental protection (including, for example, the CAA, the CERCLA, the ESA and the RCRA).. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations, including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital or operating expenditures to limit or prevent releases of materials from our pipelines and facilities, and the imposition of substantial liabilities and remedial obligations for pollution resulting from our operations or at locations currently or previously owned or operated by us. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA, and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly corrective actions or costly pollution control measures. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. In addition, we may experience a delay in obtaining or be unable to obtain required permits or regulatory authorizations, which may cause us to lose potential and current customers, interrupt our operations and limit our growth and revenue.. There is a risk that we may incur significant environmental costs and liabilities in connection with our operations due to historical industry operations and waste disposal practices, our handling of hydrocarbon and other wastes and potential emissions and discharges related to our operations. Joint and several, strict liability may be incurred, without regard to fault, under certain of these environmental laws and regulations in connection with discharges or releases of hazardous wastes and other materials on, under or from our properties and facilities, many of which have been used for midstream activities for a number of years, oftentimes by third parties not under our control. Private parties, including the owners of the properties through which our gathering or transportation systems pass and facilities where our wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. In addition, changes in environmental laws occur frequently, and any such changes that result in additional permitting obligations or more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial position. We may not be able to recover all or any of these costs from insurance.. Climate change legislation, regulatory initiatives and litigation could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the natural gas services we provide.. The EPA has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the CAA that require certain large stationary sources to obtain PSD pre-construction permits and Title V operating permits for GHG emissions, which does not currently apply to our facilities. In addition, in September 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from certain large GHG emissions sources. Our Gregory, Woodsboro, Bonnie View, Lone Star and El Dorado facilities are or will be required to report under this rule. This reporting rule was expanded in November 2010 to include petroleum and natural gas facilities, including certain natural gas transmission compression facilities, and again in October 2015 to include onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting activities and natural gas transmission pipelines. We have submitted the reports required under the reporting rule on a timely basis and have adopted procedures for future required reporting. In. 31. Table of contents. addition, on June 3, 2016, the EPA published regulations to control emissions of methane, a GHG, and VOCs from various oil and natural gas operations, although on June 16, 2017, the EPA proposed to stay for 2 years certain requirements in the final rule. Litigation continues regarding the rules and the stays. Compliance with these rules, if they are not stayed, could result in additional costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, for us and our customers which may adversely impact our business.. While Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, the prospect for adoption of significant legislation at the federal level to reduce GHG emissions is perceived to be low at this time. Several states have also implemented programs to reduce and/or monitor GHG emissions. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations that limit emissions of GHGs could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that exploration and production operators produce, including our current or future customers, which could thereby reduce demand for our midstream services.. In addition, in December 2015, over 190 countries, including the United States, reached an agreement to reduce GHG emissions (the \"Paris Agreement\"). On June 1, 2017, however, President Trump announced that the United States would withdraw from the Paris Agreement unless it could re-enter on more favorable terms. We continue to monitor the international efforts to address climate change. To the extent the United States and other countries implement this agreement or impose other climate change regulations on the oil and gas industry, it could have an adverse direct or indirect effect on our business.. Legislation or regulations that may be adopted to address climate change could also affect the markets for our products by making our products more or less desirable than competing sources of energy. To the extent that our products are competing with higher GHG emitting energy sources, our products would become more desirable in the market with more stringent limitations on GHG emissions. To the extent that our products are competing with lower GHG emitting energy sources such as solar and wind, our products would become less desirable in the market with more stringent limitations on GHG emissions. We cannot predict with any certainty at this time how these possibilities may affect our operations.. Finally, increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events, and effects upon sea. levels, the arability of farmland, and water availability and quality. If such effects were to occur, our operations and those of our. customers, have the potential to be adversely affected. Potential adverse effects could include disruption of our activities,. including, for example, damages to our facilities from powerful winds or floods, or increases in our costs of operation or. reductions in the efficiency of our operations, as well as potentially increased costs for insurance coverage in the aftermath of. such effects. Significant physical effects of climate change could also have an indirect effect on our financing and operations by. disrupting the operations of our customers, and the service companies or suppliers with whom we have a business relationship. Due to their location, our operations along the Gulf Coast are vulnerable to operational and structural damages resulting from hurricanes and other severe weather systems and our insurance may not cover all associated losses. We are taking steps to mitigate physical risks from storms, but no assurance can be given that future storms will not have a material adverse effect on our business.. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in natural gas production by our customers, which could adversely impact our revenues.. A portion of our customers' natural gas production is developed from unconventional sources, such as shales, that require hydraulic fracturing as part of the completion process. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to stimulate gas production. Hydraulic fracturing has become the subject of opposition, additional private and government studies and increased federal, state and local regulation. For example, from time to time, Congress has considered legislation to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to subject hydraulic fracturing operations to regulation under that Act's Underground Injection Control Program and to require disclosure of chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. The EPA has adopted and proposed new regulations under the CAA requiring, among other things, the use of \"reduced emission completion\" technology for certain hydraulic fracturing operations and related equipment, and has solicited public comment on a possible federal reporting requirement for fluids used in hydraulic fracturing pursuant to the Toxic Substances Control Act. Compliance with such laws and regulations could result in additional costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, for us and our customers, which may adversely impact our cash flows and results of operations.. Furthermore, a number of public and private studies are underway regarding the connection, if any, between. the disposal of waste water associated with hydraulic fracturing and observed seismicity in the vicinity of such disposal. operations. Several states, municipalities and local regulatory bodies have also proposed or adopted, or are considering, legislative or regulatory restrictions on hydraulic fracturing, including in some cases by imposing moratoria on hydraulic. 32. Table of contents. fracturing or regarding permitting, casing and cementing of wells; testing of nearby water wells; restrictions on access to, and. usage of, water; and restrictions on the type of chemical additives that may be used in hydraulic fracturing operations. We cannot predict whether any other legislation will be enacted and if so, what its provisions would be. Additional levels of regulation and permits required through the adoption of new laws and regulations at the federal, state or local level could lead to delays, increased operating costs and prohibitions for producers who drill near our pipelines. This could reduce the volumes of natural gas available to move through our gathering systems which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.. Our construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and will be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. One of the ways we intend to grow our business is through organic growth projects. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing systems and the construction of new midstream assets involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic uncertainties that are beyond our control. Such expansion projects may also require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, and financing may not be available on economically acceptable terms or at all. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost or at all. Moreover, our revenue may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project.. For instance, if we expand a pipeline, the construction may occur over an extended period of time, yet we will not receive any material increases in revenue until the project is completed and placed into service. Moreover, we could construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which such growth does not materialize or only materializes over a period materially longer than expected. Since we are not engaged in the exploration for and development of natural gas and crude oil reserves, we often do not have access to third-party estimates of potential reserves in an area prior to constructing facilities in that area. To the extent we rely on estimates of future production in our decision to construct additions to our systems, such estimates may prove to be inaccurate as a result of the numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of future production. As a result, new facilities may not attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, the construction of additions to our existing gathering and transportation assets may require us to obtain new rights-of-way or environmental authorizations. We may be unable to obtain such rights-of-way or authorizations and may, therefore, be unable to connect new natural gas volumes to our systems or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or authorizations or to renew existing rights-of-way or authorizations. If the cost of renewing or obtaining new rights-of-way or authorizations increases materially, our cash flows could be adversely affected.. A change in the jurisdictional characterization or regulation of our assets or a change in regulatory laws and regulations or the implementation of existing laws and regulations could result in increased regulation of our assets which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Intrastate natural gas transportation facilities that do not provide interstate transmission services, and natural gas gathering facilities, are exempt from the jurisdiction of FERC under the NGA. Although FERC has not made any formal determinations with respect to any of our facilities, we believe that our intrastate natural gas pipelines and related facilities that are not engaged in providing interstate transmission services are engaged in exempt gathering and intrastate transportation and, therefore, are not subject to FERC jurisdiction. We also believe that our natural gas gathering pipelines meet the traditional tests that FERC has used to determine if a pipeline is a gathering pipeline and is therefore not subject to FERC's jurisdiction. The distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services has been the subject of substantial litigation and, over time, FERC's policy for determining which facilities it regulates has changed. In addition, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission facilities, on the one hand, and intrastate transportation and gathering facilities, on the other, is a fact-based determination made by FERC on a case-by-case basis. If FERC were to consider the status of an individual facility and determine that the facility and/or services provided by it are not exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA and that the facility provides interstate service, the rates for, and terms and conditions of, services provided by such facility would be subject to regulation by FERC under the NGA or the NGPA. Such regulation could decrease revenue, increase operating costs and, depending upon the facility in question, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if any of our facilities were found to have provided services or otherwise operated in violation of the NGA or NGPA, this could result in the imposition of civil penalties as well as a requirement to disgorge charges collected for such service in excess of the rate established by FERC.. Some of our intrastate pipelines provide interstate transportation service regulated under Section 311 of the NGPA. Rates charged under Section 311 must be \"fair and equitable,\" and amounts collected in excess of fair and equitable rates are subject to refund with interest. Accordingly, such regulation may prevent us from recovering our full cost of service allocable to such interstate transportation service. In addition, some of our intrastate pipelines may be subject to complaint-based state regulation with respect. 33. Table of contents. to our rates and terms and conditions of service, which may prevent us from recovering some of our costs of providing service. The inability to recover our full costs due to FERC and state regulatory oversight and compliance could materially and adversely affect our revenues.. Moreover, FERC regulation affects our gathering, transportation and compression business generally. FERC's policies and practices across the range of its natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, market transparency, market manipulation, ratemaking, capacity release, segmentation and market center promotion, directly and indirectly affect our gathering and pipeline transportation business. In addition, the classification and regulation of our gathering and intrastate transportation facilities also are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts or Congress.. State regulation of gathering facilities generally includes safety and environmental regulation and complaint-based ratable take requirements and rate regulation. State and local regulation may cause us to incur additional costs or limit our operations, and may prevent us from choosing the customers to which we provide service. Due to increased gathering activity, among other considerations, natural gas gathering is beginning to receive greater legislative and regulatory scrutiny which could result in new regulations or enhanced enforcement of existing laws and regulations. Increased regulation of natural gas gathering could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. We may incur greater than anticipated costs and liabilities as a result of pipeline safety regulation, including integrity management program testing and related repairs.. The DOT, through PHMSA, has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transmission pipelines located where a leak or rupture could harm \"high consequence areas\" unless the operator effectively demonstrates by risk assessment that the pipeline could not affect the area. High consequence areas include high population areas, areas that are sources of drinking water, ecological resource areas that are unusually sensitive to environmental damage from a pipeline release and commercially navigable waterways. The regulations require operators, including us, to:. • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity;. • identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area;. • maintain processes for data collection, integration and analysis;. • repair and remediate pipelines as necessary; and. • implement preventive and mitigating actions.. In addition, many states, including the states in which we operate, have adopted regulations similar to existing DOT regulations for intrastate pipelines. Although many of our pipeline facilities fall within a class that is currently not subject to these requirements, we may incur significant costs and liabilities associated with repair, remediation, preventative or mitigation measures associated with our non-exempt pipelines, particularly in South Texas. We have incurred costs of approximately $0.9 million and $0.8 million during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, in order to complete the testing required by existing DOT regulations and their state counterparts. This expenditure included all costs associated with repairs, remediations, preventative and mitigating actions related to the 2017 and 2016 testing programs.. Should we fail to comply with DOT or comparable state regulations, we could be subject to penalties and fines. Additionally, pipeline safety reforms, including new requirements, enhanced penalties and changes in the administration and enforcement of safety laws have been implemented in recent years and the consideration of additional reforms is ongoing. Such legislative and regulatory changes could have a material effect on our operations and costs of transportation service.. The implementation of statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions could increase the costs and have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business and increase the working capital requirements to conduct these activities.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\") was enacted in 2010 and amended the Commodity Exchange Act. This law regulates derivative and commodity transactions, including crude oil and gas hedging transactions used in our risk management activities. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (\"CFTC\") and other regulators to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation. While many of the regulations have been promulgated and are already in effect, the rulemaking and implementation process is still ongoing, and we cannot yet predict the ultimate effect of the rules and regulations on our business.. 34. Table of contents. In its rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC will likely finalize regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents, although certain bona fide hedging transactions would be exempt from these position limits provided that various conditions are satisfied.  Once finalized, the position limits rule and its companion rule on aggregation may have an impact on our ability to hedge our exposure to certain enumerated commodities.. The Dodd-Frank Act provisions are also intended to change fundamentally the way swap transactions are entered into, transforming an over-the-counter market in which parties negotiate directly with each other into a regulated market in which many swaps are to be executed on registered exchanges or swap execution facilities and cleared through central counterparties. To date, several categories of interest rate and index credit default swaps have been designated by the CFTC as mandatorily clearable swaps. These swaps may also be required to be traded on registered swap execution facilities or exchanges. Both the clearing and the trading requirements are likely to increase significantly transaction costs of entering into swaps (e.g., by entering into agreements with and paying commission to brokerage and clearing intermediaries). Even if we chose to rely on the end-user exception from the clearing and trading requirements, we would be required to take certain steps to qualify for the end-user exception.  As the CFTC further designates swap contracts as required to be cleared and traded on a trading facility, the utility of the end-user exception will become even more important. Our ability to rely on the end-user exception may change the profitability of our trades or the efficiency of our hedging.. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could, among other things, significantly increase the cost of entering into derivative and commodity contracts (including from swap record-keeping and reporting requirements), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of some derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, require greater collateral support for derivative contracts and potentially increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties.  If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution to unitholders.. Because the CFTC is still in the process of interpreting its regulations, it is possible that some of the derivative and commodity contracts used in our business may be treated differently in the future.  For example, the CFTC may further revise its definitions for spots, forwards, forwards with volumetric optionality, trade options, full requirements contracts and certain other contracts that may combine the elements of physical commodity trades and cash settlement, netting and book-outs.  If these contracts were classified as swaps, the costs of entering into these contracts will likely increase.. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC is also directed generally to prevent price manipulation and fraud in physical commodities markets traded in interstate commerce, including physical energy and other commodities, as well as financial instruments, such as futures, options and swaps. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC has adopted additional anti-market manipulation, anti-fraud and disruptive trading practices regulations that prohibit, among other things, fraud and price manipulation in the physical commodities, futures, options and swaps markets.  Accordingly, the CFTC and the self-regulatory organizations (\"SROs\"), such as commodity futures exchanges, are continuing to develop their respective enforcement authorities and compliance priorities under the Dodd-Frank Act. Given the novelty of the regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act, it is difficult to predict how these new enforcement priorities of the CFTC and the SROs will impact our business. Should we violate the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, the regulations promulgated by the CFTC, and any rules adopted by the SROs thereunder, we could be subject to CFTC enforcement action and material penalties and sanctions.. In February 2017, the U.S. President ordered the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury to review certain existing rules and regulations, such as those promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Act; however, the implications of that review are not yet known and none of the rules and regulations promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Act have been modified or rescinded as of the date of this report. Given the uncertainty associated with both the results of the existing Dodd-Frank Act requirements and the manner in which additional provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact of such requirements on our operations is unclear. Accordingly, the changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of business activities, require changes to certain business practices, or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to make cash  distributions to our unitholders.. Cyber-attacks, acts of terrorism or other disruptions could adversely impact our results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. We are subject to cyber security risks related to breaches in the systems and technology that we use (i) to manage our operations and other business processes and (ii) to protect sensitive information maintained in the normal course of our. 35. Table of contents. businesses. The gathering, processing and transportation of natural gas from our gathering, processing and pipeline facilities are dependent on communications among our facilities and with third-party systems that may be delivering natural gas into or receiving natural gas and other products from our facilities. Disruption of those communications, whether caused by physical disruption such as storms or other natural phenomena, by failure of equipment or technology or by manmade events, such as cyber-attacks or acts of terrorism, may disrupt our ability to deliver natural gas and control these assets. Cyber-attacks could also result in the loss of confidential or proprietary data or security breaches of other information technology systems that could disrupt our operations and critical business functions, adversely affect our reputation and subject us to possible legal claims and liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders. In addition, our natural gas pipeline systems may be targets of terrorist activities that could disrupt our ability to conduct our business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to unitholders. It is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our General Partner's ability to operate our business effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key management and personnel.. Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies will depend on our General Partner's continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled management personnel with midstream natural gas industry experience. Competition for these persons in the midstream natural gas industry is intense. Given our size, we may be at a disadvantage, relative to our larger competitors, in the competition for these personnel. We may not be able to continue to employ senior executives and key personnel or attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Our failure to retain or attract senior executives and key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business effectively.. We do not have employees. We rely solely on officers and employees of our General Partner to operate and manage our business.. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results timely and accurately or prevent fraud, which would likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common units.. We are subject to the public reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, including the rules thereunder that require our management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and timely financial reports, prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a publicly traded partnership. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (\"GAAP\"), but our internal accounting controls may not meet all standards applicable to companies with publicly traded securities. Our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain effective controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, which we refer to as Section 404.. Given the difficulties inherent in the design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting, in addition to our limited accounting personnel and management resources, we can provide no assurance as to our or our independent registered public accounting firm's future conclusions about the effectiveness of our internal controls, and we may incur significant costs in our efforts to comply with Section 404. Any failure to implement and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting will subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our business and would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common units.. We are required to disclose changes made in our internal control and procedures on a quarterly basis and make an annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As a smaller reporting company, as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to attest annually to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to holders of our common units, subordinated units and Class B Convertible Units depends primarily on our cash flow rather than on our profitability, which may prevent us from making distributions, even during periods in which we record net income.. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes.. 36. Table of contents. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us. Holdings indirectly owns and controls our General Partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations as well as has limited duties to us and our unitholders. Holdings, its general partner and owners, and our General Partner have conflicts of interest with us and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our other unitholders.. Holdings controls our General Partner and has the authority to appoint all of the officers and directors of our General Partner.  Pursuant to the organizational documents of the general partner of Holdings, two directors (one of whom must be independent) on our board of directors will be appointed by each of EIG, Tailwater and the group of lenders that received membership interests in Holdings in connection with Holdings' Chapter 11 reorganization. David W. Biegler served as the chairman of the board of our General Partner through January 6, 2017, at which time Bruce A. Williamson was appointed chairman of the board of our General Partner.  Although our General Partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner that is beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our General Partner also have a duty to manage our General Partner in a manner that is beneficial to its ultimate owner, Holdings. Conflicts of interest may arise between Holdings and our General Partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our General Partner may favor its own interests and the interests of Holdings over our interests and the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include the following situations, among others:. • Neither our Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership (\"Partnership Agreement\") nor any other agreement requires Holdings to pursue a business strategy that favors us.. • Our General Partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Holdings, in resolving conflicts of interest.. • Our Partnership Agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our General Partner to us and our unitholders with contractual standards governing its duties to us and our unitholders, limits our General Partner's liabilities, and also restricts the rights of our unitholders with respect to actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. • Except in limited circumstances, our General Partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval.. • Our General Partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders.. • Our General Partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or a growth capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and to our General Partner and the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units.. • Our General Partner determines which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us.. • Our General Partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period.. • Our Partnership Agreement permits us to classify up to $35.0 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus.This cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated units or to our General Partner in respect of the general partner interest or the incentive distribution rights.. • Our Partnership Agreement does not restrict our General Partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf.. • Our General Partner has limited its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations.. • Our General Partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if they own more than 80% of the common units.. • Our General Partner controls the enforcement of the obligations that it and its affiliates owe to us.. • Our General Partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us.. 37. Table of contents. • Our General Partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our General Partner's incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our General Partner or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations.. Each of Tailwater and EIG is not limited in its ability to compete with us and is not obligated to offer us the opportunity to acquire additional assets or businesses, which could limit our ability to grow and could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. Tailwater and EIG are not prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Tailwater and EIG may each acquire, construct or dispose of additional midstream or other assets and may be presented with new business opportunities, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct such assets or to engage in such business opportunities. Moreover, while Tailwater and EIG may offer us the opportunity to buy additional assets from them, neither of them are under a contractual obligation to do so and we are unable to predict whether or when such acquisitions might be completed. Tailwater and EIG are each private equity firms with significantly greater resources than us with experience making investments in midstream energy businesses. Tailwater and EIG may each compete with us for investment opportunities and may own interests in entities that compete with us.. Pursuant to the terms of our Partnership Agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our General Partner, its executive officers, or any of its affiliates, including Tailwater and EIG. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our General Partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders.. The market price of our common units may fluctuate significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. There were 22,122,113 publicly traded common units as of December 31, 2017. In addition, Holdings owned 26,492,074 common units, 12,213,713 subordinated units and 18,335,181 Class B Convertible Units as of December 31, 2017. You may not be able to resell your common units at or above your acquisition price. Additionally, a lack of liquidity may result in wide bid-ask spreads, contribute to significant fluctuations in the market price of the common units and limit the number of investors who are able to buy the common units.. The market price of our common units may decline and be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. • our quarterly distributions (or any suspension thereof);. • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;. • the loss of a large customer;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. • general economic conditions;. • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common units or changes in financial estimates by analysts;. • future sales of our common units; and. • other factors described in these \"Risk Factors.\". Our General Partner has limited its liability regarding our obligations.. Our General Partner has limited its liability under contractual arrangements so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets, and not against our General Partner or its assets. Our General Partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our General Partner. Our Partnership Agreement provides that any action taken by our General Partner to limit its liability is not a breach of our General Partner's fiduciary duties, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our General Partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such. 38. Table of contents. reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders.. Our Partnership Agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions.. If we reinstate our distributions, we expect that we will distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders and will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and growth capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow.. In addition, if we reinstate our distributions and we distribute all of our available cash, we may not grow as quickly as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or growth capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our Partnership Agreement or our revolving credit facility on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders.. While our Partnership Agreement requires us to distribute all of our available cash, our Partnership Agreement, including provisions requiring us to make cash distributions contained therein, may be amended.. While our Partnership Agreement requires us to distribute all of our available cash, our Partnership Agreement, including provisions requiring us to make cash distributions contained therein, may be amended.  Our Partnership Agreement generally may not be amended during the subordination period without the approval of a majority our public common unitholders. However, our Partnership Agreement can be amended with the consent of our General Partner and the approval of a majority of the outstanding common units (including common units held by affiliates of our General Partner) after the subordination period has ended. As of February 23, 2018, Holdings, the 100% owner of our General Partner, owned, indirectly, 54.5% of the outstanding common units, 100% of our outstanding subordinated units and 100% of our outstanding Class B Convertible Units.. Reimbursements due to our General Partner and its affiliates for services provided to us or on our behalf reduce cash available for distribution to our common unitholders. The amount and timing of such reimbursements will be determined by our General Partner.. We reimburse our General Partner and its affiliates, including Holdings, for expenses they incur and payments they make on our behalf. Under our Partnership Agreement, we reimburse our General Partner and its affiliates for certain expenses incurred on our behalf including, among other items, compensation expense for all employees required to manage and operate our business. Our Partnership Agreement provides that our General Partner will determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to us.  The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our General Partner and its affiliates reduce the amount of available cash to pay cash distributions to our common unitholders.. Our Partnership Agreement replaces our General Partner's fiduciary duties to holders of our common and subordinated units with contractual standards governing its duties.. Our Partnership Agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary duties to which our General Partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replaces those duties with several different contractual standards. For example, our Partnership Agreement permits our General Partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our General Partner, free of any duties to us and our unitholders other than the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing, which means that a court will enforce the reasonable expectations of the partners where the language in the Partnership Agreement does not provide for a clear course of action. This entitles our General Partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Examples of decisions that our General Partner may make in its individual capacity include:. • how to allocate corporate opportunities among us and its affiliates;. • whether to exercise its limited call right;. • whether to seek approval of the resolution of a conflict of interest by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our General Partner;. • how to exercise its voting rights with respect to the units it owns;. 39. Table of contents. • whether to elect to reset target distribution levels;. • whether to transfer the incentive distribution rights or any units it owns to a third party; and. • whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the Partnership or amendment to the Partnership Agreement.. By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder agrees to become bound by the provisions in the Partnership Agreement, including the provisions discussed above.. Our Partnership Agreement restricts the rights of holders of our common and subordinated units with respect to actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. Our Partnership Agreement contains provisions that restrict the rights of unitholders with respect to actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our Partnership Agreement provides that:. • whenever our General Partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our General Partner, our General Partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, meaning it subjectively believed that the decision was in the best interest of us and our unitholders, and except as specifically provided by our Partnership Agreement, will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our Partnership Agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity;. • our General Partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a General Partner so long as such decisions are made in good faith;. • our General Partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or their assignees resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our General Partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in intentional fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and. • our General Partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the Partnership Agreement (including any duties to us or our unitholders) if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is:. <U+25E6> approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our General Partner, although our General Partner is not obligated to seek such approval;. <U+25E6> approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our General Partner and its affiliates, although our General Partner is not obligated to seek such approval;. <U+25E6> determined by the board of directors of our General Partner to be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties; or. <U+25E6> determined by the board of directors of our General Partner to be fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us.. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our General Partner must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the conflicts committee and the board of directors of our General Partner determines that the resolution or course of action taken with respect to the affiliate transaction or conflict of interest satisfies either of the standards set forth in the final two subclauses above, then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, the board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption.. Our Partnership Agreement provides that our conflicts committee may be comprised of one or more independent directors, though we currently have a three member committee of independent directors. If we establish a conflicts committee with only one independent director, your interests may not be as well served as if we had a conflicts committee comprised of at least two independent directors. A single-member conflicts committee would not have the benefit of discussion with, and input from, other independent directors.. 40. Table of contents. Our General Partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our General Partner's incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of our General Partner's board or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations.. Our General Partner has the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (48.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our cash distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our General Partner, the minimum quarterly distribution will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution per unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the \"reset minimum quarterly distribution\"), and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution.. We anticipate that our General Partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion; however, it is possible that our General Partner could exercise this reset election at a time when we are experiencing declines in our aggregate cash distributions or at a time when our General Partner expects that we will experience declines in our aggregate cash distributions in the foreseeable future. In such situations, our General Partner may be experiencing, or may expect to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may therefore desire to be issued common units, which are entitled to specified priorities with respect to our distributions and which therefore may be more advantageous for our General Partner to own in lieu of the right to receive incentive distribution payments based on target distribution levels that are less certain to be achieved in the then-current business environment. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience dilution in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued common units to our General Partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels related to our General Partner's incentive distribution rights.. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our General Partner or its directors.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders have no right on an annual or ongoing basis to elect our General Partner or its board of directors.  The board of directors of our General Partner will be chosen by Holdings. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our General Partner, they will have little ability to remove our General Partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Our Partnership Agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management.. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot currently remove our General Partner without its consent.. Our unitholders are currently unable to remove our General Partner without its consent because our General Partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding limited partner units voting together as a single class is required to remove our General Partner. As of February 23, 2018, Holdings indirectly owns an approximate 72.2% limited partner interest in us. Also, if our General Partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and units held by our General Partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically convert into common units and any existing arrearages on our common units will be extinguished. A removal of our General Partner under these circumstances would adversely affect our common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over our subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Cause is narrowly defined to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our General Partner liable for actual fraud or willful misconduct in its capacity as our General Partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of our General Partner because of the unitholder's dissatisfaction with our General Partner's performance in managing us will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period and the conversion of all subordinated units to common units. 41. Table of contents. Our Partnership Agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units.. Unitholders' voting rights are further restricted by a provision of our Partnership Agreement providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our General Partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our General Partner, cannot vote on any matter.. Our General Partner interest or the control of our General Partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our General Partner may transfer its General Partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our Partnership Agreement does not restrict the ability of Holdings to transfer all or a portion of its ownership interest in our General Partner to a third party. The new owner of our General Partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our General Partner with its own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions made by the board of directors and officers. This effectively permits a \"change of control\" without the vote or consent of the unitholders.. Subject to the terms of the Merger Agreement, we may issue additional units without your approval, which would dilute your existing ownership interests. For example, in connection with the Fifth Amendment, our parent made a $17 million contribution to us to pay down the outstanding balance under the Third A&R Revolving Credit Agreement and for general corporate purposes, in exchange for 11,486,486 common units, which diluted the common unitholders.. Our Partnership Agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:. • our existing unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;. • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease;. • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase;. • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase;. • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and. • the market price of the common units may decline.. Holdings may sell our units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units.. As of February 23, 2018, Holdings held an aggregate of 26,492,074 common units, 12,213,713 subordinated units and 18,656,071 Class B Convertible Units.  All of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period. The Class B Convertible Units will convert into common units when we make a distribution for any quarter to holders of common units equal to or more than $0.44 per common unit, when we generate class B distributable cash flow, and paid, the declared distribution on all outstanding units for the two prior quarters, and when we forecast paying a distribution equal to or more than $0.44 per outstanding unit from forecasted class B distributable cash flow on all outstanding units for the next two quarters. The sale of these units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop.. Our General Partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our General Partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our General Partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price that is not less than their then-current market price, as calculated pursuant to the terms of our Partnership Agreement. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units. As of February 23, 2018, Holdings owned 54.5% of our 48,623,615 outstanding common units. At the end of the subordination period and following the conversion of the Class B Convertible Units, assuming no additional issuances of common units (other than upon the conversion of the subordinated units and the Class B Convertible Units), Holdings will own approximately 72.2% of our outstanding common units.. 42. Table of contents. Your liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business.. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. We are organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. You could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if you were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that:. • we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state's partnership statute; or. • your right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace our General Partner, to approve some amendments to our Partnership Agreement or to take other actions under our Partnership Agreement constitute \"control\" of our business.. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them.. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable both for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to us that were known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for those obligations that were unknown if the liabilities could have been determined from the Partnership Agreement. Neither liabilities to partners on account of our interest nor liabilities that are non-recourse to us are counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. We may be unable to grow through the acquisitions of current or future assets of Holdings, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase distributions to our unitholders. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, we are restricted from making acquisitions at this time.. Holdings is under no obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase its current or future assets, and the board of directors of its general partner owes fiduciary duties to its members, and not our unitholders, in making any decision to offer us this opportunity. Likewise, we are not required to purchase any additional assets from Holdings.. The consummation of any such purchases will depend upon, among other things, our ability to reach an agreement with Holdings regarding the terms of such purchases (which will require the resolution of the conflict of interest pursuant to our Partnership Agreement) and our ability to finance such purchases on acceptable terms. Additionally, Holdings may be limited in its ability to consummate sales of additional portions of such business to us by the terms of its existing or future credit facilities. Furthermore, our revolving credit facility includes covenants that may limit our ability to finance acquisitions. If a sale by Holdings of any additional assets would be restricted or prohibited by such covenants, we or Holdings may be required to seek waivers of such provisions or refinance those debt instruments in order to consummate a sale, neither of which may be accomplished timely, if at all. If we are unable to grow through additional acquisitions of Holdings's current or future assets, our ability to maintain or increase distributions to our unitholders may be limited.. Risks Related to our Common Units. We may not be able to continue to comply with the New York Stock Exchange's requirements for continued listing.. No assurances can be made that we will in fact be able to continue to comply and that our common units will remain listed on the New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\"). If our common units are delisted from the NYSE, such delisting could negatively impact the market price of our common units, reduce the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common units, and limit our ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future, and might negatively impact our reputation and, as a consequence, our business.. The price of our common units may be adversely affected by the future issuance and sale of additional common units, or by our announcement that such issuances and sales may occur.. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or sales of our common units, including in connection with future acquisitions or capital raising activities, or the effect, if any, that such issuances or sales may have on the market price of our common units. The issuance and sale of substantial amounts of common units or the announcement that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common units.. 43. Table of contents. Tax Risks. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to entity-level taxation, or if we were otherwise subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 21%, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions, or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. In addition, changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Therefore, if we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjected to a material amount of entity-level taxation, there would be material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. Our Partnership Agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, members of the U.S. Congress and the President of the United States periodically have considered substantive changes to existing federal income tax laws that would affect the tax treatment of certain publicly traded partnerships, including the elimination of partnership tax treatment for publicly traded partnerships.. On January 24, 2017, the U.S. Treasury Department and the IRS published final regulations regarding qualifying income under Section 7704(d)(1)(E) of the Code. We do not believe these regulations adversely affect our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to satisfy the requirements of the exception pursuant to which we are treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any such changes will ultimately be enacted. However, it is possible that a change in law could affect us, and any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units.. The effects of the budget reconciliation act commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (hereinafter, \"Tax Cuts. and Jobs Act\") on our business have not yet been fully analyzed and could have an adverse effect on our net income.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was signed into law and made significant changes to the U.S. Internal. Revenue Code. Such changes include a reduction in the corporate and individual tax rates and limitations on certain deductions. and credits, among other changes. Certain of these changes could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, adverse. changes in the underlying profitability and financial outlook of our operations or changes in tax law could lead to changes in our valuation allowances against deferred tax assets on our consolidated balance sheets, which could materially affect our results of operations. We are in the process of analyzing the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and its possible effects on us.. 44. Table of contents. Unitholders' share of our income is taxable to them for federal income tax purposes even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us.. Because a unitholder is treated as a partner to whom we allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, a unitholder's allocable share of our taxable income is taxable to it, which may require the payment of federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, on their share of our taxable income even if the unitholder receives no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income.. We may engage in transactions to de-lever the Partnership and manage our liquidity that may result in income and gain to our unitholders. For example, if we sell assets and use the proceeds to repay existing debt or fund capital expenditures, you may be allocated taxable income and gain resulting from the sale. Further, taking advantage of opportunities to reduce our existing debt, such as debt exchanges, debt repurchases, or modifications of our existing debt could result in \"cancellation of indebtedness income\" (also referred to as \"COD income\") being allocated to our unitholders as taxable income. Unitholders may be allocated COD income, and income tax liabilities arising therefrom may exceed cash distributions. The ultimate effect of any such allocations will depend on the unitholder's individual tax position with respect to its units. Unitholders are encouraged to consult their tax advisors with respect to the consequences of potential COD income or other transactions that may result in income and gain to unitholders.. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Recently enacted legislation alters the procedures for assessing and collecting taxes due for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, in a manner that could substantially reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take or may take, and the IRS's positions may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all the positions we take or may take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may have a materially adverse impact on the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our General Partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution.  Adjustments resulting from an IRS audit may require each unitholder to adjust a prior year's tax liability, and possibly may result in an audit of his or her return.  Any audit of a unitholder's return could result in adjustments not related to our returns, as well as those related to our returns.. Recently enacted legislation applicable to us for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 alters the procedures for auditing large partnerships and also alters the procedures for assessing and collecting taxes due (including applicable penalties and interest) as a result of an audit. Unless we are eligible to (and choose to) elect to issue revised Schedules K-1 to our partners with respect to an audited and adjusted return, the IRS may assess and collect taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us in the year in which the audit is completed under the new rules. If we are required to pay taxes, penalties and interest as a result of audit adjustments, cash available for distribution to our unitholders may be substantially reduced. In addition, because payment would be due for the taxable year in which the audit is completed, unitholders during that taxable year would bear the expense of the adjustment even if they were not unitholders during the audited taxable year.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be reduced.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns, it may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us. Generally, we expect to elect to have our general partner and our unitholders take such audit adjustment into account in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so (and will choose to do so) under all circumstances, or that we will be able to (or choose to) effect corresponding shifts in state income or similar tax liability resulting from the IRS adjustment in states in which we do business in the year under audit or in the adjustment year. If we are unable (or otherwise fail to choose) to have our general partner and our unitholders take such audit adjustment into account in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, our current unitholders may bear some or all of the tax liability resulting from such audit adjustment, even if such unitholders did not own units in us during the tax year under audit. If, as a result of any such audit. 45. Table of contents. adjustment, we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be reduced. These rules are not applicable to us for tax years beginning on or prior to December 31, 2017.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.. If our unitholders sell common units, they will recognize gain or loss for federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of their allocable share of our net taxable income decrease their tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units they sell will, in effect, become taxable income to them if they sell such common units at a price greater than their tax basis in those common units, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on any sale of their common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if our unitholders sell their common units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale.. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investments in our common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, is unrelated business taxable income and is taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons are reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons are required to file federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income.. We treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from their sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge aspects of our proration method, and, if successful, we would be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The U.S. Department of Treasury and the IRS recently issued Treasury regulations that permit publicly traded partnerships to use a monthly simplifying convention that is similar to ours, but they do not specifically authorize all aspects of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to successfully challenge this method, we could be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, such unitholder would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units, he may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income.. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining a unitholder's allocation of income, gain, loss and deduction. The IRS may challenge these methodologies or the resulting allocations, and such a challenge could adversely affect the value of the common units.. 46. Table of contents. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, in certain circumstances, including when we issue additional units, we must determine the fair market value of our assets. Although we may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair market value estimates using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our assets. The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount, character and timing of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of taxable gain from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. As a result of investing in our common units, our unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties.. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders are likely to be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or control property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently conduct business in Alabama, Mississippi and Texas. Some of these states currently impose a personal income tax on individuals. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may control assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is our unitholders' responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns.. Compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance.. We are subject to extensive tax laws and regulations, including federal and state income taxes and transactional taxes such as sales/use, payroll, franchise and ad valorem taxes. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted that could result in increased tax expenditures in the future. Many of these tax liabilities are subject to audits by the respective taxing authority. These audits may result in additional taxes as well as interest and penalties.. Risks Relating To The Merger. AMID and the Partnership may be unable to obtain the regulatory clearances required to complete the Merger or, in order to do so, AMID and the Partnership may be required to comply with material restrictions or satisfy material conditions.. AMID and the Partnership received early termination of the applicable waiting period under the HSR Act on December 8, 2017. The Merger may still be reviewed under antitrust statutes of other governmental authorities, including by state regulatory authorities such as the MPSC. The closing of the Merger is subject to the condition that there is no law, injunction, judgment or ruling by a governmental authority in effect enjoining, restraining, preventing or prohibiting the Merger. We can provide no assurance that all required regulatory clearances will be obtained. If a governmental authority asserts objections to the Merger, AMID or the Partnership may be required to divest assets in order to obtain antitrust clearance. There can be no assurance as to the cost, scope or impact of the actions that may be required to obtain antitrust or other regulatory approval. If we take such actions, it could be detrimental to us. These conditions or changes could also delay or materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flow.. State attorneys general could seek to block or challenge the Merger as they deem necessary or desirable in the public interest at any time, including after completion of the Transaction. In addition, in some circumstances, a third party could initiate a private action under antitrust laws challenging or seeking to enjoin the Merger, before or after it is completed. We may not prevail and may incur significant costs in defending or settling any action under the antitrust laws.. The Mississippi Public Services Commission (\"MPSC\") requires that when a company proposes a change of control of a certificate of public convenience and necessity (\"CPCN\"), the company must obtain an order from the MPSC approving the sale and transfer of the CPCN. Southcross Mississippi Industrial Gas Sales, L.P., an indirect subsidiary of the Partnership, has a CPCN that, subject to the approval of the MPSC, will be transferred in connection with the Transaction. The MPSC could decide not to issue an order authorizing the transfer of the CPCN. Moreover, there is no guarantee that, if granted, such order will be granted in a timely manner or will be free from potentially burdensome conditions.. 47. Table of contents. In the event that the Merger Agreement is terminated prior to the completion of the Merger, we could incur significant transaction costs that could materially impact its financial performance and results of operations.. We will incur significant transaction costs, including legal, accounting, financial advisory, filing, printing, and other costs relating to the Merger. The Merger Agreement provides that upon termination of the Merger Agreement under certain specified circumstances, we will be required to pay all of the reasonable documented out-of-pocket expenses incurred by AMID in connection with the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby up to a maximum amount of $500,000. In addition, if the Merger Agreement is terminated due to an adverse recommendation change by the Board of Directors of our General Partner having occurred, we may be required to pay AMID a termination fee of $2 million, less any expenses previously paid by the Partnership. We will also be required to pay AMID a termination fee in the event that we enter into an agreement with respect to an alternative proposal within 12 months after the date that the Merger Agreement is terminated for certain reasons if such alternative proposal was publicly proposed prior to the special meeting of our unitholders called with respect to the Merger or prior to the termination of the Merger Agreement in the event that such special meeting never occurred. Any fees due as a result of termination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. We may have difficulty attracting, motivating and retaining executives and other employees in light of the Merger.. Uncertainty about the effect of the Merger on our employees may have an adverse effect on us. This uncertainty may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate personnel until the Merger is completed. Employee retention and recruitment may be particularly challenging prior to the completion of the Merger, as current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the Partnership. In addition, we may have to provide additional compensation in order to retain employees. If key employees depart or fail to accept employment with the Partnership or our subsidiaries due to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with us, our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected.. We are subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the Merger is pending, which could adversely affect our business and operations.. In connection with the pending Merger, it is possible that some customers, suppliers and other persons with whom we have business relationships may delay or defer certain business decisions or might decide to seek to terminate, change or renegotiate their relationship with us as a result of the Merger, which could negatively affect our revenues, earnings and cash available for distribution, as well as the market price of our common units, regardless of whether the Merger is completed.. In addition, the Merger Agreement restricts us and our subsidiaries, without AMID's consent, from taking specified actions until the Merger occurs or the Merger Agreement is terminated, including, without limitation: (i) making certain acquisitions and dispositions of assets or property; (ii) exceeding certain capital spending limits; (iii) incurring certain forms of indebtedness; (iv) issuing equity or equity equivalents; and (v) making distributions. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities or making other changes to our business prior to consummation of the Merger or termination of the Merger Agreement. Such limitations could negatively affect our businesses and operations prior to the completion of the Merger.. Furthermore, we expect that matters relating to the Merger and integration-related issues will place a significant burden on management, employees, and internal resources, which could otherwise have been devoted to other business opportunities. The diversion of management time on Merger-related issues could affect our financial results.. We are subject to litigation related to the proposed Merger.. In connection with the proposed Merger, purported unitholders of the Partnership have filed putative unitholder class action lawsuits against the Partnership, the Board of Directors of our General Partner and AMID, among others. Among other remedies, the plaintiffs seek to enjoin the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, including the Merger. It is possible that additional claims beyond those that have already been filed will be brought by the current plaintiffs or by others in an effort to enjoin the Merger or seek monetary relief from the Partnership.  We are not able to predict the outcome of these actions, or others, nor can we predict the amount of time and expense that will be required to resolve the actions.  An unfavorable resolution of any such litigation surrounding the proposed Merger could delay or prevent the consummation of the Merger.  In addition, the cost to the Partnership of defending the actions, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial.  Such actions could also divert the attention of our management and resources from day-to-day operations.. 48. Table of contents. Failure to complete the Merger could negatively impact the market price of our common units.. Failure to complete the Merger may negatively impact the future trading price of our common units. If the Merger is not completed, the market price of our common units may decline to the extent that the current market price of our common units reflects a market assumption that the Merger will be completed. Additionally, if the Merger is not completed, we will have incurred significant costs, as well as the diversion of the time and attention of management. A failure to complete the Merger may also result in negative publicity, litigation against the Partnership or our directors and officers, and a negative impression of the Partnership in the investment community. The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, and our unit price.. The Merger is subject to conditions, including certain conditions that may not be satisfied on a timely basis, if at all. Failure to complete the Merger, or significant delays in completing the Merger, could negatively affect the trading prices of AMID Common Units and our Common Units and our future business and financial results of AMID and SXE.. The completion of the Merger is subject to a number of conditions. The completion of the Merger is not assured and is subject to risks, including the risk that approval of the Merger by our unitholders or by governmental agencies is not obtained or that other closing conditions are not satisfied. If the Merger is not completed, or if there are significant delays in completing the Merger, the trading prices of AMID common units and our common units and the respective future business and financial results of AMID and us could be negatively affected, and each of them will be subject to several risks, including the following:. • the parties may be liable for damages to one another under the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement;. •negative reactions from the financial markets, including declines in the price of AMID common units or our common units due to the fact that current prices may reflect a market assumption that the Merger will be completed;. •and the attention of AMID's and our management will have been diverted to the Merger rather than each organization's own operations and pursuit of other opportunities that could have been beneficial to that organization.. The Merger will not occur if the conditions to closing the Contribution under the Contribution Agreement, including AMID refinancing our indebtedness, are not satisfied and the closing of the Contribution does not occur or if the Contribution Agreement is otherwise terminated.. It is a condition to the closing of the Merger under the terms of the Merger Agreement that the Contribution will have closed in accordance with the Contribution Agreement. Additionally, the Merger Agreement will terminate automatically, and the Merger will not occur, if the Contribution Agreement is terminated. The completion of the Contribution is subject to a number of conditions, is not assured and is subject to risks, including the risk that approval by governmental agencies is not obtained or that other closing conditions are not satisfied. Additionally, Holdings may not be able to force AMID to complete the Contribution if AMID has not obtained sufficient financing to make the cash payments required to be made at the closing of the Contribution, including for the refinancing of our indebtedness, in which case AMID may be required under certain circumstances to pay a reverse termination fee of $17 million to Holdings. AMID does not have in place committed financing sufficient to make the payments at the closing of the Contribution, and there can be no assurances that AMID will be able to obtain such financing on acceptable terms or at all. Any such failure to obtain financing would likely result in the termination of the Contribution Agreement and Merger Agreement and the failure to complete the Merger."
