[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in Part IV, Item 15. \"Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules\" of this Form 10-K.. The business, financial condition and operating results of the Company can be affected by a number of factors, whether currently known or unknown, including but not limited to those described below. Any one or more of such factors could directly or indirectly cause the Company's actual results of operations and financial condition to vary materially from past or anticipated future results of operations and financial condition. Any of these factors, in whole or in part, could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price.. Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting the Company's financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods.. We are subject to intense competition that could constrain our ability to gain business and adversely impact our profitability.. We believe that competition is intense in the parking facility management, valet, transportation services and event management businesses, including other ancillary services that we offer. The low cost of entry into the parking facility management, valet, transportation services and event management businesses have led to strongly competitive, fragmented markets consisting of various sized entities, ranging from small local or single lot operators to large regional and national businesses and multi-facility operators, as well as governmental entities that choose not to outsource their parking operations. Competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements, devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their services or develop technology that is as or more successful than our proprietary technology. We provide nearly all of our services under contracts, many of which are obtained through competitive bidding, and many of our competitors also have long-standing relationships with our clients. Providers of parking facility management services have traditionally competed on the basis of cost and quality of service. As we have worked to establish ourselves as principal members of the industry, we compete predominately on the basis of high levels of service and strong relationships. We may not be able to, or may choose not to, compete with certain competitors on the basis of price. As a result, a greater proportion of our clients may switch to other service providers or self-manage. Furthermore, these strong competitive pressures could impede our success in bidding for profitable business and our ability to increase prices even as costs rise, thereby reducing margins.. Changing consumer preferences may lead to a decline in parking demand, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Ride sharing services such as Uber and Lyft and car sharing services like Zipcar, along with the potential for driverless cars, may lead to a decline in parking demand in cities and urban areas. While we devote considerable effort and resources to analyze and respond to consumer preference and changes in the markets in which we operate, consumer preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and can change rapidly. Additionally, changes in consumer behaviors by using mobile phone applications and on-line parking reservation services that help drivers reserve parking with garage, lots and individual owner spaces cannot be predicted with certainty and could change current customers' parking preferences.  If we are unable to anticipate and respond to trends in the consumer marketplace and the industry, including but not limited to market displacement by livery service companies, car sharing companies and changing technologies, it could constrain our business and have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business success depends on our ability to preserve long-term client relationships.. We primarily provide services pursuant to agreements that are cancelable by either party upon 30-days' notice. As we generally incur higher initial costs on new contracts, our business associated with long-term client relationships is generally more profitable than short-term client relationships. If we lose a significant number of long-term clients, our profitability could be negatively impacted, even if we gain equivalent revenues from new clients.. We may have difficulty obtaining coverage for certain insurable risks or obtaining coverage for certain insurable risks at a reasonable cost, and we are subject to volatility associated with our high deductible / retention insured and self-insured programs including the possibility that changes in estimates of ultimate insurance losses could result in a material change against our operating results.. We use a combination of insured and self-insured programs to cover workers compensation, general liability, automobile liability, property damage and other insurable risks and provide liability and workers' compensation insurance coverage consistent with our obligations to our clients under our various management contracts and leases.  We are responsible for claims in excess of our insurance policies' limits, and while we endeavor to purchase insurance coverage that is appropriate to our assessment of risk, we are unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature or magnitude of claims or direct or consequential damages.  We are obligated to reimburse our insurance carriers for, or pay directly, each loss incurred up to the amount of a specified deductible or self-insured retention amount. We also purchase property insurance that provides coverage for loss or damage to our property, and in some cases our clients' property, as well as business interruption coverage for lost operating income and certain associated expenses. The deductible or retention applicable to any given loss under the property insurance policies varies based upon the. 11. Table of Contents. insured values and the peril that causes the loss. Our financial statements reflect our funding of all such obligations based upon guidance and evaluation received from third-party insurance professionals. There can be no assurance, however, that the ultimate amount of our obligations will not exceed the amount presently funded or accrued, in which case we would need to set aside additional funds to reserve for any such excess.. The determination of required insurance reserves is dependent upon significant actuarial judgments.  We use the results of actuarial studies to estimate insurance rates and insurance reserves for future periods and adjust reserves as appropriate for the current year and prior years.  Changes in insurance reserves as a result of periodic evaluations of the liabilities can cause swings in operating results that may not be indicative of the operations of our ongoing business.  Actual experience related to our insurance reserves can cause us to change our estimates for reserves and any such changes may materially impact results, causing significant volatility in our operating results.  Additionally, our obligations could increase if we receive a greater number of insurance claims, or if the severity of, or the administrative costs associated with, those claims generally increase.. Recent consolidation of entities in the insurance industry could impact our ability to obtain or renew policies at competitive rates. Should we be unable to obtain or renew our excess, umbrella, or other commercial insurance policies at competitive rates, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, as would the incurrence of catastrophic uninsured claims or the inability or refusal of our insurance carriers to pay otherwise insured claims.  Further, to the extent that we self-insure our losses, deterioration in our loss control and/or continuing claim management efforts could increase the overall costs of claims within our retained limits.  A material change in our insurance costs due to changes in frequency of claims, the severity of claims, the costs of excess/umbrella premiums, regulatory changes, or consolidation of entities within the insurance industry could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. We do not maintain insurance coverage for all possible risks.. We maintain a comprehensive portfolio of insurance policies to help protect us against loss or damage incurred from a wide variety of insurable risks. Each year, we review with our professional insurance advisers whether the insurance policies and associated coverages that we maintain are sufficient to adequately protect us from the various types of risk to which we are exposed in the ordinary course of business. That analysis takes into account various pertinent factors such as the likelihood that we would incur a material loss from any given risk, as well as the cost of obtaining insurance coverage against any such risk. There can be no assurance that we may not sustain a material loss for which we do not maintain any, or adequate, insurance coverage.. Our management contracts and leases expose us to certain risks.. The loss or renewal on less favorable terms of a substantial number of management contracts or leases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A material reduction in the operating income associated with the integrated services we provide under management contracts and leases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our management contracts are typically for a term of one to three years, although the contracts may often be terminated, without cause, on 30-days' notice or less, giving clients regular opportunities to attempt to negotiate a reduction in fees or other allocated costs. Any loss of a significant number of clients could in the aggregate materially adversely affect our operating results.. We are particularly exposed to increases in costs for locations that we operate under leases because we are generally responsible for all the operating expenses of our leased locations. During the first and fourth quarters of each year, seasonality generally impacts our performance with regard to moderating revenues, with the reduced levels of travel most clearly reflected in the parking activity associated with our airport and hotel businesses as well as increases in certain costs of parking services, such as snow removal, all of which negatively affects gross profit.. Deterioration in economic conditions in general could reduce the demand for parking and ancillary services and, as a result, reduce our earnings and adversely affect our financial condition.. Adverse changes in global, national and local economic conditions could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, our business operations tend to be concentrated in large urban areas. Many of our customers are workers who commute by car to their places of employment in these urban centers. Our business could be materially adversely affected to the extent that weak economic conditions or demographic factors have resulted in the elimination of jobs and high unemployment in these large urban areas. In addition, increased unemployment levels, the movement of white-collar jobs from urban centers to suburbs or out of North America entirely, increased office vacancies in urban areas, movement toward home office alternatives or lower consumer spending could reduce consumer demand for our services.. Adverse changes in economic conditions could also lead to a decline in parking at airports and commercial facilities, including facilities owned by retail operators and hotels. In particular, reductions in parking at leased facilities can lower our profit because a decrease in revenue would be exacerbated by fixed costs that we must pay under our leases.. If adverse economic conditions reduce discretionary spending, business travel or other economic activity that fuels demand for our services, our earnings could be reduced. Adverse changes in local and national economic conditions could also depress prices for our services or cause clients to cancel their agreements to purchase our services.. 12. Table of Contents. We are increasingly dependent on information technology, and potential disruption, cyber-attacks, cyber terrorism and security breaches present risks that could harm our business.. We are increasingly centralized and dependent on automated information technology systems to manage and support a variety of business processes and activities. In addition, a portion of our business operations is conducted electronically, increasing the risk of attack or interception that could cause loss or misuse of data, system failures or disruption of operations. Improper activities by third parties, exploitation of encryption technology, new data-hacking tools and discoveries and other events or developments may result in a future compromise or breach of our networks, payment card terminals or other payment systems. In particular, the techniques used by criminals to obtain unauthorized access to sensitive data change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target; accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. Additionally, our systems are subject to damage or interruption from system conversions, power outages, computer or telecommunications failures, computer viruses and malicious attack, security breaches and catastrophic events.  If our systems are damaged or fail to function properly, we may incur substantial repair and/or replacement costs, experience data loss or theft and impediments to our ability to manage customer transactions, which could adversely affect our operations and our results of operations. In addition, there is a risk of business interruption, reputational damage and potential legal liability damages from leakage of confidential information. The occurrence of acts of cyber terrorism such as website defacement, denial of automated payment services, sabotage of our proprietary on-demand technology or the use of electronic social media to disseminate unfounded or otherwise harmful allegations to our reputation, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any business interruptions or damage to our reputation could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. While we maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses potentially incurred and would not remedy damage to our reputation.  We have also implemented additional security measures including, for example, forcing our vendors to use two-factor authentication for remote access.. We do not have control over security measures taken by third-party vendors hired by our clients to prevent unauthorized access to electronic and other confidential information. There can be no assurance that other third-party payment processing vendors will not suffer a similar attack in the future, that unauthorized parties will not gain access to personal financial information, or that any such incident will be discovered in a timely manner.. Adverse litigation judgments or settlements resulting from legal proceedings in which we may be involved in the normal course of business could affect our operations and financial condition.. In the normal course of business, we are from time to time involved in various legal proceedings. The outcome of these legal proceedings cannot be predicted. It is possible that an unfavorable outcome of some or all of the matters could cause us to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. Any significant adverse litigation, judgments or settlements could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are subject to a number of ongoing legal proceedings, and we may incur substantial expenses defending such matters and may have judgments levied against us that are substantial and may not be covered by previously established reserves.. We have incurred indebtedness that could adversely affect our financial condition.. Failure to comply with covenants or to meet payment obligations under our credit facility could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations.. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, which could cause the related risks to intensify. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before their respective maturities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including indebtedness under our Restated Credit Facility, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to refinance our debt, we may default under the terms of our indebtedness, which could lead to an acceleration of debt repayment. We do not expect that we could repay all of our outstanding indebtedness if the repayment of such indebtedness was accelerated.. We must comply with public and private regulations that may impose significant costs on us.. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, current or previous owners or operators of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in their properties. This applies to properties we either own or operate. These laws typically impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. We may be potentially liable for such costs as a result of our operation of parking facilities. Additionally, we hold a partial ownership interest in four of these parking facilities, and companies that we acquired in previous years may have owned a large number of properties that we did not acquire. We may now be liable for such costs as a result of such previous and current ownership. In addition, from time to time we are involved in environmental issues at certain locations or in connection with our operations. The cost of defending against claims of liability, or remediation of a contaminated property, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, several state and local laws have been passed in recent years that encourage carpooling and the use of mass transit. Laws and regulations that reduce the number of cars and vehicles being driven could adversely impact our business.. In connection with certain transportation services provided to our clients, including shuttle bus operations, we provide the vehicles and the drivers to operate these transportation services. The U.S. Department of Transportation and various state agencies exercise broad powers over these transportation services, including, licensing and authorizations, safety and insurance requirements. Our. 13. Table of Contents. employee drivers must also comply with the safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Transportation, including those related to drug and alcohol testing and service hours. We may become subject to new and more restrictive federal and state regulations. Compliance with such regulations could hamper our ability to provide qualified drivers and increase our operating costs.. We are also subject to consumer credit laws and credit card industry rules and regulations relating to the processing of credit card transactions, including the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act and the Payment Card Data Security Standard. These laws and these industry standards impose substantial financial penalties for non-compliance.. In addition, we are subject to laws generally applicable to businesses, including but not limited to federal, state and local regulations relating to wage and hour matters, employee classification, mandatory healthcare benefits, unlawful workplace discrimination and whistle blowing. Any actual or alleged failure to comply with any regulation applicable to our business or any whistle-blowing claim, even if without merit, could result in costly litigation, regulatory action or otherwise harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We collect and remit sales/parking taxes and file tax returns for and on behalf of ourselves and our clients. We are affected by laws and regulations that may impose a direct assessment on us for failure to remit sales/parking taxes and filing of tax returns for ourselves and on behalf of our clients.. We cannot predict changes in laws and regulations made by the U.S. President, the U.S. President's Administration, or the current and future U.S. Congress, but we will monitor developments regarding legislation changes and regulatory shifts.. The financial difficulties or bankruptcy of one or more of our major clients could adversely affect our results.. Future revenue and our ability to collect accounts receivable depend, in part, on the financial strength of our clients. We estimate an allowance for accounts we do not consider collectible, and this allowance adversely impacts profitability. In the event that our clients experience financial difficulty, become unable to obtain financing or seek bankruptcy protection, our profitability would be further impacted by our failure to collect accounts receivable in excess of the estimated allowance. Additionally, our future revenue would be reduced by the loss of these clients or by the cancellation of leases or management contracts by clients in bankruptcy.. Our risk management and safety programs may not have the intended effect of allowing us to reduce our insurance costs for our insurance programs.. We continually attempt to mitigate the aforementioned risk that our insurance coverage may be inadequate through the implementation of company-wide safety and loss control efforts designed to decrease the incidence of accidents or events that might increase our exposure or liability.. Labor disputes could lead to loss of revenues or expense variations.. When one or more of our major collective bargaining agreements becomes subject to renegotiation or when we face union organizing drives, we may disagree with the union on important issues that, in turn, could lead to a strike, work slowdown or other job actions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew existing labor union contracts on acceptable terms. In such cases, there are no assurances that we would be able to staff sufficient employees for our short-term needs. A strike, work slowdown or other job action could in some cases disrupt us from providing services, resulting in reduced revenues. If declines in client service occur or if our clients are targeted for sympathy strikes by other unionized workers, contract cancellations could result. The result of negotiating a first time agreement or renegotiating an existing collective bargaining agreement could result in a substantial increase in labor and benefits expenses that we may be unable to pass through to clients. In addition, potential legislation could make it significantly easier for union organizing drives to be successful and could give third-party arbitrators the ability to impose terms of collective bargaining agreements upon us and a labor union if we are unable to agree with such union on the terms of a collective bargaining agreement. At December 31, 2017, approximately 30% of our employees were represented by labor unions and approximately 43% of our collective bargaining contracts are up for renewal in 2018, representing approximately 23% of our employees. In addition, at any given time, we may face a number of union organizing drives.. In addition, we make contributions to multi-employer benefit plans on behalf of certain employees covered by collective bargaining agreements, and we could be responsible for paying unfunded liabilities incurred by such benefit plans, which amount could be material.. Our business success depends on retaining senior management and attracting and retaining qualified personnel.. Our future performance depends on the continuing services and contributions of our senior management to execute on our acquisition and growth strategies and to identify and pursue new opportunities. Our future success also depends, in large degree, on our continued ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Any unplanned turnover in senior management or inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could have a negative effect on our results of operations.. Weather conditions, including natural disasters, or acts of terrorism could disrupt our business and services.. Weather conditions, including fluctuations in temperatures, hurricanes, snow or severe weather storms, earthquakes, drought, heavy flooding, mud slides, large scale forest fires, natural disasters or acts of terrorism may result in reduced revenues and gross profit. Weather conditions, natural disasters and acts of terrorism may also cause economic dislocations throughout the country.. 14. Table of Contents. Weather conditions, including natural disasters, could lead to reduced levels of travel and require increase in certain costs of parking services of which could negatively affect gross profit. In addition, terrorist attacks have resulted in, and may continue to result in, increased government regulation of airlines and airport facilities, including imposition of minimum distances between parking facilities and terminals, resulting in the elimination of currently managed parking facilities. We derive a significant percentage of our gross profit from parking facilities and parking related services in and around airports. The Federal Aviation Administration generally prohibits parking within 300 feet of airport terminals during periods of heightened security. While the prohibition is not currently in effect, there can be no assurance that this governmental prohibition will not again be reinstated. The existing regulations governing parking within 300 feet of airport terminals or future regulations may prevent us from using certain parking spaces. Reductions in the number of parking spaces and air travelers may reduce our revenue and cash flow for both our leased facilities and those facilities we operate under management contracts.. Because our business is affected by weather-related trends, typically in the first and fourth quarters of each year, our results may fluctuate from period to period, which could make it difficult to evaluate our business.. Weather conditions, including fluctuations in temperatures, snow or severe weather storms, heavy flooding, hurricanes or natural disasters, can negatively impact portions of our business. We periodically have experienced fluctuations in our quarterly results arising from a number of factors, including the following:. • reduced levels of travel during and as a result of severe weather conditions, which is reflected in lower revenue from urban, airport and hotel parking; and. • increased costs of parking services, such as snow removal.. These factors have typically had negative impacts to our gross profit in the first and fourth quarters and could cause gross profit reductions in the future, either in the first and fourth quarters or other quarters. As a result of these seasonal affects, our revenue and earnings in the second, third and fourth quarters generally tend to be higher than revenue and earnings in the first quarter. Accordingly, you should not consider our first quarter results as indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any full fiscal year. Fluctuations in our results could make it difficult to evaluate our business or cause instability in the market price of our common stock.. Risks relating to our acquisition strategy may adversely impact our results of operations.. In the past, a significant portion of our growth has been generated by acquisitions, and we expect to continue to acquire businesses in the future as part of our growth strategy. A slowdown in the pace or size of our acquisitions could lead to a slower growth rate. There can be no assurance that any acquisition we make in the future will provide us with the benefits that we anticipate when entering into the transaction. The process of integrating an acquired business may create unforeseen difficulties and expenses. The areas in which we may face risks in connection with any potential acquisition of a business include, but are not limited to:. • management time and focus may be diverted from operating our business to acquisition integration;. • clients or key employees of an acquired business may not remain, which could negatively impact our ability to grow that acquired business;. • integration of the acquired business's accounting, information technology, human resources, and other administrative systems may fail to permit effective management and expense reduction;. • implementing internal controls, procedures, and policies appropriate for a public company in an acquired business that lacked some of these controls, procedures, and policies may fail;. • additional indebtedness incurred as a result of an acquisition may impact our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows; and. • unanticipated or unknown liabilities may arise relating to the acquired business.. Goodwill impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Goodwill represents the excess purchase price of acquired businesses over the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. We have elected to make the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter, October 1st, the annual impairment assessment date for goodwill. However, we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to the annual assessment if we experience a significant under-performance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the use of acquired assets or our business strategy, and significant negative industry or economic trends. If the fair value of one of our reporting units is less than its carrying value, we would record impairment for the excess of the carrying amount over the estimated fair value. The valuation of our reporting units requires significant judgment in evaluation of recent indicators of market activity and estimated future cash flows, discount rates, and other factors. Any impairment could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken.. Impairment of long-lived assets may adversely affect our operating results.. We evaluate our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. These events and circumstances include, but are not limited to, a current expectation that. 15. Table of Contents. a long-lived asset will be disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life, a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which we use a long-lived asset or a change in its physical condition. When this occurs, a recoverability test is performed that compares the projected undiscounted cash flows from the use and eventual disposition of an asset or asset group to its carrying amount. If as a result of this test we conclude that the projected undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying amount, impairment would be recorded for the excess of the carrying amount over the estimated fair value. The amount of any impairment could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken.. State and municipal government clients may sell or enter into long-term leases of parking-related assets with our competitors or property owners and developers may redevelop existing locations for alternative uses.. In order to raise additional revenue, a number of state and municipal governments have either sold or entered into long-term leases of public assets or may be contemplating such transactions. The assets that are the subject of such transactions have included government-owned parking garages located in downtown commercial districts and parking operations at airports. The sale or long-term leasing of such government-owned parking assets to our competitors or clients of our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, property owners and developers may elect to redevelop existing locations for alternative uses other than parking or significantly reduce the number of existing spaces used for parking at those facilities in which we either lease or operate through a management contract.  Reductions in the number of parking spaces or potential loss of contracts due to redevelopment by property owners may reduce our gross profit and cash flow for both our leased facilities and those facilities in which we operate under management contracts.. Our ability to expand our business will be dependent upon the availability of adequate capital.. The rate of our expansion will depend in part on the availability of adequate capital, which in turn will depend in large part on cash flow generated by our business and the availability of equity and debt capital. In addition, our Restated Credit Facility contains provisions that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness and/or make substantial investments or acquisitions. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will have the ability to obtain adequate capital to expand our business.. The sureties for our performance bond program may elect not to provide us with new or renewal performance bonds for any reason.. As is customary in the industry, a surety provider can refuse to provide a bond principal with new or renewal surety bonds. If any existing or future surety provider refuses to provide us with surety bonds, either generally or because we are unwilling or unable to post collateral at levels sufficient to satisfy the surety's requirements, there can be no assurance that we would be able to find alternate providers on acceptable terms, or at all. Our inability to provide surety bonds could also result in the loss of existing contracts. Failure to find a provider of surety bonds, and our resulting inability to bid for new contracts or renew existing contracts, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. Federal health care reform legislation may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law in the U.S. (collectively, the \"Health Care Reform Laws\"). The Health Care Reform Laws require large employers to provide a minimum level of health insurance for all qualifying employees or pay penalties for not providing such coverage. In addition, the Health Care Reform Laws establish new regulations on health plans. Accordingly, we could incur costs associated with: (i) providing additional health insurance benefits; (ii) the payment of penalties if the minimum level of coverage is not provided; and (iii) the filing of additional information with the Internal Revenue Service to comply with these laws.. We cannot predict with certainty what additional healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the federal or state level, or what the ultimate effect of The Health Care Reform Laws or any future legislation or regulation will have on us. In addition, it is possible that the U.S. President's Administration, U.S. Senate and U.S. Congress may seek to modify, repeal or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the current health care reform legislation. Further, regardless of the prevailing political environment in the United States, if we are unable to raise the rates we charge our clients to cover expenses incurred due to the Health Care Reform Laws or other additional healthcare initiatives, our operating profit could be negatively impacted.. Changes in tax laws or rulings could materially affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. We are subject to income and non-income tax laws in the United States (federal, state and local) and other foreign jurisdictions, which include Canada and Puerto Rico. Changes in tax laws, regulations, tax rulings, administrative practices or changes in interpretations of existing laws, could materially affect our business.  Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, with or without notice, and the effective tax rate could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates or changes in tax laws or their interpretation, including the United States (federal, state and local), Canada and Puerto Rico. Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities and our effective tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, including the relative amount of our foreign earnings, including earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, the applicability of special tax regimes, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize the related tax benefit, entry into new businesses or geographies, changes to our existing business and operations, acquisitions and investments and how they are financed and changes in the relevant tax, accounting and other laws regulation,. 16. Table of Contents. administrative practices, principles and interpretations.  Additionally, adverse changes in the underlying profitability and financial outlook of our operations or changes in tax law, as discussed above, could lead to changes in our valuation allowances against deferred tax assets on our consolidated balance sheets, which could materially affect our results of operations.. We are also subject to tax audits and examinations by governmental authorities in the United States (federal, state and local), Canada and Puerto Rico. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for taxes and there can be no assurance as to the outcome of such tax audits and examinations.  Negative unexpected results from one or more such tax audits or examinations or our failure to sustain our reporting positions on examination could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our effective tax rate.. Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"2017 Tax Act\") was signed into law. The 2017 Tax Act includes significant changes to the corporate income tax system in the United States, including a federal corporate rate reduction from 35% to 21% and the transition of United States international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system, and a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of foreign earnings. The 2017 Tax Act requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required in U.S tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the 2017 Tax Act and significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced.   The U.S. Department of Treasury, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), foreign jurisdictions, state jurisdictions, and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the 2017 Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different than our interpretation.  As we complete our analysis of the 2017 Tax Act, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance, we may make adjustments to provisional amounts that we have recorded that may materially impact our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made.. Additionally, foreign and state jurisdictions may enact tax laws in response to the 2017 Tax Act that could result in further changes to taxation and materially affect our financial position and results of operations.. We have investments in joint ventures and may be subject to certain financial and operating risks with our joint venture investments.. We have acquired or invested in a number of joint ventures, and may acquire or enter into joint ventures with additional companies. These transactions create risks such as: (i) additional operating losses and expenses in the businesses acquired or joint ventures in which we have made investments, (ii) the dependence on the investee's accounting, financial reporting and similar systems, controls and processes of other entities whose financial performance is incorporated into our financial results due to our investment in that entity, (iii) potential unknown liabilities associated with a company we may acquire or in which we invest, (iv) requirements or obligations to commit and provide additional capital, equity, or credit support as required by the joint venture agreements, (v) the joint venture partner may be unable to perform its obligations as a result of financial or other difficulties or be unable to provide for additional capital, equity or credit support under the joint venture agreements and (vi) disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on the business. As a result of future acquisitions or joint ventures in which we may invest, we may need to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. In addition, valuations supporting our acquisitions or investments in joint ventures could change rapidly given the global economic environment and climate. We could determine that such valuations have experienced impairments, resulting in other-than-temporary declines in fair value which could adversely impact our financial results.. Actions of activist investors could disrupt our business.. Public companies have been the target of activist investors. In the event that a third-party, such as an activist investor, proposes to change our governance policies, board of directors, or other aspects of our operations, our review and consideration of such proposals may create a significant distraction for our management and employees. This could negatively impact our ability to execute our long-term growth plan and may require our management to expend significant time and resources. Such proposals may also create uncertainties with respect to our financial position and operations and may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees."
