[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in SGRP's common stock (\"SGRP Common Stock\") involves a high degree of risk and is subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, cautions, circumstances and other factors (\"Risks\") that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those projected or otherwise expected in any forward-looking statements or other information (see Forward-Looking Statements immediately preceding Part I, above).. The following are some of the important Risks faced by the Company, but they are not all of the Risks facing the Company. Those Risks listed below are in addition to the Risks and other information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report, the Proxy Statement and the Company's other SEC Reports, and all of them should be carefully considered in evaluating the Company and its business. If any of those Risks occur or become more significant (in whole or in part), or if any presently unknown Risk occurs, it could materially and adversely affect the results, actions, levels of activity, performance, achievements or condition of the Company (including its affiliates, assets, business, clients, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, performance, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results, risks, trends or condition).. You should carefully review and consider the following Risks as well as those made, contained or noted in or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report, the Proxy Statement or other applicable SEC Report, but you should not place undue reliance on any of them. All forward-looking statements and other information attributable to the Company or persons acting on its behalf are expressly subject to and qualified by all such Risks.. Those Risks reflect our expectations, views and assumptions only as of the date of this Annual Report, and the Company does not intend, assume any obligation, or promise to publicly update or revise any such Risk or information (in whole or in part), whether as a result of new information, new or worsening Risks or uncertainties, changed circumstances, future events, recognition, or otherwise.. -12-. Dependence on Largest Customer and Large Retail Chains. As discussed above in Company's Customer Base, the Company currently does not have a significant customer concentration. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain new business, renew existing client contracts at the same or higher levels of pricing or that our current clients will not turn to competitors, cease operations, elect to self-operate or terminate contracts with us. In addition, consolidation by the Company's clients in the industries it serves could result in our losing business if the combined entity chooses a different provider, and the bankruptcy of a significant customer could result in the loss of substantial receivables or the return of substantial recent payments. The loss of any of its customers, the loss of the ability to provide merchandising and marketing services in those chains, the loss of substantial receivables or payments, or the failure to attract new large clients could significantly decrease the Company's revenues and such decreased revenues could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its performance or condition (including its affiliates, assets, business, clients, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, performance, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results, risks, trends or condition), whether actual or as planned, intended, anticipated, estimated or otherwise expected.. Dependence on Trend Towards Outsourcing. The business and growth of the Company depends in large part on the continued trend toward outsourcing of merchandising and marketing services, which the Company believes has resulted from the consolidation of retailers and manufacturers, as well as the desire to seek outsourcing specialists to reduce fixed operation expenses and concentrate internal staff on customer service and sales. There can be no assurance that this trend in outsourcing will continue, as companies may elect to perform such services internally. A significant change in the direction of this trend generally, or a trend in the retail, manufacturing or business services industry not to use, or to reduce the use of, outsourced marketing services such as those provided by the Company, could significantly decrease the Company's revenues and such decreased revenues could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its performance or condition (including its affiliates, assets, business, clients, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, performance, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results, risks, trends or condition), whether actual or as planned, intended, anticipated, estimated or otherwise expected.. Dependence on Retailers with Physical Stores. Retailers with physical store locations are facing increasing consolidation and competition from virtual stores. Some retailers with physical stores have failed, others are struggling, and others are merging in this highly competitive environment. Although the Company's merchandising services help physical retailers in successfully competing against virtual stores, and the Company provides assembly and other services utilized by online retailers, the Company's business and growth depends in large part on the continuing need for in-store merchandising of products and the continuing success of retailers with physical store locations. There can be no assurance that the in-store merchandising of products will increase or even continue at current levels or that retailers with physical store locations will continue to compete successfully in those stores, and some retailers are shifting their sales focus to their virtual online stores. A significant decrease in such need for in-store merchandising or success of such physical stores could significantly decrease the Company's revenues and such decreased revenues could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its performance or condition (including its affiliates, assets, business, clients, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, performance, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results, risks, trends or condition), whether actual or as planned, intended, anticipated, estimated or otherwise expected.. Failure to Successfully Compete. The merchandising and marketing services industry is highly competitive and the Company has competitors that are larger (or part of larger holding companies) and may be better financed. In addition, the Company competes with: (i) a large number of relatively small enterprises with specific client, channel or geographic coverage; (ii) the internal merchandising and marketing operations of its existing and prospective clients; (iii) independent brokers; and (iv) smaller regional providers. Remaining competitive in the highly competitive merchandising and marketing services industry requires that the Company monitor and respond to trends in all industry sectors. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to anticipate and respond successfully to such trends in a timely manner. If the Company is unable to successfully compete, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its performance or condition (including its affiliates, assets, business, clients, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, performance, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results, risks, trends or condition), whether actual or as planned, intended, anticipated, estimated or otherwise expected.. -13-. If certain competitors were to combine into integrated merchandising and marketing services companies, or additional merchandising and marketing service companies were to enter into this market, or existing participants in this industry were to become more competitive, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its performance or condition (including its affiliates, assets, business, clients, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, performance, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results, risks, trends or condition), whether actual or as planned, intended, anticipated, estimated or otherwise expected.. Risks of Losses and Financial Covenant Violations. In the past, the Company occasionally suffered operating losses.  As a result of those losses and related effects, the Company had repeated technical violations of certain covenants in the Company's prior domestic credit facility, which its lender periodically waived for fees rather than permanently resetting them to realistically achievable levels.  However, the Company changed its domestic lenders in July 2010 and entered into a new credit facility with financial covenants that the Company then believed were more realistic and thus less likely to require waivers.  Since then, however, certain one-time charges and adverse operating results during 2016 have resulted in the Company being in default of its fixed charge coverage ratio during the first and third quarters and for the year ended December 31, 2016.  The Company has successfully sought and received the requisite waivers for these defaults.  The Company was in compliance of all its new domestic lender's bank covenants in 2017.  See Note 5 to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements - Credit Facilities - Sterling Credit Facility, and Item 7 – Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, below. The Company again changed its domestic lenders in January 2018 and entered into a new credit facility with increased availability and improved financial and other covenants.  See Note 16 to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements – Subsequent Events – PNC Credit Facility, below.. There can be no assurances that in the future the Company will be profitable, will not violate covenants of its current or future credit facilities, its lenders will waive any violations of such covenants, the Company will continue to have adequate lines of credit, or will continue to have sufficient availability under its lines of credit. Accordingly, marginal profitability by the Company, as well as any failure to maintain sufficient availability or lines of credit from the Company's lenders, could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its performance or condition (including its affiliates, assets, business, clients, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, performance, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results, risks, trends or condition), whether actual or as planned, intended, anticipated, estimated or otherwise expected.. Variability of Operating Results and Uncertainty in Client Revenue. The Company has experienced and, in the future, may experience fluctuations in quarterly operating results. Factors that may cause the Company's quarterly operating results to vary from time to time and may result in reduced revenue and profits include: (i) the number of active client projects; (ii) seasonality of client products; (iii) client delays, changes and cancellations in projects; (iv) staffing requirements, indemnifications, risk allocations, primary insurance coverages, intellectual property claims, and other contractual provisions and concessions demanded by clients that are unilateral, overreaching and unreasonable and very time consuming to review and attempt to negotiate; (v) the timing requirements of client projects; (vi) the completion of major client projects; (vii) the timing of new engagements; (viii) the timing of personnel cost increases; and (ix) the loss of major clients. In addition, the Company is subject to revenue or profit uncertainties resulting from factors such as unprofitable client work (see below) and the failure of clients to pay. The Company attempts to mitigate these risks by dealing primarily with large credit-worthy clients, by entering into written or oral agreements with its clients and by using project budgeting systems. These revenue fluctuations could materially and adversely affect the Company or its performance or condition (including its affiliates, assets, business, clients, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, performance, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results, risks, trends or condition), whether actual or as planned, intended, anticipated, estimated or otherwise expected.. Risks of Unprofitable Services. The Company has agreed, and in the future may agree, from time to time to perform services for its client that become or turn out to be unprofitable even though the Company expected to make a profit when agreeing to perform them. The Company's services for a particular client or project may be or become unprofitable due to mistakes or changes in circumstance, including (without limitation) any (i) mistake or omission made in investigating, evaluating or understanding any relevant circumstance, requirement or request of the Company's client or any aspect of the prospective services or their inherent problems, (ii) mistake made in pricing, planning or performing the prospective service, (iii) service non-performance, or free re-performance, (iv) change in cost, personnel, regulation or other performance circumstance, or (v) costs of settling or defending overreaching or unreasonable indemnifications, risk allocations, primary insurance coverages, intellectual property claims, or other contractual provisions or concessions. Unprofitable services could reduce the Company's net revenues and, if material in gross amount or degree of unprofitability, could materially and adversely affect the Company or its actual, expected, performance or condition (including its affiliates, assets, business, clients, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, performance, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results, risks, trends or condition), whether actual or as planned, intended, anticipated, estimated or otherwise expected.. -14-. Failure to Develop New Services. A key element of the Company's growth strategy is the development and sale of new services. While several new services are under current development, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully develop and market new services. The Company's inability or failure to devise useful merchandising or marketing services or to complete the development or implementation of a particular service for use on a large scale, or the failure of such services to achieve market acceptance, could adversely affect the Company's ability to achieve a significant part of its growth strategy and the absence of such growth could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its performance or condition (including its affiliates, assets, business, clients, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, performance, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results, risks, trends or condition), whether actual or as planned, intended, anticipated, estimated or otherwise expected and could limit the Company's ability to significantly increase its revenues and profits.. Return Risks on Software Capital Expenditures. The Company has made and will continue to make significant investments in improving its existing Global Technology Systems and developing new software, applications and systems, which is a complex and lengthy process and totaled $1.0 and $1.3 million in 2017 and 2016, respectively, for capitalized software improvement and development. The Company may not be able to charge its clients for improvements or otherwise recover its costs, and new developments may never become marketable, chargeable or profitable. However, a failure to improve its existing Global Technology Systems or develop new software, applications or systems could result in a loss of clients.. The failure by the Company to successfully improve its existing Global Technology Systems or develop new software, applications or systems (including unrecovered development costs or client attrition) could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its performance or condition (including its affiliates, assets, business, clients, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, performance, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results, risks, trends or condition), whether actual or as planned, intended, anticipated, estimated or otherwise expected.. Inability to Identify, Acquire and Successfully Integrate Acquisitions. Another key component of the Company's growth strategy is the acquisition of businesses across the United States and worldwide that offer similar merchandising or marketing services. The successful implementation of this strategy depends upon the Company's ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, acquire such businesses on acceptable terms, finance the acquisition and consolidate and integrate their operations successfully with those of the Company. There can be no assurance that such candidates will be available or, if such candidates are available, that the price will be attractive or that the Company will be able to identify, acquire, finance, consolidate or integrate such businesses successfully. In addition, in pursuing such acquisition opportunities, the Company may compete with other entities with similar growth strategies; these competitors may be larger and have greater financial and other resources than the Company. Competition for these acquisition targets could also result in increased prices of acquisition targets and/or a diminished pool of companies available for acquisition.. The successful integration of these acquisitions also may involve a number of additional risks, including: (i) the inability to retain the clients of the acquired business; (ii) the lingering effects of poor client relations or service performance by the acquired business, which also may taint the Company's existing business; (iii) the inability to retain over the long term the desirable management, key personnel and other employees of the acquired business; (iv) the inability to fully realize the desired efficiencies and economies of scale; (v) the inability to establish, implement or police the Company's existing standards, controls, procedures and policies on the acquired business; (vi) diversion of management attention; and (vii) exposure to client, employee and other legal claims for activities of the acquired business prior to acquisition. In addition, any acquired business could perform significantly worse than expected.. The inability to identify, acquire, finance and successfully integrate such merchandising or marketing services business could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its performance or condition (including its affiliates, assets, business, clients, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, performance, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results, risks, trends or condition), whether actual or as planned, intended, anticipated, estimated or otherwise expected.. -15-. Uncertainty of Financing for, and Dilution Resulting from, Future Acquisitions and Settlements. The timing, size and success of acquisition and litigation settlement efforts and any associated capital commitments cannot be readily predicted. Future acquisitions and litigation settlement may be financed by issuing shares of the SGRP Common Stock, cash, or a combination of SGRP Common Stock and cash. If the SGRP Common Stock does not maintain a sufficient market value, or if potential acquisition candidates or litigants are otherwise unwilling to accept the SGRP Common Stock as part of the consideration for the sale of their businesses or settlement of their litigation, the Company may be required to obtain additional capital through debt or equity financings. To the extent the SGRP Common Stock is used for all or a portion of the consideration to be paid for future acquisitions, dilution may be experienced by existing stockholders. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain the additional financing it may need for its acquisitions or litigation settlements on terms that the Company deems acceptable. Failure to obtain such capital would materially and adversely affect the Company or its performance or condition (including its affiliates, assets, business, clients, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, performance, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results, risks, trends or condition), whether actual or as planned, intended, anticipated, estimated or otherwise expected.. Reliance on the Internet and Third Party Vendors. The Company relies on its Global Technology Systems for (among other things) the scheduling, tracking, coordination and reporting of its merchandising and marketing services. In addition to proprietary software and applications of the Company, the Global Technology System uses and relies upon software (including operating system, office, exchange, data base and server programs) licensed and hardware purchased or leased from third parties and internet and telecommunication services provided by third parties, which third party software, hardware and internet and telecommunication services may not continue to be available at all or (if available) at reasonable prices or on commercially reasonable terms. Any defect, error or other performance failure in such third-party software, hardware or service also could result in a defect, error or performance failure in our client services. Systems can experience excess traffic and related inefficiencies, from increased demand or otherwise, as well as increased attacks by hackers and other saboteurs. To the extent that systems experience increased demands on current capacity and for additional capacity from (among other things) an increase in the numbers of users, frequency or duration of use, bandwidth requirements of software, applications and users (including the increasing demand from the Company's clients for data-intensive as-serviced pictures from the Field Specialists), or internet attacks, there can be no assurance that the Company's technological systems and third party software, hardware and internet and telecommunication providers will continue to be able to support the demands placed on them by such increase demand or negative events.. The Company relies on third-party vendors to provide its internet and telecommunication network access and other services used in its business, and the Company has no control over such third-party providers. Additionally, a cybersecurity breach that results in unauthorized access to sensitive consumer or corporate information contained in these systems may adversely affect the Company's reputation and lead to claims against it. Such claims could include identity theft or other similar fraud-related claims. Any system failure, accident or security breach could result in disruptions to the Company's operations. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to the Company's data, or results in inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, it could cause significant damage to its reputation, affect its relationships with its customers, lead to claims against it and ultimately harm its business. In addition, the Company may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future.. Any such software, hardware or service unavailability or unreasonable pricing or terms, defect, error or other performance failure in such third-party software, hardware or service, increased capacity demands, disruption in services, security breach or protective measures could increase the Company's costs of operation and reduce its efficiency and performance, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its performance or condition (including its affiliates, assets, business, clients, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, performance, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results, risks, trends or condition), whether actual or as planned, intended, anticipated, estimated or otherwise expected.. Economic and Retail Uncertainty. The markets in which the Company operates are cyclical and subject to the effects of economic downturns. The current political, social and economic conditions, including the impact of terrorism on consumer and business behavior, make it difficult for the Company, its vendors and its clients to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. Substantially all of the Company's key clients are either retailers or those seeking to do product merchandising at retailers. Should the retail industry experience a significant economic downturn, the resultant reduction in product sales could significantly decrease the Company's revenues. The Company also has risks associated with its clients changing their business plans and/or reducing their marketing budgets in response to economic conditions, which could also significantly decrease the Company's revenues. Such revenue decreases could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its performance or condition (including its affiliates, assets, business, clients, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, performance, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results, risks, trends or condition), whether actual or as planned, intended, anticipated, estimated or otherwise expected.. -16-. Risks Associated with Furniture and Other Related Assembly Services. The Company's technicians assemble furniture and other products in the homes and offices of customers.  Working at a customer's home or office could give rise to claims against the Company for errors, omissions or misconduct by those technicians, including (without limitation) harassment, personal injury, death, damage to or theft of customer property, or other civil or criminal misconduct by such technicians.  Claims also could be made against the Company as a result of its involvement in such assembly services due to (among other things) product assembly errors and omissions, product defects, deficiencies, breakdowns or collapse, products that are not merchantable or fit for their particular purpose, products that do not conform to published specifications or satisfy customer expectations, or products that cause personal injury, death or property damage, in each case whether actual, alleged or perceived by customers, and irrespective of how much time may have passed since such assembly.  If such claims are asserted and adversely determined against the Company, then to the extent such claims are not covered by indemnification from the product's seller or manufacturer or by insurance, they could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its performance or condition (including its affiliates, assets, business, clients, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, performance, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results, risks, trends or condition), whether actual or as planned, intended, anticipated, estimated or otherwise expected.. Risks Associated with Audit Services. The auditing services industry is highly competitive and the Company has competitors that are larger (or part of larger holding companies) and may be better financed. In addition, the Company competes with: (i) a large number of relatively small enterprises with specific client, channel or geographic coverage; (ii) the internal auditing operations of its existing and prospective clients; and (iii) smaller regional providers. Remaining competitive in the highly competitive auditing services industry requires that the Company monitor and respond to trends in all industry sectors. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to anticipate and respond successfully to such trends in a timely manner. If the Company is unable to successfully compete, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its performance or condition (including its affiliates, assets, business, clients, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, performance, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results, risks, trends or condition), whether actual or as planned, intended, anticipated, estimated or otherwise expected.. Dependence Upon and Cost of Services Provided by Affiliates and Use of Independent Contractors. The success of the Company's domestic business is dependent upon the successful execution and administration of its domestic field services by field merchandising, auditing, assembly and other field personnel (each a \"Field Specialist\") who are located, scheduled, deployed and administered domestically by local, regional, district and other personnel (each a \"Field Administrator\"). The Company's affiliate, SPAR Business Services, Inc. (\"SBS\"), during 2017 provided approximately 10,700 Field Specialists (all of whom were engaged as independent contractors by SBS), representing 77% (or $25.9 million) of the total cost the Field Specialists utilized by the Company domestically.  The Company's affiliate, SPAR Administrative Services, Inc. (\"SAS\") during 2017 provided approximately 57 Field Administrators (all of whom were employed by SAS) representing 91% (or $4.2 million) of the total cost of the Field Administrators utilized by the Company domestically. See Item 1 - Business - The Company's Labor Force, above.. To the extent the Company continues to use the services provided by SAS and SBS, the success of the Company's domestic business is dependent (at least in part) upon the financial and operational viability of SAS and SBS.  In order to ensure business continuity and the best and most reliable execution of the Company's services to its clients, the Company is also evaluating utilizing Field Specialists and Field Administrators provided by Company subsidiaries (in the case of employees) and provided by non-affiliated vendors, and whether and to what extent the Company should continue to use Field Specialists and Field Administrators provided by SBS and SAS.. SBS, SAS and certain service providers to the Company's foreign joint venture subsidiaries are affiliates of the Company and engaged in related party transactions with the Company, but none of those service providers is a subsidiary of or controlled by the Company and none of them are included in the Company's consolidated financial statements.  For contractual details and payment amounts, see Item 13 – Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence – Domestic Related Party Services, and Note 11 to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements – Related Party Transactions, below.. The Company believes that its business model of executing its services through independent contractors provided by others is inherently less costly than doing so with employees, both under applicable tax and employment laws and otherwise.. -17-. The Company has determined that the rates charged by SBS and SAS for their services are slightly favorable to the Company when compared to other possible non-affiliated providers. SBS has independently advised the Company that those favorable rates are dependent (at least in part) on its ability to continue to use independent contractors as their Field Specialists, that those independent Field Specialists generally provide greater flexibility and performance quality at lower total costs as a result of their business independence and initiative, that it has an agreement with each Field Specialist clearly confirming his, her or its status as an independent contractor, and that SBS believes that it complies with applicable independent contractor requirements for the individuals and companies it retains as Field Specialists.. Substantially all of the Company's Field Specialists are engaged and provided as independent contractors by SBS (see above).  The appropriateness of SBS's treatment of its Field Specialists as independent contractors has been periodically subject to legal challenge (both currently and historically) by various states and others.  SBS's expenses of defending those challenges and other proceedings have historically been reimbursed by the Company under SBS's Prior Agreement, and SBS's expenses of defending those challenges and other proceedings were reimbursed by the Company in 2017 and 2016 (in the amounts of $193,000 and $736,000, respectively), after determination (on a case by case basis) that those defense expenses were costs of providing services to the Company.  The Company has advised SBS that, since there is no currently effective comprehensive written services agreement with SBS, the Company will continue to review and decide each request by SBS for reimbursement of its legal defense expenses (including appeals) on a case-by-case basis, including the relative costs and benefits to the Company.  The Company has not agreed, and does not currently intend, to reimburse SBS for any judgment, settlement, or related tax, penalty, or interest in any legal challenge or other proceeding, and the Company does not believe it has ever done so (other than in insignificant nuisance amounts).  However, there are no assurances that SBS or someone else will not claim, or that SBS will be able to successfully defend any claim, that the Company is liable (through reimbursement, indemnification or otherwise) for any judgment against SBS.  Furthermore, there can be no assurance that SBS will succeed in defending any such legal challenge, the legal expenses of prolonged litigation and appeals could continue to be (and have from time to time been) significant, and any adverse determination in any such challenge could have a material adverse effect on SBS's ability to provide services needed by the Company and the Company's costs of doing business.  As noted above, the Company is also evaluating utilizing Field Specialists and Field Administrators provided by Company subsidiaries (in the case of employees) and provided by non-affiliated vendors, and whether and to what extent the Company should continue to use Field Specialists and Field Administrators provided by SBS and SAS.  Current material proceedings against SBS are described in Item 3 - Legal Proceedings, Item 13 – Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence – Domestic Related Party Services, Note 7 to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements - Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Matters, and Note 11 to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements – Related Party Transactions – Domestic Related Party Services, below.  See also Potential Conflicts in Services Provided by Affiliates and Risks Related to the Company's Significant Stockholders: Potential Voting Control and Conflicts, in these Risk Factors, below.. However, the Company has been reevaluating its business model of using independent contractor's as Field Specialists (whether or not provided by others) in light of changing client requirements and legal and regulatory environments.  The Company has determined that it will be shifting to an all employee model for its Field Specialists in May of 2018 to support the performance of its services in California for its clients in this critical market.  The Company is also evaluating whether this all employee model for its Field Specialists should be used in other states, and intends to begin testing an employee based model nationally for certain domestic clients that are requiring the Company to use employees as its Field Specialists.  The Company expects that using employees as its Field Specialists in additional states will cost substantially more than using independent contractors for the same services.. Any prolonged continuation of or material increase in the legal defense costs of SBS (and thus the reimbursable expenses SBS may charge to and that may be paid by the Company), any claim by SBS, SAS, any related party or any third party that the Company is somehow liable for any judgment against SBS or SAS, any judicial determination that the Company is somehow liable for any judgment against SBS or SAS (in whole or in part), any decrease in SBS's or SAS’s performance (quality or otherwise), any inability by SBS or SAS to execute the services for the Company or to continue with their respective present business models, or any increase in the Company's use of employees (rather than independent contractors) as its domestic Field Specialists, in each case in whole or in part, could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its performance or condition (including its affiliates, assets, business, clients, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results or condition), whether actual or as planned, intended, anticipated, estimated or otherwise expected.. -18-. Potential Conflicts in Services Provided by Affiliates. The Company's affiliate, SPAR Business Services, Inc. (\"SBS\"), during 2017 provided approximately 10,700 Field Specialists (all of whom were engaged as independent contractors by SBS), representing 77% (or $25.9 million) of the total cost the Field Specialists utilized by the Company domestically.  The Company's affiliate, SPAR Administrative Services, Inc. (\"SAS\") during 2017 provided approximately 57 Field Administrators (all of whom were employed by SAS) representing 91% (or $4.2 million) of the total cost of the Field Administrators utilized by the Company domestically.  See Item 1 - Business - The Company's Labor Force, above, and Dependence Upon and Cost of Services Provided by Affiliates and Use of Independent Contractors in this Part IA - Risk Factors, above.  SBS and SAS are affiliates of the Company but neither of them is a subsidiary of or controlled by the Company and neither of them are included in the Company's consolidated financial statements.  SBS is owned by Mr. Robert G. Brown, founder, director, Chairman and a significant stockholder of the Company, and Mr. William H. Bartels, founder, director, Vice Chairman and a significant stockholder of the Company.  SAS is owned by Mr. Bartels and certain relatives of Mr. Brown or entities controlled by them (each of whom are considered affiliates of the Company for related party purposes).  Mr. Brown and Mr. Bartels are also stockholders, directors and executive officers of various other affiliates of SGRP.. Disputes in the business relationships between the Company and either or both of SBS or SAS (which have occurred and my occur again), it is possible that Messrs. Brown or Bartels may have one or more conflicts of interest with respect to those relationships and could cause SBS and/or SAS to cease or reduce work for the Company, to renegotiate or cancel their arrangement with the Company or otherwise act in a way that is not in the Company's best interests.  To a lesser extent, similar conflicts and events could arise with respect to the Company's contracts with affiliates in South Africa, Mexico, Brazil and Turkey.  See Item 1 – Business - The Company's Labor Force, above, and Item 1A - Risk Factors -Dependence Upon and Cost of Services Provided by Affiliates and Use of Independent Contractors, above, and Item 1A - Risk Factors - Risks Related to the Company's Significant Stockholders: Potential Voting Control and Conflicts, and Risks of Having Material Local Investors in International and Domestic Subsidiaries, Item 13 – Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence, below, and Note 7 to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements –  Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Matters, and Note 11 to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements – Related Party Transactions- Domestic Related Party Services, below.  The Company is evaluating whether and the extent (if any) to which continue with them.  The services provided by SBS and SAS to the Company in the United States are material and there are no assurances that the Company could (if necessary under the circumstances) replace the field merchandising specialists and management currently provided by SBS and SAS, respectively, in sufficient time to perform its client obligations or at such favorable rates in the event either or both of SBS or SAS no longer performed those services. See Note 7 to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements – Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Matters, and Note 11 to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements – Related Party Transactions - Domestic Related Party Services, below. Any cancellation, other nonperformance or material pricing increase under the Company's arrangements with SAS or SBS could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its performance or condition (including its affiliates, assets, business, clients, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, performance, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results, risks, trends or condition), whether actual or as planned, intended, anticipated, estimated or otherwise expected.  However, the Company is evaluating potential alternative suppliers of Field Specialists and Field Administrators.. Risks of Common Stock Ownership. Dividends on SGRP Common Stock are discretionary, have never been paid, are subject to restrictions in the Company's credit facilities and applicable law and can only be paid to the holders of SGRP Common Stock if the accrued and unpaid dividends and potential dividends are first paid to the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock. In the event of the Company's liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up, the holders of Common Stock are only entitled to share in the Company's assets, if any, that remain after the Company makes payment of and provision for all of the Company's debts and liabilities and the liquidation preferences of all of the Company's outstanding Preferred Stock. There can be no assurance that sufficient funds will remain in any such case for dividends or distributions to the holders of SGRP Common Stock.. -19-. Risks related to the Company's Preferred Stock. The Company's ability to issue or redeem Preferred Stock, or any rights to purchase such shares, could discourage an unsolicited acquisition proposal. For example, the Company could impede a business combination by issuing a series of preferred stock containing class voting rights that would enable the holders of such preferred stock to block a business combination transaction. Alternatively, the Company could facilitate a business combination transaction by issuing a series of preferred stock having sufficient voting rights to provide a required percentage vote of the stockholders. Additionally, under certain circumstances, the Company's issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of the Company's common stock. Although the Company's board of directors is required to make any determination to issue any preferred stock based on its judgment as to the best interests of the Company's stockholders, the Company's board of directors could act in a manner that would discourage an acquisition attempt or other transaction that some, or a majority, of the Company's stockholders may believe to be in their best interests or in which stockholders may receive a premium for their stock over prevailing market prices of such stock. The Company's board of directors does not at present intend to seek stockholder approval prior to any issuance of currently authorized stock, unless otherwise required by law or applicable stock exchange requirements.. Risks of Illiquidity in SGRP Common Stock. The market price of SGRP Common Stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility. During the year ended December 31, 2017, the sale price of SGRP Common Stock fluctuated from $0.87 to $1.66 per share. The Company believes that its Common Stock is subject to wide price fluctuations due to (among other things) the following:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe relatively small public float and corresponding thin trading market for SGRP Common Stock, attributable to (among other things) the large block of voting shares beneficially owned by the Company's co-founders (as noted below) and generally low trading volumes, and that thin trading market may cause small trades to have significant impacts on SGRP Common Stock price;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe substantial beneficial ownership of the Company's voting stock and potential control by Mr. Robert G. Brown and Mr. William H. Bartels, who are the Company's co-founders and directors and Officers of the Company; Mr. Brown beneficially owns approximately 33.6% (or 6.9 million shares) of the SGRP Common Stock, and Mr. Bartels beneficially owns approximately 25.6% (or 5.3 million shares) of the SGRP Common Stock, which amounts were calculated using their individual beneficial ownerships and the total outstanding ownership (20.6 million shares) of the SGRP Common Stock on a non-diluted basis at December 31, 2017. This means that together they beneficially own a total of approximately 59.2% (or 12.2 million shares) of the SGRP Common Stock (see Risks Related to the Company's Significant Stockholders: Potential Voting Control and Conflicts, below);. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe periodic potential risk of the delisting of SGRP Common Stock from trading on Nasdaq (as described below);. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tany announcement, estimate or disclosure by the Company, or any projection or other claim or pronouncement by any of the Company's competitors or any financial analyst, commentator, blogger or other person, respecting (i) any new service created or improved, significant contract, business acquisition or relationship, or other publicized development by the Company or any of its competitors, or (ii) any change, fluctuation or other development in the Company's actual, estimated or desired affiliates, assets, business, clients, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results or condition or in those of any of the Company's competitors, in each case irrespective of accuracy or validity and whether or not adverse or material; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe general volatility of stock markets, consumer and investor confidence, and the general state of the economy (which often affect the prices of stock issued by the Company and many others without regard to financial results or condition).. If the Company issues (other than at fair market value for cash) or the Company's co-founders sell a large number of shares of SGRP Common Stock, or if the market perceives such an issuance or sale is likely or imminent, the market price of SGRP Common Stock could decline and that decline could be significant.. The Company also has repurchased SGRP Common Stock from time to time, and currently has in place a Repurchase Program (as defined and described in Item 5 - Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities, below). Those repurchases could adversely affect the market liquidity of the SGRP Common Stock.. -20-. In addition, the volatility in the market price of SGRP Common Stock could lead to class action securities litigation that (however unjustified) could in turn impose substantial costs on the Company, divert management's attention and resources and harm the Company's stock price, the Company or its performance or condition (including its affiliates, assets, business, clients, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, performance, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results, risks, trends or condition), whether actual or as planned, intended, anticipated, estimated or otherwise expected.. Risks Related to the Company's Significant Stockholders: Potential Voting Control and Conflicts. The Company's co-founders, Mr. Robert G. Brown and Mr. William H. Bartels are directors, officers (Chairman and Vice-Chairman, respectively) and significant stockholders of the Company. Mr. Brown beneficially owns approximately 33.6% (or 6.9 million shares of the SGRP Common Stock); and Mr. Bartels beneficially owns approximately 25.6% (or 5.3 million shares) of the SGRP Common Stock; which amounts were calculated using their individual beneficial ownerships and the total outstanding ownership (20.6 million shares) of the SGRP Common Stock on a non-diluted basis at December 31, 2017. This means that together Mr. Brown and Mr. Bartels beneficially own a total of approximately 59.2% (or 12.2 million shares) of the SGRP Common Stock and have, should they choose to act together, and under certain circumstances Mr. Brown acting alone may have, the ability to control the election or removal of directors, the approval or disapproval of acquisitions, mergers, conflicts of interest and all other matters that must be approved by the Company's stockholders. In any event, Mr. Brown and Mr. Bartels continue to have significant influence over the Company's business and operations and the outcome of the Company's corporate operations, acquisitions and other actions, including those involving stockholder approvals. The interests of any significant stockholder may be different from time to time from, and potentially in conflict with, the interests of other stockholders, and ownership concentration could cause, delay or prevent a change in the Company's control or otherwise discourage the Company's potential acquisition by another person, any of which could cause the market price of the SGRP Common Stock to decline and that decline could be significant.. Risks of Dilution. The Company may issue stock options and award restricted stock to directors, officers, employees and consultants in the future at Common Stock per-share exercise prices below the market price(s). In addition, the Company may issue shares of SGRP Common Stock in the future in furtherance of the Company's acquisitions or development of businesses or assets or litigation settlements. Each of those and other issuances of SGRP Common Stock could have a dilutive effect on the value of currently held shares, depending on the price the Company is paid (or the value of the assets or business acquired) for such shares, market conditions at the time and other factors.. Risks of a Nasdaq Delisting and Penny Stock Trading. Mr. Lorrence T. Kellar has announced his intent to retire as an independent director from SGRP's Board of Directors (the \"Board\") and its Audit, Compensation, Governance and Special Committees at the end of the May Board and Committee meetings (currently scheduled to end on May 3, 2018), and will not stand for relection at the annual meeting of SGRP's stockholders on May 2, 2018 (the \"2018 Annual Meeting\"), but Mr. Kellar has not officially retired to date. The size of the Board and its Audit, Compensation, Governance and Special Committees have been reduced to six and three, respectively, effective upon his actual retirement. The Board and its Governance Committee have been seeking a replacement independent director, have located potential candidates, and have begun diligence respecting and discussions with them. However, they may not find an acceptable candidate who is willing to serve as an independent director on the Board and its Committees by the time of Mr. Kellar's retirement, and if that occurs, SGRP's Board will no longer comply with the majority independent director requirement for continued listing set forth in Rule 5605(b)(1) of the Nasdaq Listing Rules, which requires that independent directors be a majority of the SGRP Board of Directors and the only members of its Audit, Compensation, Governance and Special Committees (known as the \"Independent Majority Rule\") and will likely receive a Deficiency Letter from Nasdaq indicating that failure. Although independent directors will not be a majority of the SGRP Board under those circumstances, the only members of SGRP's Audit, Compensation, Governance and Special Committees will continue to be independent directors. Upon receipt of that Deficiency Letter, SGRP will have a six month grace period to regain compliance with the Independent Majority Rule (which SGRP may do by adding an independent director to or removing a non-independent director from SGRP's Board), and if SGRP does not regain compliance with the Independent Majority Rule Rule prior to the expiration of that grace period, SGRP's securities are subject to delisting from Nasdaq (which may be appealed).. SGRP Common Stock has recently traded and could in the future again trade for less than $1.00 per share, which is below Nasdaq's minimum trading price for continued listing on the Nasdaq stock market.  The Company received a notice from Nasdaq on May 25, 2017, advising the Company that it failed to maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share for its shares of Common Stock for the prior 30 consecutive business days as required by Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) (known as the \"Bid Price Rule\"), and that it had a 180 day grace period in which to regain compliance with the Bid Price Rule by maintaining a closing bid price of $1.00 per share for SGRP Common Stock for a minimum of ten consecutive business days.  On July 13, 2017, the Company received notice from Nasdaq that it had regained compliance with the Bid Price Rule and the matter was closed.. -21-. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to comply in the future with Nasdaq's Independent Majority Rule (requiring that independent directors be a majority of the SGRP Board of Directors and the only members of its Audit, Compensation and Governance Committees), Nasdaq's Bid Price Rule (requiring a minimum bid price of $1.00/share), independent director rules or other Nasdaq continued listing requirements. If the Company fails to satisfy the applicable continued listing requirement and continues to be in non-compliance after notice and the applicable grace period ends (which is six months in the case of the Bid Price Rule or Independent Majority Rule), Nasdaq may commence delisting procedures against the Company (during which the Company will have additional time of up to six months to appeal and correct its non-compliance). If the SGRP Common Stock shares were ultimately delisted by Nasdaq, the market liquidity of the SGRP Common Stock could be adversely affected and its market price could decrease, even though such shares may continue to be traded \"over the counter\", due to (among other things) the potential for increased spreads between bids and asks, lower trading volumes and reporting delays in over-the-counter trades and the negative implications and perceptions that could arise from such a delisting.. In addition to the foregoing, if the SGRP Common Stock is delisted from Nasdaq and is traded on the over-the-counter market, the application of the \"penny stock\" rules could adversely affect the market price of the SGRP Common Stock and increase the transaction costs to sell those shares. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define a \"penny stock\" as any equity security not listed on a national securities exchange or quoted on Nasdaq that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. If the SGRP Common Stock is delisted from Nasdaq and is traded on the over-the-counter market at a price of less than $5.00 per share, the SGRP Common Stock would be considered a penny stock. Unless otherwise exempted, the SEC's penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, before a transaction in a penny stock, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stock and the risks in the penny stock market, the current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and the salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. Further, prior to a transaction in a penny stock occurs, the penny stock rules require the broker-dealer to provide a written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's agreement to the transaction. If applicable in the future, the penny stock rules may restrict the ability of brokers-dealers to sell the SGRP Common Stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell their shares, until the SGRP Common Stock is no longer a penny stock.. Risk of Failure to Maintain Effective Internal Controls. Establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosures are necessary for the Company to provide reliable financial and other reporting in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted and applicable securities and other law in the United States. Because of its inherent limitations, internal controls over financial and other reporting are not intended to provide absolute assurance that the Company could prevent or detect a misstatement of its financial statements or other reports or fraud. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial and disclosure reporting could limit the Company's ability to report its financial results and file its other reports accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. A significant financial or disclosure reporting failure or material weakness in internal control over financial or other reporting could cause a loss of investor confidence and decline in the market price of the SGRP Common Stock.. Risks of Having Material Local Investors in International and Domestic Subsidiaries. The Company's international model is to join forces with Local Investors (as defined below) having merchandising service expertise and combine their knowledge of the local market with the Company's proprietary software and expertise in the merchandising business. The Company also has begun to use this model in the United States (see Item 1 – Business - The Company's Domestic and International Segments, above). As a result, each of the Company's international subsidiaries (other than Canada and Japan) and NMS domestically is owned in material part by an entity in the local country where the international or domestic subsidiary resides and that entity is not otherwise affiliated with the Company (e.g., the \"Local Investor\"). The agreements between the Company and the Local Investor in the respective international or domestic subsidiaries specify, among other things, the equity, programming and support services the Company is required to provide and the equity, credit support, certain services and management support that the Local Investor is required to provide to the international or domestic subsidiary. Certain of those subsidiaries also may be procuring field merchandising execution through affiliates of the applicable Local Investors. The Local Investors also may wish to conduct the subsidiary's business differently than desired by the Company. In the event of any disagreement or other dispute in the business relationships between the Company and Local Investor, it is possible that the Local Investor may have one or more conflicts of interest with respect to the relationship and could cause the applicable international or domestic subsidiary to operate or otherwise act in a way that is not in the Company's instructions or best interests.. -22-. The agreements generally have unlimited contract terms and parties generally do not have the right to unilaterally withdraw. However, a non-defaulting party has the right to terminate such agreement upon the other party's default, receipt of notice and failure to cure within a specified period (generally 60 days internationally or 30 days domestically). In addition, either party, at any time after the end of a specified period (usually between three and five years), may: (1) sell all or part of its equity interest in the international subsidiary to a third party by providing a written notice to the other party of such intentions (in which case the other party has the right of first refusal and may purchase the equity of the offering party under the same terms and conditions) (a \"Right of First Refusal\"); or (2) offer to purchase the equity of the other party (in which case the other party generally has 120 days to either accept or reject the offer or to reverse the transaction and actually purchase the offering party's equity under the same terms and conditions) (a \"Buy/Sell Right\").. The Company believes its relationships with the Local Investors in its international subsidiaries remain good. Most of the Company's respective international subsidiary contracts are either at or near the end of the applicable periods during which either of the parties may trigger the Right of First Refusal and Buy/Sell provisions described above. Both the Company and such Local Investors, as part of their ongoing relationship, are or will be assessing appropriate action as described above.. There can be no assurance that the Company could (if necessary under the circumstances) successfully enforce its legal remedies and stop a Local Investor's principals from leaving the local subsidiary and establishing a competing business, replace equity, credit support, management, field merchandiser and other services currently provided by any Local Investor in sufficient time to perform its client obligations or that the Company could provide these services and or equity in the event the Local Stockholder was to sell its stock or reduce any support to the Company's subsidiary in the applicable country. Any cancellation, other nonperformance or material change under the subsidiary agreements with Local Investors could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its performance or condition (including its affiliates, assets, business, clients, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, performance, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results, risks, trends or condition), whether actual or as planned, intended, anticipated, estimated or otherwise expected.. Risks Associated with International and Domestic Subsidiaries. While the Company endeavors to limit its exposure for claims and losses in any international or domestic consolidated subsidiary through contractual provisions, insurance and use of single purpose entities for such ventures, there can be no assurance that the Company will not be held liable for the claims against and losses of a particular international or domestic consolidated subsidiary under applicable local law or local interpretation of any subsidiary agreements or insurance provisions. If any such claims and losses should occur, be material in amount and be successfully asserted against the Company, such claims and losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its performance or condition (including its affiliates, assets, business, clients, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, performance, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results, risks, trends or condition), whether actual or as planned, intended, anticipated, estimated or otherwise expected.. Risks Associated with Foreign Currency. The Company also has foreign currency exposure associated with its international subsidiaries. In 2017, these foreign currency exposures were primarily concentrated in the Mexican Peso, South African Rand, Chinese Yuan, Japanese Yen, Indian Rupee, Canadian Dollar, and Brazilian Real.. Risks Associated with International Business. The Company's expansion strategy includes expansion into various countries around the world. While the Company endeavors to limit its exposure by entering only countries where the political, social and economic environments are conducive to doing business, there can be no assurances that the respective business environments will remain favorable. In the future, the Company's international operations and sales may be affected by the following risks, which may adversely affect United States companies doing business in foreign countries:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tPolitical and economic risks, including terrorist attacks and political instability;  \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t•  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tVarious forms of protectionist trade legislation that currently exist or have been proposed; \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t•  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tExpenses associated with customizing services and technology;. -23-. •  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLocal laws and business practices that favor local competition; \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t•  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tDependence on local vendors and potential for undisclosed related party transactions;  \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t•  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tMultiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws, regulations and enforcement;  \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t•  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tPotentially adverse tax and employment law consequences;  \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t•  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLocal accounting principles, practices and procedures;  \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t•  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLocal legal principles, practices and procedures, local contract review and negotiation, and limited familiarity with contract issues (excessive warranties, extra-territoriality, sweeping intellectual property claims and the like);  \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLimited familiarity or an unwillingness to comply with, or wrongly believing the inapplicability of, generally accepted accounting principles in the USA (\"GAAP\"), applicable corporate controls and policies of the Company (including its Ethics Code), or applicable law in the USA (including Nasdaq rules, securities laws, anti-terrorism law, Sarbanes Oxley and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act); \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t•  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tForeign currency exchange rate fluctuations and limits on the export of funds;  \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t•  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tSubstantial communication barriers, including those arising from language, culture, custom and time zones; and  \t\t\t \t\t  \t\t\t \t\t\t•  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tSupervisory challenges arising from agreements, distance, physical absences and such communication barriers.. If any developments should occur with respect to any of those international risks and materially and adversely affect the Company's applicable international subsidiary, such developments could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its performance or condition (including its affiliates, assets, business, clients, capital, cash flow, credit, expenses, financial condition, income, liabilities, liquidity, locations, marketing, operations, performance, prospects, sales, strategies, taxation or other achievement, results, risks, trends or condition), whether actual or as planned, intended, anticipated, estimated or otherwise expected."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
