[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Before deciding to invest in our company, or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports we have filed with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also affect our business operations. If any of these risks are realized, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be seriously harmed and in that event, the market price for our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These factors could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers and a reduction in the coverage and/or reimbursement for our products could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations.. Sales of our products are dependent on the availability and extent of coverage and reimbursement, or level of reimbursement, from third-party payers, including government programs and private insurance plans. Governments and private payers may regulate prices, reimbursement levels and/or access to our products to contain costs or to affect levels of use. We rely in large part on the reimbursement of our products through government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid in the U.S., and a reduction in the coverage and/or reimbursement for our products could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations.. A substantial portion of our U.S. business relies on reimbursement from the U.S. federal government under Medicare Part B coverage. Most of our products furnished to Medicare beneficiaries in both a physician office setting and hospital outpatient setting are reimbursed under the Medicare Part B Average Sales Price, or ASP, payment methodology. ASP-based reimbursement of our products under Medicare may be below or could fall below the cost that some medical providers pay for such products, which could materially and adversely affect sales of our products. We also face risks relating to the reporting of pricing data that affect the U.S. reimbursement of and discounts for our products. ASP data are calculated by the manufacturer based on a formula defined by statute and regulation and are then submitted to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, the agency responsible for administering the Medicare program, on a quarterly basis.. CMS uses those ASP data to determine the applicable reimbursement rates for our products under Medicare Part B. However, the statute, regulations and CMS guidance do not define specific methodologies for all aspects of the reporting of ASP data. For example, CMS has not provided specific guidance regarding administrative fees paid to GPOs in the ASP calculation. CMS directs that manufacturers make \"reasonable assumptions\" in their calculation of ASP data in the absence of. 20. Table of Contents. specific CMS guidance on a topic. As a result, we are required to apply our reasonable judgment to certain aspects of calculating ASP data. If our submitted ASP data are incorrect, we may become subject to substantial fines and penalties or other government enforcement actions, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. Clinical trials may fail to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our drug products, which could prevent or significantly delay obtaining regulatory approval.. Prior to receiving approval to commercialize any of our drug products, we must demonstrate with substantial evidence from well-controlled clinical trials, and to the satisfaction of the FDA, and other regulatory authorities in the U.S. and other countries, that each of the products is both safe and effective. For each drug product, we will need to demonstrate its efficacy and monitor its safety throughout the process. If such development is unsuccessful, our business and reputation would be harmed and our stock price would be adversely affected.. We are currently conducting multiple clinical trials for our products. Specifically, we are currently in a Phase 2 breast cancer trial for POZIOTINIB, a pivotal Phase 3 study (ADVANCE Study, or SPI-GCF-301) with respect to ROLONTIS and a Phase 3 study involving QAPZOLA. We are also conducting various clinical trials and studies involving FOLOTYN, BELEODAQ and MARQIBO. Each of our clinical trials requires investment of substantial financial resources and time and the commencement and completion of these clinical trials may be delayed by various factors, including scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions, difficulties in identifying and enrolling patients who meet trial eligibility criteria, failure of patients to complete the clinical trial, delays in accumulating the required number of clinical events for data analyses, delay or failure to obtain the required approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site, and shortages of available drug supply.. All of our drug products are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. Clinical trials of new drug products sufficient to obtain regulatory marketing approval are expensive, uncertain, and take years to complete. We may not be able to successfully complete clinical testing within the time frame we have planned, or at all. Moreover, the outcome of a clinical trial is often uncertain. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent us from receiving regulatory approval or commercializing our drug products. In this regard, reports of adverse events or concerns involving any of our products could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of such products or could result in our inability to obtain regulatory approvals for such products. In addition, the results of pre-clinical studies and early-stage clinical trials of our drug products do not necessarily predict the results of later-stage clinical trials. Later-stage clinical trials may fail to demonstrate that a drug product is safe and effective despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. Even if we believe the data collected from clinical trials of our drug products is promising, data are susceptible to varying interpretations, and such data may not be sufficient to support approval by the FDA or any other U.S. or foreign regulatory approval. Pre-clinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways.. Accordingly, FDA officials could interpret such data in different ways than we or our partners do which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The FDA, other regulatory authorities, our institutional review boards, our contract research organizations, or we may suspend or terminate our clinical trials for our drug products. Any failure or significant delay in completing clinical trials for our drug products, or in receiving regulatory approval for the sale of any drugs resulting from our drug products, may severely harm our business and reputation. Even if we receive FDA and other regulatory approvals, our drug products may later exhibit adverse effects that may limit or prevent their widespread use, may cause the FDA to revoke, suspend or limit their approval, or may force us to withdraw products derived from those drug products from the market. Furthermore, there is the risk that additional post-marketing requirements may be imposed by the FDA in the future on our. products.. Moreover, the commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors that are beyond our control, including:. • delays obtaining regulatory approval to commence a trial;. • delays in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with contract research organizations, or CROs, and clinical trial sites;. • delays in obtaining institutional review board, or IRB, approval at each site;. • slower than anticipated patient enrollment or our inability to recruit and enroll patients to participate in clinical trials for various reasons;. • our inability to retain patients who have initiated a clinical trial;. 21. Table of Contents. • scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions;. • lack of funding to start or continue the clinical trial, including as a result of unforeseen costs due to enrollment delays, requirements to conduct additional trials and studies and increased expenses associated with our CROs and other third parties;. • negative or inconclusive results;. • deficiencies in the conduct of the clinical trial, including failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements, GCP or clinical protocols;. • deficiencies in the clinical trial operations or trial sites resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold;. • patient noncompliance with the protocol;. • adverse medical events or side effects experienced by patients during the clinical trials as a result of or resulting from the clinical trial treatments;. • fatalities or other adverse events arising during a clinical trial due to medical problems that may not be related to clinical trial treatments;. • our ability to sustain the quality or stability of the applicable product candidate in compliance with acceptable standards;. • our inability to produce or obtain sufficient quantities of the applicable product candidate to complete the clinical trials;. • changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions that adversely affect our ability to continue to conduct or complete clinical trials;. • negative or problematic FDA inspections of our clinical operations or manufacturing operations; and. • real or perceived lack of effectiveness or safety.. We could encounter delays if a clinical trial is suspended or terminated by us, the IRBs of the clinical trial sites in which such trials are being conducted, or by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. Such authorities may impose such a suspension or termination due to a number of factors, including failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols, inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold, unforeseen safety issues or adverse side effects, failure to demonstrate a benefit from using a drug, changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions or lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. Any delays, interruptions or halts in our clinical trials involving any of our products or other adverse events negatively impacting our ability to obtain regulatory approvals for such products in a timely manner could adversely affect our overall profitability, results of operations and financial condition and prospects.. If we are unable to continue to successfully develop POZIOTINIB, ROLONTIS, QAPZOLA, or any of our other pipeline. products, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition will be materially harmed.. We are currently in a Phase 2 breast cancer trial for POZIOTINIB, a pivotal Phase 3 study (ADVANCE Study, or SPI-GCF-301) with respect to ROLONTIS and a Phase 3 study involving QAPZOLA. These products are in various stages of clinical development and these products will require significant further development, financial resources and personnel to obtain regulatory approval and develop into commercially viable products, if at all. Due to the uncertain and time-consuming clinical development and regulatory approval process, we may not successfully develop POZIOTINIB, ROLONTIS, QAPZOLA or any of our other pipeline products and it is possible that none of such pipeline products will ever become viable commercial products.. The announcement of any negative or unexpected data or the discontinuation of development of POZIOTINIB, ROLONTIS, QAPZOLA or any of our other pipeline products, any delay in our anticipated timelines for filing for regulatory approval or a significant advancement of a competitor, may cause our stock price to decline significantly and may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and prospects. In addition, clinical trial results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. There is no assurance that data from our clinical trials will support filings for regulatory approval of POZIOTINIB, ROLONTIS, QAPZOLA or any of our other pipeline products, or even if approved, that POZIOTINIB, ROLONTIS, QAPZOLA or any of our other pipeline products, will become commercially successful for all approved indications. In addition, we may experience significant setbacks in our advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials, including unexpected adverse events. Any deficiencies in the clinical trial operations for POZIOTINIB, ROLONTIS, QAPZOLA or any of our other pipeline products or other unexpected adverse. 22. Table of Contents. events impacting such trials could cause increased costs, program delays or both, which may harm our business. Negative or inconclusive clinical results regarding POZIOTINIB, ROLONTIS, QAPZOLA or any of our other pipeline products could adversely affect our ability to obtain regulatory approvals for such products. There is also no assurance that POZIOTINIB, ROLONTIS, QAPZOLA or any of our other pipeline products will prove to be effective or as effective as other competing compounds. If one of our pipeline products fails at any stage of development or we otherwise determine to discontinue development of that product, we will not have the anticipated revenues from that product and we may not receive any return on our investment in that product. We are engaging the FDA to discuss the potential to expedite the development of POZIOTINIB for patients with EGFR exon 20 mutations. We may not be granted such accelerated approval to market POZIOTINIB, and if we are granted accelerated approval to market POZIOTINIB, we may be subject to additional post-approval requirements.. If the development of POZIOTINIB, ROLONTIS, QAPZOLA or any our other pipeline products is delayed or discontinued, if POZIOTINIB, ROLONTIS, QAPZOLA or any of our other pipeline products fail to become commercial products, or if we experience other setbacks with respect to such products, our stock price could decline significantly and there could be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Pricing for pharmaceutical products has come under increasing scrutiny by governments, legislative bodies and enforcement agencies. Changes in laws and regulations that control drug pricing for government programs, allow for negotiated pricing, or limit product coverage and reimbursements may adversely impact our operating results and our business.. Many companies in our industry have received a governmental request for documents and information relating to drug pricing and patient assistance programs. We may become subject to similar requests, which would require us to incur significant expense and result in distraction for our management team. Additionally, to the extent there are findings, or even allegations, of improper conduct on the part of the company or its employees, such findings or allegations could result in negative publicity or other negative actions that could harm our reputation; cause changes in our product pricing and distribution strategies; reduce demand for our approved products and/or reduce reimbursement of approved products, including by federal health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid and state health care programs.. In addition, President Trump's administration has indicated an interest in taking measures pertaining to drug pricing, including potential proposals relating to Medicare price negotiations, and importation of drugs from other countries. There have been several recent U.S. Congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, reduce the cost of prescription drugs under Medicare, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drugs.  At this time, it is unclear whether any of these proposals will be pursued; however, if pursued they could adversely affect our products or our future product candidates.. Our supply of APIs, and drug products will be dependent upon the production capabilities of contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs, component and packaging supply sources, other third-party suppliers, and other providers of logistical services, some of whom are based overseas and, if these parties are not able to meet our demands and FDA scrutiny, we may be limited in our ability to meet demand for our products, ensure regulatory compliance or maximize profit on the sale of our products.. We have no internal manufacturing capacity for APIs or our drug products, and, therefore, we have entered into agreements with CMOs and other suppliers to supply us with APIs and our finished dose drug products. Success in the development and marketing of our drug products depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain, expand and enhance our existing relationships and establish new sources of supply. Some of the third-party manufacturing facilities used in the production of APIs and our drug products are located outside the U.S. The manufacture of APIs and finished drug products, including the acquisition of compounds used in the manufacture of the finished drug product, may require considerable lead times. We have little or no control over the production processes of third-party manufacturers, CMOs or other suppliers.. Our ability to source APIs and drug products is also dependent on providers of logistical services who may be subject to disruptions that we cannot predict or sufficiently plan around. Accordingly, while we do not currently anticipate shortages of supply, circumstances could arise in which we will not have adequate supplies to timely meet our requirements or market demand for a particular drug product could outstrip the ability of our supply source to timely manufacture and deliver the product, thereby causing us to lose sales. In addition, our ability to make a profit on the sale of our drug products depends on our ability to obtain price arrangements that ensure a supply of product at favorable prices.. If problems arise during the production of a batch of our drug products, that batch of product may have to be discarded. This could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, time and expense spent. 23. Table of Contents. investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred. To the extent that one of our suppliers experiences significant manufacturing problems, this could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability.. Finally, reliance on CMOs entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured products ourselves, including reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and adherence to the cGMP, requirements, the possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the CMO and the possibility of termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the CMO, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. Before we can obtain marketing approval for our drug products, our CMO facilities must pass an FDA pre-approval inspection. In order to obtain approval, all of the facility's manufacturing methods, equipment and processes must comply with cGMP requirements.. The cGMP requirements govern all areas of record keeping, production processes and controls, personnel and quality control. In addition, our CMOs will be subject to on-going periodic inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies for compliance with cGMP regulations, similar foreign regulations and other regulatory standards. We do not have control over our CMOs' compliance with these regulations and standards. Any failure of our third party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations, including an FDA pre-approval inspection, periodic on-going inspection by the FDA and cGMP requirements, could result in sanctions being imposed on them or us, including warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delay, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product, operation restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business.. Our efforts to acquire or in-license and develop additional drug products may fail, or acquired or in-licensed products may fail to perform as we anticipate, which might limit our ability to grow our business.. To remain competitive and grow our business, our long-term strategy includes the acquisition or in-license of additional drug products. We are actively seeking to acquire, or in-license, additional commercial drug products as well as drug products that have demonstrated positive pre-clinical and/or clinical data. We have certain criteria that we are looking for in any drug product acquisition and in-license and we may not be successful in locating and acquiring, or in-licensing, additional desirable drug products on acceptable terms.. To accomplish our acquisition and in-license strategy, we intend to commit efforts, funds and other resources to research and development and business development. Even with acquired and in-licensed drug products, a high rate of failure is inherent in the development of such products. We must make ongoing substantial expenditures without any assurance that our efforts will be commercially successful. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including after significant funds have been invested. For example, promising new drug product candidates may fail to reach the market or may only have limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve positive clinical outcomes, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, limited scope of approved uses, excessive costs to manufacture, the failure to establish or maintain intellectual property rights, limited payer coverage or infringement of the intellectual property rights of others.. In addition, many other large and small companies within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry seek to establish collaborative arrangements for product research and development, or otherwise acquire products in late-stage clinical development, in competition with us. We face additional competition from public and private research organizations, academic institutions and governmental agencies in establishing collaborative arrangements for drug products in late-stage clinical development. Many of the companies and institutions that compete against us have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs and facilities than we have, and greater experience in conducting business development activities. These entities represent significant competition to us as we seek to expand our portfolio through the in-license or acquisition of compounds. Finally, while it is not feasible to predict the actual cost of acquiring and developing additional drug products, that cost could be substantial and we may need to obtain additional financing for such purpose, which may further dilute existing stockholders.. We are aware of several competitors attempting to develop and market products competitive to our products, which may reduce or eliminate our commercial opportunities.. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological changes, and a number of companies are pursuing the development of pharmaceuticals and products that target the same diseases and conditions that our products target, including products currently commercialized. We cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of potentially competitive products or their possible effect on our sales. Certain potentially competitive products to our products are in various stages of development, some of which have pending. 24. Table of Contents. applications for approval with the FDA or have been approved by regulatory authorities in other countries. Also, there are many ongoing studies with currently marketed products and other developmental products, which may yield new data that could adversely impact the use of our products in their current and potential future indications. The introduction of competitive products or the development of technological advances that compete with our products could significantly reduce our sales, which, in turn would adversely impact our financial and operating results.. Reports of adverse events or safety concerns involving each of our products or similar agents, sold by us or our development partners and/or licensees, could delay or prevent us from obtaining or maintaining regulatory approval or negatively impact sales.. Certain of our products may cause SAEs. In addition to the risk associated with known SAEs, discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of such products, including the FDA-required post-approval studies, and could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities denying or withdrawing approval of our products for any or all indications. The FDA, other regulatory authorities or we may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time. We may also be required to update the package inserts based on reports of adverse events or safety concerns or implement a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, which could adversely affect such product's acceptance in the market. In addition, the public perception of our products might be adversely affected, which could harm our business and results of operations and cause the market price of our common stock to decline, even if the concern relates to another company's product or product candidate. Our planned trials to demonstrate efficacy in a variety of indications and to better manage side effect profiles of certain of our products may not be successful and there are no assurances that patients receiving our products will not experience SAEs in the future.. The known SAEs related to our commercialized products are as follows:. FOLOTYN:. Forty-four percent of patients experienced a serious adverse event while on the study or within 30 days after their last dose. The most common serious adverse events (> 3%), regardless of causality, were fever, mucositis (redness and sores of the mucous membrane lining of the mouth, lips, throat, stomach, and genitals), sepsis (complication of infection), febrile neutropenia (fever associated with low white blood cell count), dehydration, dyspnea (shortness of breath), and thrombocytopenia (low platelet count). One death from cardiopulmonary arrest in a patient with mucositis and febrile neutropenia was reported in this trial. Deaths from mucositis, febrile neutropenia, sepsis, and pancytopenia (deficiency of all three cellular components of the blood) occurred in 1.2% of patients treated on all FOLOTYN trials at doses ranging from 30 to 325 mg/m2.. FOLOTYN may cause serious side effects, including bone marrow suppression, manifested by thrombocytopenia (low platelet counts), neutropenia (low white blood cell counts), and/or anemia (low red blood cell count); mucositis (redness and sores of the mucous membrane lining of the mouth, lips, throat, stomach, and genitals); dermatologic reactions (severe skin reactions); tumor lysis syndrome (tumor cells releasing contents into blood stream); hepatic toxicity (harm to liver); risk of increased toxicity in the presence of impaired renal function (increased harm to the patients with abnormal kidney function); and embryo-fetal toxicity (harm to an unborn baby).. ZEVALIN:. ZEVALIN is associated with the following serious adverse reactions: serious infusion reactions, prolonged and severe cytopenias (low blood cell count), cutaneous and mucocutaneous (skin and mucus membrane) reactions, and leukemia and myelodysplastic syndrome.  The most serious adverse reactions of ZEVALIN are prolonged and severe cytopenias (low platelets, red blood cells, lymphocytes, white blood cells) and secondary malignancies.. MARQIBO:. Seventy-six percent of patients experienced serious adverse events during the studies. The most commonly reported serious adverse events (> 6%) included, febrile neutropenia (fever associated with low white blood cell count), fever, low-blood pressure, respiratory distress, and cardiac arrest.. 25. Table of Contents. MARQIBO may cause serious side effects, including extravasation tissue injury (leakage-induced tissue injury); neurologic toxicity (nerve problems, e.g., neuropathy); myelosuppression (low blood cell counts); tumor lysis syndrome (tumor cells releasing contents into blood stream); constipation and bowel obstruction (constipation and bowel blockage); fatigue (tiredness); hepatic toxicity (harm to liver); and embryo-fetal toxicity (harm to an unborn baby).. BELEODAQ:. Forty-seven percent of patients experienced serious adverse reactions while taking BELEODAQ or within 30 days after their last dose of BELEODAQ. The most common serious adverse reactions (> 2%) were pneumonia, fever, infection, anemia (low red blood cell count), increased creatinine, thrombocytopenia (low platelet count), and multi-organ failure. One treatment-related death associated with hepatic failure was reported in the trial.. BELEODAQ may cause serious side effects, including hematologic toxicity (low blood cell counts); serious infections; hepatotoxicity (liver problems); tumor lysis syndrome (tumor cell releasing contents into blood stream); gastrointestinal toxicity, including nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea; and embryo-fetal toxicity (harm to an unborn baby).. EVOMELA:. Twenty percent of patients experienced a treatment emergent serious adverse reaction while on study. The most common serious adverse reactions (>1 patient, 1.6%) were fever, hematochezia (blood in stools), febrile neutropenia (fever associated with low white blood cell count), and kidney failure. Treatment-related serious adverse reactions reported in >1 patient were pyrexia, febrile neutropenia, and hematochezia.. EVOMELA may cause serious side effects, including bone marrow suppression (low blood cell counts); gastrointestinal toxicity, including nausea, vomiting, diarrhea and mucositis (redness and sores of the lining of the mouth, lips, throat, stomach, and genitals); hepatotoxicity (liver problems); hypersensitivity (allergic reactions); secondary malignancies (secondary cancers); embryo-fetal toxicity (harm to an unborn baby); and infertility (harm to reproductive system).. Future reports of SAEs or safety concerns involving any of our products could adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects.. Our dependence on key executives, scientists and sales and marketing personnel could impact the development and management of our business.. We are highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical sales and marketing and managerial personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary, particularly as business prospects change, for the development and management of our business. Although we do not believe the loss of one individual would materially harm our business, our business might be harmed by the loss of the services of multiple existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical and managerial personnel in a timely manner. Much of the know-how we have developed resides in our scientific and technical personnel and is not readily transferable to other personnel. While we had an employment agreement with our former Chief Executive Officer, such agreement was terminated on or about December 17, 2017 and we do not have employment agreements with any of our key scientific, technical, or managerial employees.. A significant portion of our revenue currently comes from a limited number of distributors, and any decrease in revenue from these distributors could harm our business.. A significant portion of our revenue comes from a limited number of distributors. In the years ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, three distributors (and their affiliates) together represented approximately 89.7% and 93.4%, respectively, of our worldwide revenues. We further expect that a significant portion of our revenue will continue to depend on sales to a limited number of distributors in the foreseeable future. We do not have long-term commitments from our distributors to carry our products, and any of our distributors may from quarter to quarter comprise a significant concentration of our revenues. These distributors comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the U.S. and. 26. Table of Contents. a small number of large distributors and wholesalers control a significant share of the market, which can increase competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us. In addition, wholesalers may apply pricing pressure through their fee-for-service arrangements. Any reduction in the prices we receive for our products could adversely impact our revenues and financial condition. In addition, any individual distributor could choose to stop selling some or all of our products at any time, and without notice. If we lose our relationship with any of our significant distributors, we would experience disruption and delays in marketing our products and could also experience declines in our revenues which in turn could materially adversely impact our financial condition.. If the distributors that we rely upon to sell our products fail to perform, our business may be adversely affected.. Our success depends on the continued customer support efforts of our network of distributors. In the U.S., we sell our products to a small number of distributors who in turn sell-through to patient health care providers. These distributors also provide multiple logistics services relating to the distribution of our products, including transportation, warehousing, cross-docking, inventory management, packaging and freight-forwarding. We do not promote products to these distributors and they do not set or determine demand for products. The use of distributors involves certain risks, including, but not limited to, risks that these distributors will:. • not provide us with accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, the number of patients who are using our products or complaints about our products;. • not purchase sufficient inventory on hand to fulfill end user orders in a timely manner;. • be unable to satisfy financial obligations to us or others; and. • cease operations.. Any such actions may result in decreased sales of our products, which would harm our business.. Adverse economic conditions may have material adverse consequences on our business, results of operations and financial condition as well as our ability to raise additional capital.. Unpredictable and unstable changes in economic conditions, including recession, inflation, increased government intervention, or other changes, may adversely affect our general business strategy. In recent years, we have funded our operations through a combination of equity and debt offerings and sales of our pharmaceutical products. Based on our current plans and expectations, we believe that we will require additional funding to achieve our goals. We may need to raise these additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings, and any adverse economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to raise funds. If our business deteriorates, we may not be able to maintain compliance with any covenants or representations and warranties in any such financings which could result in reduced availability of such financings, an event of default under such financings, or could make other sources of financing unavailable to us. Any such event would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. While we believe we have adequate capital resources to meet our current working capital and capital expenditure requirements, an economic downturn or an increase in our expenses could require us to seek additional financing on less than attractive rates or on terms that are excessively dilutive to existing stockholders. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon clinical development plans or plans to acquire additional technology.. Volatile economic conditions may not only limit our access to capital, but may also make it difficult for our customers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause businesses to slow spending on our products, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. Furthermore, during challenging economic times, our customers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. In addition, adverse economic conditions could also adversely impact our suppliers' ability to provide us with materials which would negatively impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We are a small company relative to our principal competitors, and our limited financial resources may limit our ability to develop and market our drug products.. 27. Table of Contents. Many companies, both public and private, including well-known pharmaceutical companies and smaller niche-focused companies, are developing products to treat many, if not all, of the diseases we are pursuing or are currently distributing drug products that directly compete with the drugs that we sell or that we intend to develop, market and distribute.. Competition for branded or proprietary drugs is less driven by price and is more focused on innovation in the treatment of disease, advanced drug delivery and specific clinical benefits over competitive drug therapies. We may not be successful in any or all of our current clinical studies; or if successful, and if one or more of our drug products is approved by the FDA, we may encounter direct competition from other companies who may be developing products for similar or the same indications as our drug products.. Companies that have products on the market or in research and development that target the same indications as our products include, among others, AstraZeneca plc, Bayer AG, Endo International plc, Eli Lilly and Company, Novartis International AG, Genentech, Inc. (Roche Holding AG), Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Seattle Genetics, Inc., GlaxoSmithKline plc, Biogen Inc., OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Astellas Pharma Inc.), Cephalon, Inc. (Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.), Sanofi S.A., Pfizer, Inc., Merck & Co. Inc., Celgene Corporation, BiPar Sciences, Inc. (Sanofi S.A.), Sanofi Genzyme, Shire plc, AbbVie Inc., Poniard Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Johnson & Johnson. These companies may be more advanced in the development of competing drug products or are more established in the market.. Many of our competitors are large and well-capitalized companies focusing on a wide range of diseases and drug indications, and have substantially greater financial, research and development, marketing, human and other resources than we do. Furthermore, large pharmaceutical companies have significantly more experience than we do in pre-clinical testing, human clinical trials and regulatory approval procedures, among other things. As a result, our competitors may be more successful than us in developing their products, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing their products to consumers.. Our 2018 Convertible Notes are scheduled to mature in December 2018, and we may have limited resources available to pay these notes on the maturity date.. As of December 31, 2017, we owed $41 million in principal under our 2.75% Convertible Senior Notes due December 2018, or the 2018 Convertible Notes. The 2018 Convertible Notes mature on December 15, 2018. If the 2018 Convertible Notes have not been converted into shares of our common stock or otherwise discharged prior to December 15, 2018, we will have an obligation to pay the note holders all accrued and unpaid interest and principal on such notes. In such case, we would have to utilize cash on hand or find an alternative funding source to finance repayment of the 2018 Convertible Notes. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain alternative funding on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. If we are forced to use cash on hand to fund repayment of the 2018 Convertible Notes, the amount of our cash available for other purposes will be significantly reduced.. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2017, the 2018 Convertible Notes are eligible to be converted into shares of our common stock as certain conditions related to our common stock price were met. Our stockholders' have approved \"flexible settlement\" of the 2018 Convertible Notes, and as a result, we may (at our election) settle any future conversions of the 2018 Convertible Notes by paying or delivering cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. To the extent that we elect to settle such conversions in cash, the settlement amount is tied to our stock price over the 50 days prior to conversion. In such case, we would have to utilize cash on hand or find an alternative funding source to finance such cash settlements. Any use of cash on hand to fund such cash settlements would reduce the amount of our cash available for other purposes.. If actual future payments for allowances for discounts, returns, rebates and chargebacks exceed the estimates we made at the time of the sale of our products, including, without limitation, due to a change in the composition of our sales over time, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and negatively impacted.. We recognize product revenue net of estimated allowances for discounts, returns, rebates and chargebacks. Such estimates require our most subjective and complex judgment due to the need to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on industry practice, pharmaceutical companies, including us, have liberal return policies.  Our FUSILEV, MARQIBO, and BELEODAQ customers are permitted to return purchased products beginning at its expiration date and within six months thereafter. Our EVOMELA customers are permitted to return purchased product beginning at six months prior to its expiration date, and within 12 months following its expiration date (as well as for overstock inventory, as determined by end-users). We authorize returns for damaged products and exchanges for expired products in accordance with our returned goods policy and procedures. Also, like our competitors, we also give credits for chargebacks to wholesale customers that have contracts with us for their sales to hospitals, GPOs, pharmacies or other retail customers.. 28. Table of Contents. A chargeback is the difference between the price the wholesale customer (in our case, wholesalers/distributors) pays (wholesale acquisition cost) and the price that the wholesalers/distributor's customer pays for a product (contracted customer). Our products are subject to certain programs with federal government qualified entities whereby pricing on products is discounted to such entities and results in a chargeback claim to us. To the extent that our sales to discount purchasers, such as federal government qualified entities, increases, our chargebacks will also increase. There may be significant lag time between our original sale to the wholesaler and our receipt of the corresponding government chargeback claims from our wholesalers.. Our products are subject to state government-managed Medicaid programs, whereby rebates for purchases are issued to participating state governments. These rebates arise when the patient treated with our products is covered under Medicaid. Our calculations related to these Medicaid rebate accruals require us to estimate end-user and patient mix to determine which of our sales will likely be subject to these rebates. There is a significant time lag in us receiving these rebate notices (generally several months after our sale is made). Our estimates are based on our historical claims from participating state governments, as supplemented by management's judgment.. Although we believe that we have sufficient allowances, actual results may differ significantly from our estimated allowances for discounts, returns, rebates and chargebacks. Changes in estimates and assumptions based upon actual results may have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Such changes to estimates will be made to the financial statements in the year in which the estimate is changed. In addition, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and negatively impacted if actual future payments for allowances, discounts, returns, rebates and chargebacks exceed the estimates we made at the time of the sale of our products.. The marketing and sale of our products may be adversely affected by the marketing and sales efforts of third parties who sell our products or similar products outside of our territories.. We have only licensed the rights to develop and market our products in limited territories. Other companies market and sell the same products in other parts of the world. If, as a result of other companies' actions, negative publicity is associated with our products or similar products, our own efforts to successfully market and sell our products in our markets may be adversely impacted.. We have engaged in, and may in the future engage in strategic transactions that increase our capital requirements, dilute our stockholders, cause us to incur debt or assume contingent liabilities and subject us to other risks.. We actively evaluate various strategic transactions on an ongoing basis, including licensing or otherwise acquiring complementary products, technologies or businesses. Any potential acquisitions or in-licensing transactions may entail numerous risks, including but not limited to:. • risks associated with satisfying the closing conditions relating to such transactions and realizing their anticipated benefits;. • increased operating expenses and cash requirements;. • difficulty in conforming standards, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures;. • difficulty integrating acquired technologies, products and personnel with our existing business;. • difficulty conforming acquired operations, such as corporate and administrative functions, sales and marketing, or information technology and accounting systems with our existing business;. • diversion of management's attention in connection with both negotiating the acquisition or license and integrating the business, technology or product;. • retention of key employees. • uncertainties in our ability to maintain key business relationships of any acquired entities;. • strain on managerial and operational resources;. • exposure to regulatory, compliance and legal risks of the acquired entities;. • tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating operations;. • modifications to operating control standards to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder;. 29. Table of Contents. • difficulty coordinating geographically dispersed organizations;. • exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies or products or companies or products in which we invest; and. • potential costly and time-consuming litigation, including stockholder lawsuits.. As a result of these or other problems and risks, businesses, technologies or products we acquire or invest in or obtain licenses to may not produce the revenues, earnings or business synergies that we anticipated. In addition, acquired or licensed products may not perform as expected or we may not obtain necessary regulatory approvals on our anticipated timeline or at all.. As a result, we may incur higher costs and realize lower revenues than we had anticipated. We cannot assure you that any acquisitions or investments we have made or may make in the future will be completed or that, if completed, the acquired business, licenses, investments, products, or technologies will generate sufficient revenue to offset the negative costs or other negative effects on our business. Failure to effectively manage our growth through acquisition or in-licensing transactions could adversely affect our growth prospects, business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flow.. In addition, in connection with acquisitions and in-licensing transactions, we may spend significant amounts of capital, issue dilutive securities, assume or incur significant debt obligations or contingent liabilities, and acquire intangible assets that could result in significant future amortization expense and write-offs. Moreover, we may not be able to locate suitable acquisition opportunities and this inability could impair our ability to grow or obtain access to technology or products that may be important to the development of our business. Even if appropriate opportunities are available, we may not be able to successfully identify them or we may not have the financial resources necessary to pursue them, and if pursued, we may be unable to structure and execute transactions in on our anticipated timeframe, or at all. Other pharmaceutical companies, many of which may have substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources than we do, compete with us for these opportunities.. Even if we are able to successfully identify and acquire complementary products, technologies or businesses, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully manage the risks associated with integrating acquired products, technologies or businesses or the risks arising from anticipated and unanticipated problems in connection with an acquisition or in-licensing transaction. Further, while we seek to mitigate risks and liabilities of potential acquisitions and in-licensing transactions through, among other things, due diligence, there may be risks and liabilities that such due diligence efforts fail to discover, that are not disclosed to us, or that we inadequately assess. Any failure in identifying and managing these risks and uncertainties effectively would have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, actual costs and sales synergies, if achieved at all, may be lower than we expect and may take longer to achieve than we anticipate. Furthermore, the products of companies we acquire may overlap with our products or those of our customers, creating conflicts with existing relationships or with other commitments that are detrimental to the integrated businesses.. If we are unable to successfully integrate our acquisitions with our existing business, we may not obtain the advantages that the acquisitions were intended to create, which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, our ability to develop and introduce new products and the market price of our stock.. Our collaborations with outside scientists may be subject to change, which could limit our access to their expertise.. We work with scientific advisors and collaborators at research institutions. These scientists are not our employees and may have other commitments that would limit their availability to us. If a conflict of interest between their work for us and their work for another entity arises, we may lose their services, which could negatively impact our research and development activities.. We may rely on CROs and other third parties to conduct clinical trials and, in such cases, we are unable to directly control the timing, conduct and expense of our clinical trials.. We may rely, in full or in part, on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. In such situations, we have less control over the conduct of our clinical trials, the timing and completion of the trials, the required reporting of adverse events and the management of data developed through the trial than would be the case if we were relying entirely upon our own staff. Communicating with outside parties can also be challenging, potentially leading to mistakes as well as difficulties in coordinating activities. Outside parties may have staffing difficulties, may undergo changes in priorities or may become financially distressed, adversely affecting their willingness or ability to conduct our trials. We may experience unexpected cost increases that are beyond our control. Problems with the timeliness or quality of the work of a CRO may lead us to seek to terminate the relationship and use an alternative service provider. However, making this change may be costly and may delay. 30. Table of Contents. our trials, and contractual restrictions may make such a change difficult or impossible. Additionally, it may be challenging or impossible to find a replacement organization that can conduct our trials in an acceptable manner and at an acceptable cost.. Because we have obtained accelerated approval to market FOLOTYN, BELEODAQ and MARQIBO, we are subject to. ongoing regulatory obligations and review, including completion of the post-approval requirements.. FOLOTYN and BELEODAQ were approved for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL, and MARQIBO was approved for the treatment of adult patients with Ph-ALL in second or greater relapse or whose disease has progressed following two or more anti-leukemia therapies, under the FDA's accelerated approval regulations. These provisions allow the FDA to approve products for cancer or other serious or life threatening diseases based on initial positive data from clinical trials. Under these provisions, we are subject to certain post-approval requirements. Specifically, we are required to conduct Phase 1 dose escalating studies and a Phase 3 randomized study for FOLOTYN and BELEODAQ in patients with PTCL. The FDA also required that we conduct two Phase 1 trials to assess whether FOLOTYN poses a serious risk of altered drug levels resulting from organ impairment as well as additional post-marketing studies with BELEODAQ. For MARQIBO, we are required to conduct a randomized Phase 3 study in patients over 60 years of age with newly diagnosed ALL. Negative or inconclusive results in these additional trials could negatively impact, or preclude altogether, our ability to continue commercializing FOLOTYN, BELEODAQ OR MARQIBO. Failure to complete the studies or adhere to the timelines established by the FDA could result in penalties, including fines or withdrawal of FOLOTYN, BELEODAQ, and/or MARQIBO from the market, which could materially adversely affect our business.. The FDA may also initiate proceedings to withdraw approval or request that we voluntarily withdraw these drugs from the market if our Phase 3 studies fail to confirm clinical benefit. Further, the FDA may require us to amend the package inserts for these drugs, including by strengthening the warnings and precautions section or institute a REMS based on the results of these studies or clinical experience. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our proposed products, including unanticipated clinical trial results or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recall, fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product seizures, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, which could materially adversely affect our business. We are also subject to additional, continuing post-approval regulatory obligations, including the possibility of additional clinical studies required by the FDA, safety reporting requirements and regulatory oversight of the promotion and marketing of these drugs.. We may have conflicts with our third-party development partners that could delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our drug products.. We may have conflicts with our third-party development partners, such as conflicts concerning the interpretation of pre-clinical or clinical data, the achievement of milestones, the interpretation of contractual obligations, payments for services, development obligations or the ownership of intellectual property developed during our collaboration. If any conflicts arise with any of our third-party development partners, such partner may act in a manner that is adverse to our best interests. Any such disagreement could result in one or more of the following, each of which could delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our drug product, and in turn prevent us from generating revenues from such drug product:. • unwillingness on the part of a third-party development partner to pay us milestone payments or royalties that we believe are due to us under a collaboration;. • uncertainty regarding ownership of intellectual property rights arising from our collaborative activities, which could prevent us from entering into additional collaborations;. • unwillingness to cooperate in the manufacture of the product, including providing us with product data or materials;. • unwillingness to keep us informed regarding the progress of its development and commercialization activities or to permit public disclosure of the results of those activities;. • initiation of litigation or alternative dispute resolution options by either party to resolve the dispute;. • attempts by either party to terminate the collaboration;. • our ability to maintain or defend our intellectual property rights may be compromised by our partner's acts or omissions;. • a third-party development partner may utilize our intellectual property rights in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property rights or expose us to potential liability;. 31. Table of Contents. • a third-party development partner may change the focus of its development and commercialization efforts due to internal reorganizations, mergers, consolidations or otherwise;. • unwillingness to fully fund or commit sufficient resources to the testing, marketing, distribution or development of our products;. • unwillingness or inability to fulfill their obligations to us due to the pursuit of alternative products, conflicts of interest that arise or changes in business strategy or other business issues; and/or. • we may not be able to guarantee supplies of development or marketed products.. Given these risks, it is possible that any collaborative arrangements which we have or could enter into may not be successful.. From time to time we may need to in-license patents and proprietary technologies from third parties, which may be difficult or expensive to obtain.. We may need to obtain licenses to patents and other proprietary rights held by third parties to successfully develop, manufacture and market our drug products. As an example, it may be necessary to use a third party's proprietary technology to reformulate one of our drug products in order to improve upon the capabilities of the drug product. If we are unable to timely obtain these licenses on reasonable terms, or at all, our ability to commercially exploit our drug products may be inhibited or prevented.. The potential size of the market for our drug products is uncertain.. We often provide estimates of the number of people who suffer from the diseases that our drugs are targeting. However, there is limited information available regarding the actual size of these patient populations. In addition, it is uncertain whether the results from previous or future clinical trials of drug products will be observed in broader patient populations, and the number of patients who may benefit from our drug products may be significantly smaller than the estimated patient populations.. Generic levo-leucovorin product competition could further adversely affect our FUSILEV revenues.. FUSILEV continues to face direct competition from generic levo-leucovorin products as a result of the FDA ANDA approval and competitive product launches by two companies in 2015. As a result, this generic competition is expected to continue to adversely impact our FUSILEV product value including (i) sales, demand and market share, (ii) the price we are able to charge, (iii) the inventory levels that wholesalers maintain, and (iv) product return rates. Additional companies are expected to launch their generic levo-leucovorin products in the future, which could further adversely impact FUSILEV revenues.. On April 27, 2015, we filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia against the FDA seeking a temporary restraining order or preliminary injunction to suspend FDA approval of Sandoz's ANDA.  We have contended that Sandoz's ANDA should not have been approved until the expiry of our Orphan Drug Exclusivity on April 29, 2018. On April 29, 2015, the court denied the temporary restraining order and on May 27, 2015, the court entered summary judgment in favor of the FDA et al. On June 5, 2015, we filed our Notice of Appeal. On June 3, 2016, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia affirmed the judgment in favor of the FDA et al. All costs pertaining to this matter (incurred and accrued) have been recognized within \"selling, general and administrative\" expenses on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations for all periods presented.. Our collaboration partner, Mundipharma International Corporation Limited, or Mundipharma, may not be successful in obtaining regulatory approval for FOLOTYN in a number of countries and FOLOTYN is subject to numerous complex regulatory requirements.. Our collaboration partner, Mundipharma, may not be successful in obtaining regulatory approval for FOLOTYN in a number of countries and FOLOTYN is subject to numerous complex regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with, or changes to, the regulatory requirements that are applicable to FOLOTYN outside the U.S. may result in a variety of consequences, including the following:. • restrictions on FOLOTYN or our manufacturing processes;. • warning letters;. • withdrawal of FOLOTYN from the market;. 32. Table of Contents. • voluntary or mandatory recall of FOLOTYN;. • fines against us;. • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals for FOLOTYN;. • suspension or termination of any of our ongoing clinical trials of FOLOTYN;. • refusal to permit import or export of FOLOTYN;. • refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit;. • denial of permission to file an application or supplement in a jurisdiction;. • product seizure; and/or. • injunctions, consent decrees, or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties against us.. The occurrence of one or more of the above-mentioned actions could have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Changes in our effective income tax rate could adversely affect our profitability.. We are subject to federal and state income taxes in the U.S. and our tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions. Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our effective income tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited to:. • interpretations of existing tax laws;. • the accounting for stock options and other share-based compensation;. • changes in tax laws and rates;. • future levels of research and development spending;. • changes in accounting standards;. • changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate;. • the outcome of examinations by the Internal Revenue Service and tax regulators in other jurisdictions;. • the accuracy of our estimates for unrecognized tax benefits;. • realization of deferred tax assets; and. • changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings.. The impact on our income taxes resulting from the above-mentioned factors may be significant and could have an impact on our profitability.. Our sales and operations are subject to the risks of doing business internationally.. We have a presence in international markets subjecting us to many risks that could adversely affect our business and revenues, such as:. • the inability to obtain necessary foreign regulatory or pricing approvals of products in a timely manner;. • collectability of accounts receivable;. • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, in particular the recent strength of the U.S. dollar versus foreign. • currencies that has adversely impacted our revenues and net income;. • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;. • the imposition of governmental controls;. • less favorable intellectual property or other applicable laws;. • increasingly complex standards for complying with foreign laws and regulations that may differ substantially from. 33. Table of Contents. • country to country and may conflict with corresponding U.S. laws and regulations;. • the far-reaching anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation in the U.K., including the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, and. • elsewhere and escalation of investigations and prosecutions pursuant to such laws;. • compliance with complex import and export control laws;. • restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities and trade restrictions;. • greater political or economic instability; and. • changes in tax laws and tariffs.. Failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws applicable to our international operations could result in various adverse consequences, including: possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product; recalls, seizures or withdrawal of an approved product from the market; disruption in the supply or availability of our products or suspension of export or import privileges; the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions; the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations; and damage to our reputation. Any significant impairment of our ability to sell products outside of the U.S. could adversely impact our business and financial results.. If our employees, representatives or agents fail to comply with regulatory standards and requirements, we could be exposed to financial, reputational or other harm.. Our business and financial condition could be adversely affected to the extent that our employees, representatives or agents fail to:. • comply with FDA regulations or similar regulations of similar regulatory authorities in other countries;. • provide accurate information to the FDA or similar regulatory authorities in other countries;. • comply with manufacturing standards we, the FDA or similar authorities in other countries have established;. • comply with federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations or similar laws and regulations. • established and enforced by comparable foreign regulatory authorities;. • comply with the provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA; or. • report financial information or clinical or preclinical data accurately.. In particular, sales, marketing and business arrangements in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive laws and regulations intended to prevent fraud, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. These laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, sales commission, customer incentive programs and other business arrangements. Misconduct by our employees, representatives or agents could also involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to identify and deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent these activities may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses, or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, even if we are ultimately exonerated, we could incur substantial costs and expenses in an effort to defend ourselves or to assert our rights and any such actions could result in reputational harm to us or have a significant impact on our business and results of operations, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions.. Earthquakes or other natural or man-made disasters and business interruptions could adversely affect our business.. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, power loss, floods, telecommunications failure and other events beyond our control. In addition, our operations are susceptible to disruption as a result of natural disasters such as earthquakes. So far we have never experienced any significant disruption of our operations as a result of earthquakes or other natural or man-made disasters. Although we have a contingency recovery plan, any significant business interruption could cause delays in our drug development and future sales and harm our business.. A breakdown or breach of our information technology systems and cyber security efforts could subject us to liability, reputational damage or interrupt the operation of our business.. 34. Table of Contents. We rely upon our sophisticated information technology systems and infrastructure to operate our business.  In the ordinary course of business, we collect, store and transmit large amounts of confidential information (including, but not limited to, personal information and intellectual property), and we deploy and operate an array of technical and procedural controls to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information.  Data privacy breaches by those who access our systems, whether by employees or others, may pose a risk that sensitive data, including intellectual property, trade secrets or personal information belonging to us, our patients, employees, customers or other business partners, may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public or otherwise used for unauthorized purposes. We could also experience a business interruption, noncompliance with data privacy laws, theft of confidential information, or reputational damage from industrial espionage attacks, malware or other cyber-attacks, which may compromise our system infrastructure or lead to data leakage, either internally or at our third-party providers.  Such attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication, frequency and intensity, and have become increasingly difficult to detect. There can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our data and information technology systems will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems (or that of our third-party providers). Any such interruption or breach of our systems or improper use of confidential data could adversely affect our business operations, financial condition, and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive confidential information or intellectual property, and could result in financial, legal, business and reputational harm to us.. We have a history of net losses. We expect to continue to incur net losses and may not achieve profitability for some time, if at all.. We have incurred net losses in each of the years ended December 31, 2017, December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015. We have incurred these losses principally from costs incurred in our research and development programs and from our selling, general and administrative expenses. We expect that in the foreseeable future we will continue to spend substantial amounts on research and development, including amounts for conducting required post-approval and other clinical trials of FOLOTYN, BELEODAQ and MARQIBO. In addition, we expect to make substantial expenditures to further develop and potentially commercialize POZIOTINIB, ROLONTIS and QAPZOLA, as well as our other product candidates. Accordingly, we expect to continue to incur net losses in the foreseeable future and may not achieve profitability for some time, if at all. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, the market value of our common stock will likely decline.. Risks Related to Our Industry. If we are unable to adequately protect our technology or enforce our patent rights, our business could suffer.. Our success with the drug products that we develop will depend, in part, on our ability and the ability of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection for these products. We currently have a number of U.S. and foreign patents issued and pending, however, we primarily rely on patent rights licensed from others. Our license agreements generally give us the right and/or obligation to maintain and enforce the subject patents. We may not receive patents for any of our pending patent applications or any patent applications we may file in the future. If our pending and future patent applications are not allowed or, if allowed and issued into patents, if such patents and the patents we have licensed are not upheld in a court of law, our ability to competitively exploit our drug products would be substantially harmed. Also, such patents may or may not provide competitive advantages for their respective products or they may be challenged or circumvented by our competitors, in which case our ability to commercially exploit these products may be diminished.. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in pharmaceutical and biotechnology patents has emerged to date in the U.S. The laws of many countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws, and those countries may lack adequate rules and procedures for defending our intellectual property rights. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on all our products or product candidates throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions not covered by any of our patent claims or other intellectual property rights.. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. We do not know whether any of our patent applications will result in the issuance of any patents, and we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed in our patent applications or in the patent applications we license from others.. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example:. 35. Table of Contents. • in certain jurisdictions, we or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our or our licensors' pending patent applications and issued patents, and we may have to participate in expensive and protracted interference proceedings to determine priority of invention;. • we or our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions;. • others may independently develop similar or alternative product candidates or duplicate any of our or our licensors' product candidates;. • our or our licensors' pending patent applications may not result in issued patents;. • our or our licensors' issued patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable products or may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties;. • others may design around our or our licensors' patent claims to produce competitive products that fall outside the scope of our or our licensors' patents;. • we may not develop or in-license additional patentable proprietary technologies related to our product candidates; or. • the patents of others may prevent us from marketing one or more of our product candidates for one or more indications that may be valuable to our business strategy.. An issued patent does not guarantee us the right to practice the patented technology or commercialize the patented product. Third parties may have blocking patents that could be used to prevent us from commercializing our patented products and practicing our patented technology. Patents issued to us and our licensors and those that may be issued in the future to us and our licensors may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to prevent competitors from marketing related product candidates or could limit the length of the term of patent protection of our product candidates.  Our competitors may independently develop similar technologies. In addition, because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before any of our product candidates can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantage of the patent.. We also rely on trade secret protection and contractual protections for our unpatented and proprietary drug compounds. Trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and others, these agreements may not successfully protect our trade secrets or other confidential and proprietary information. It is possible that these agreements will be breached, or that they will not be enforceable in every instance, and that we will not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Likewise, although we conduct periodic trade secret audits of certain partners, vendors and contract manufacturers, these trade secret audits may not protect our trade secrets or other confidential and proprietary information. It is possible that despite having certain trade secret audit security measures in place, trade secrets or other confidential and proprietary information may still be leaked or disclosed to a third party. It is also possible that our trade secrets will become known or independently developed by our competitors.. We also rely on trademarks to protect the names of our products. These trademarks may be challenged by others. If we enforce our trademarks against third parties, such enforcement proceedings may be expensive. Some of our trademarks, including ZEVALIN are owned by, or assignable to, our licensors and, upon expiration or termination of the applicable license agreements, we may no longer be able to use these trademarks. If we are unable to adequately protect our technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how, or enforce our patents and trademarks, our business, financial condition and prospects could suffer.. Intellectual property rights are complex and uncertain and therefore may subject us to infringement claims.. The patent positions related to our drug products are inherently uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. We believe that there is significant litigation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. A patent does not provide the patent holder with freedom to operate in a way that infringes the patent rights of others. We may be accused of patent infringement at any time. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts, and the interpretation is not always uniform. If we are sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that our products or methods do not infringe the patent claims of the relevant patent and/or that the patent claims are invalid or unenforceable, and we may not be able to do this. Proving invalidity, in particular, is difficult since it requires a showing of clear and convincing evidence to overcome the presumption of validity enjoyed by issued patents in the U.S.. Although we are not aware of any infringement by any of our drug products on the rights of any third party, there may be third party patents or other intellectual property rights, including trademarks and copyrights, relevant to our drug products of. 36. Table of Contents. which we are not aware. Third parties may assert patent or other intellectual property infringement claims against us, or our licensors and collaborators, with products. Any claims that might be brought against us relating to infringement of patents may cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, may cause us to pay substantial damages and result in the loss of our use of the intellectual property that is critical to our business strategy.. In the event that we or our partners are found to infringe any valid claim of a patent held by a third party, we may, among other things, be required to:. • pay damages, including up to treble damages and the other party's attorneys' fees, which may be substantial;. • cease the development, manufacture, use and sale of our products that infringe the patent rights of others through a court-imposed sanction such as an injunction;. • expend significant resources to redesign our products so they do not infringe others' patent rights, which may not be possible;. • discontinue manufacturing or other processes incorporating infringing technology; or. • obtain licenses to the infringed intellectual property, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.. Rapid bio-technological advancement may render our drug products obsolete before we are able to recover expenses incurred in connection with their development. As a result, some of our drug products may never become profitable.. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapidly evolving biotechnology. Biotechnologies under development by other pharmaceutical companies could result in treatments for diseases and disorders for which we are developing our own treatments. Several other companies are engaged in the research and development of compounds that are similar to our efforts. A competitor could develop a new biotechnology, product or therapy that has better efficacy, a more favorable side-effect profile or is more cost-effective than one or more of our drug products and thereby cause our drug products to become commercially obsolete. Some of our drug products may become obsolete before we recover the expenses incurred in their development. As a result, such products may never become profitable.. Failure to obtain regulatory approval outside the U.S. will prevent us from marketing our product candidates abroad.. We intend to market certain of our existing and future product candidates in and outside of the U.S. In order to market our existing and future product candidates in the EU and many other foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals according to the applicable domestic laws and regulations. We have had limited interactions with foreign regulatory authorities, and the approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval as well as other risks specific to the jurisdictions in which we may seek approval. Approval by the FDA does not guarantee approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one or more foreign regulatory authorities does not necessarily ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries.. A failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory approval process in others. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We may not be able to file for foreign regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our existing and future product candidates in any market.. Competition for patients in conducting clinical trials may prevent or delay product development and strain our limited financial resources.. Many pharmaceutical companies are conducting clinical trials involving patients with the disease indications that our drug products target. As a result, we must compete with them for clinical sites, physicians and the limited number of patients who fulfill the stringent requirements for participation in clinical trials. Also, due to the confidential nature of clinical trials, we do not know how many of the eligible patients may be enrolled in competing studies and who are consequently not available to us for our clinical trials. Our clinical trials may be delayed or terminated due to the inability to enroll enough patients. Patient enrollment depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the study. The delay or inability to meet planned patient enrollment may result in increased costs and delays or termination of the trial, which could have a harmful effect on our ability to develop products.. 37. Table of Contents. Even after we receive regulatory approval to market our drug products, the market may not be receptive to our drug products upon their commercial introduction, which would negatively impact our ability to achieve profitability.. Our drug products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of any approved drug products will depend on a number of factors, including:. • the effectiveness of the drug product;. • the prevalence and severity of any side effects;. • potential advantages or disadvantages over alternative treatments;. • relative convenience and ease of administration;. • the strength of marketing and distribution support;. • the price of the drug product, both in absolute terms and relative to alternative treatments; and. • sufficient third-party coverage and reimbursement.. If our drug products receive regulatory approval but do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, healthcare payers and patients, we may not generate drug product revenues sufficient to attain profitability.. Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products.. Government agencies, such as the CMS, promulgate regulations, and issue guidelines, directly applicable to us and to our products. In addition, third parties such as professional societies, practice management groups, insurance carriers, physicians, private health/science foundations and organizations involved in various diseases from time to time may publish guidelines or recommendations to healthcare providers, administrators and payers, and patient communities. Recommendations may relate to such matters as utilization, dosage, route of administration and use of related therapies and coverage and reimbursement of our products by government and private payers. Third-party organizations like the above have in the past made recommendations about our products. Recommendations or guidelines that are followed by patients and healthcare providers could result in decreased utilization and/or dosage of our products, any of which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results materially.. The sale of our products is subject to regulatory approvals, and our business is subject to extensive regulatory requirements, and if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, or if we fail to comply with governmental regulations, we will be limited in our ability to commercialize our products and product candidates and/or subject us to penalties.. We are not permitted to market or promote any of our product candidates before we receive regulatory approval from the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities, and we may never receive such regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. Obtaining regulatory approval of a new drug is an uncertain, lengthy and expensive process, and success is never guaranteed. Despite the time, resources and effort expended, failure can occur at any stage. During each stage, there is a substantial risk that we will encounter serious obstacles that will further delay us and add substantial expense, that we will develop a product with limited potential for commercial success, or that we will be forced to abandon a product in which we have invested substantial amounts of time and money. These risks may include failure of the product candidate in preclinical studies, difficulty enrolling patients in clinical trials, clinical trial holds or other delays in completing clinical trials, delays in completing formulation and other testing and work necessary to support an application for regulatory approval, adverse reactions to the product candidate or other safety concerns, insufficient clinical trial data to support the safety or efficacy of the product candidate or to differentiate our product candidate from competitors, an inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of the product candidate for development or commercialization activities in a timely and cost-effective manner, and failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, the required regulatory approvals for the product candidate or the facilities in which it is manufactured. In order to receive approval from the FDA for each product candidate, we must demonstrate that the new drug product is safe and effective for its intended use and that the manufacturing processes for the product candidate comply with the FDA's cGMPs, which include requirements related to production processes, quality control and assurance, and recordkeeping. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process for human medicines.. The FDA and comparable agencies in foreign countries impose many requirements related to the drug development process through lengthy and rigorous clinical testing and data collection procedures, and other costly and time consuming compliance procedures. While we believe that we are currently in compliance with applicable FDA regulations, if we or our partners, the CROs or CMOs with which we have relationships, fail to comply with the regulations applicable to our clinical. 38. Table of Contents. testing, the FDA may delay, suspend or cancel our clinical trials, or the FDA might not accept the test results. The FDA, an institutional review board, third party investigators, any comparable regulatory agency in another country, or we, may suspend clinical trials at any time if the trials expose subjects participating in such trials to unacceptable health risks. Further, human clinical testing may not show any current or future drug product to be safe and effective to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable regulatory agencies, or the data derived from the clinical tests may be unsuitable for submission to the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Once we submit an application seeking approval to market a drug product, the FDA or other regulatory agencies may not issue their approvals on a timely basis, if at all. If we are delayed or fail to obtain these approvals, our business and prospects may be significantly damaged. In addition, any regulatory approvals that we receive for our future product candidates may also be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which they may be marketed or contain requirements for potentially cost prohibitive post-marketing follow-up studies and surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of the product.. If we obtain regulatory approval for our drug products, we, our partners, our manufacturers, and other contract entities will continue to be subject to extensive requirements by a number international, federal, state and local agencies. These regulations will impact many aspects of our operations, including testing, research and development, manufacturing, safety, effectiveness, labeling, storage, quality control, adverse event reporting, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of our future products. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities strictly regulate the promotional claims that may be made about prescription products and our product labeling, advertising and promotion is subject to continuing regulatory review. Physicians may nevertheless prescribe our product to their patients in a manner that is inconsistent with the approved label, or that is off-label. The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses, and if we are found to have improperly promoted off-label uses we may be subject to significant sanctions, civil and criminal fines and injunctions prohibiting us from engaging in specified promotional conduct.. In addition, the Company is subject to the federal False Claims Act, or the FCA, as well as the false claims laws of several states. The FCA prohibits any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Suits filed under the FCA, known as \"qui tam\" actions, can be brought by any private individual on behalf of the government and such private individuals, commonly known as \"whistleblowers,\" may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. The filing of qui tam actions has caused a number of pharmaceutical, medical device and other healthcare companies to have to defend a FCA action. When an entity is determined to have violated the FCA, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties for each separate false claim. Various states also have enacted laws modeled after the federal FCA.. In order to comply with these laws, we have implemented a compliance program designed to identify, prevent and mitigate risk through the implementation of compliance policies and training systems. We cannot guarantee that our compliance program will be sufficient or effective, that our employees will comply with our policies, that our employees will notify us of any violation of our policies, that we will have the ability to take appropriate and timely corrective action in response to any such violation, or that we will make decisions and take actions that will necessarily limit or avoid liability for whistleblower claims that individuals, such as employees or former employees, may bring against us or that governmental authorities may prosecute against us based on information provided by individuals. If we are found to be in violation of any of the laws and regulations described above or other applicable state and federal healthcare laws, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, contractual damages, reputational harm, imprisonment, diminished profits and future earnings, exclusion from government healthcare reimbursement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, additional reporting requirements and oversight if we become subject to a corporate integrity agreement or similar agreement to resolve allegations of non-compliance with these laws, and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and growth prospects. Any action against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal, state and foreign healthcare laws is costly and time-consuming for our management.. The discovery of previously unknown safety risks with drug products approved to go to market or on the market may raise costs, prevent us from marketing such products, or require us to change the labeling of our products or take other potentially limiting or costly actions.. The later discovery of previously unknown safety risks with our commercial products may result in the imposition of restrictions on distribution or use of the drug product, including withdrawal from the market. The FDA may revisit and change its prior determinations with regard to the safety and efficacy of our products. If the FDA's position changes, we may be required to change our labeling or to cease manufacture and marketing of the products at issue. Even prior to any formal. 39. Table of Contents. regulatory action, we could voluntarily decide to cease the distribution and sale or recall any of our products if concerns about their safety or effectiveness develop.. The FDA has significant authority to take regulatory actions in the event previously unknown safety risks are identified or if data suggest that our products may present a risk to safety. For example, the FDA may:. • require sponsors of marketed products to conduct post-approval clinical studies to assess a known serious risk, signals of serious risk or to identify an unexpected serious risk;. • mandate labeling changes to products, at any point in a product's lifecycle, based on new safety information; and. • require sponsors to implement a REMS for a product which could include a medication guide, patient package insert, a communication plan to healthcare providers, or other elements the FDA deems necessary to assure safe use of the drug (either prior to approval or post-approval as necessary).. Failure to comply with a REMS could result in significant civil monetary penalties or other administrative actions by the FDA. Further, regulatory agencies could change existing, or promulgate new, regulations at any time which may affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our existing or future products or require significant additional costs to obtain or maintain such approvals.. Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system and pharmaceutical industry related to pricing, coverage or reimbursement may hurt our ability to sell our products profitably or at all.. Our ability to commercialize any products successfully will depend in part on the availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers such as government authorities, private health insurers, health maintenance organizations including pharmacy benefit managers and other health care-related organizations, in both the U.S. and foreign markets. Even if we succeed in bringing one or more products to market, the amount reimbursed for our products may be insufficient to allow us to compete effectively and could adversely affect our profitability. Coverage and reimbursement by governmental and other third-party payers may depend upon a number of factors, including a governmental or other third-party payer's determination that use of a product includes but is not limited to:. • a covered benefit under its health plan;. • safe, effective and medically necessary;. • appropriate for the specific patient;. • cost-effective; and. • neither experimental nor investigational.. Obtaining coverage and reimbursement approval for a product from each third-party and governmental payer is a time-consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our products to each payer. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to obtain coverage and adequate reimbursement.. In both the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been and may continue to be a number of legislative and regulatory proposals related to coverage and reimbursement that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, collectively referred to as the Healthcare Reform Law, was signed into law on March 30, 2010. The Healthcare Reform Law substantially changed the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers and significantly impacted the pharmaceutical industry. The Healthcare Reform Law included, among other things, an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports specified branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, revisions to the definition of \"average manufacturer price\" for reporting purposes, increases in the amount of rebates owed by drug manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, expansion of the 340B drug discount program that mandates discounts to certain hospitals, community centers and other qualifying providers, and changes to affect the Medicare Part D coverage gap, or \"donut hole.\" The full effects of these provisions will become apparent as these laws are implemented and the CMS and other agencies issue applicable regulations or guidance as required by the Healthcare Reform Law. Moreover, in the coming years, additional changes could be made to governmental healthcare programs that could significantly impact the success of our products.. 40. Table of Contents. The high cost of pharmaceuticals continues to generate substantial government interest. It is possible that proposals will be adopted, or existing regulations that affect the coverage and reimbursement of pharmaceutical and other medical products may change, that may impact our products currently on the market and any of our products approved for marketing in the future. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for any of our products or product candidates. In addition, third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services. Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of newly-approved pharmaceutical products. Future developments may require us to decrease the price that we charge for our products, thereby negatively affecting our financial results.. In some foreign countries, particularly in the EU, prescription drug pricing is subject to governmental control. Drug pricing may be made against a reference price set by the healthcare providers as a measure for healthcare cost containment. Pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. If coverage and reimbursement of our products are unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels for the purpose of adoption of these products in the national health services in these jurisdictions, our profitability will likely be negatively affected.. If we market products in a manner that violates federal or state health care fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including exclusion from participation in government health care programs.. As a pharmaceutical company, even though we do not provide healthcare services or receive payments directly from or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payers for our products, we are subject to certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse applicable to our business. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and/or exclusion or suspension from federal and state health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid and debarment from contracting with the U.S. government.. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include the federal health care program Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering, or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally-financed health care programs. This statute applies to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers. Although there are a number of statutory exceptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities, the exceptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exception or safe harbor.. Pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in off-label promotion that caused claims to be submitted to Medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. Federal enforcement agencies have also recently scrutinized product and patient assistance programs, including manufacturer reimbursement support services as well as relationships with specialty pharmacies. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of such laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal health care programs and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment, or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our. business and our financial results. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business.. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 also created prohibitions against health care fraud and false statements relating to health care matters. The health care fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program, including private payers. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services.. In addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians. The federal \"Sunshine\" requirements pursuant to the Healthcare Reform Law imposed new requirements on (i) manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to CMS information related to payments or other \"transfers of value\" made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors and. 41. Table of Contents. teaching hospitals), and (ii) applicable manufacturers and GPOs to report annually to CMS ownership and investment interests held by physicians (as defined above) and their immediate family members and payments or other \"transfers of value\" to such physician owners and their immediate family members. Manufacturers were required to begin data collection on August 1, 2013 and to report such data to the government by March 31, 2014 and by the 90th calendar day of each year thereafter. Failure to submit the required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for \"knowing failures\"), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission, and may result in liability under other federal laws or regulations.. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to these federal laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. In addition, some states have laws that require pharmaceutical companies to adopt comprehensive compliance programs. For example, under California law, pharmaceutical companies must comply with both the April 2003 Office of Inspector General Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and the PhRMA Code on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals, as amended. Certain states also mandate the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation, and other remuneration paid by us to physicians and other health care providers. We have adopted and implemented a compliance program designed to comply with applicable federal, state and local requirements wherever we operate, including but not limited to the laws of the states of California and Nevada.. Although compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, the risks cannot be entirely eliminated. Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly and materially affects our business. Among other effects, health care regulations substantially increase the time, difficulty and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining approval to market newly developed and existing products. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. We expect compliance with these regulations to require significant technical expertise and capital investment to ensure the reasonable design and operation of an effective compliance program.. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. The Healthcare Reform Law also made several important changes to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, false claims laws, and health care fraud statute by weakening the intent requirement under the anti-kickback and health care fraud statutes that may make it easier for the government, or whistleblowers to charge such fraud and abuse violations. A person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the Health Care Reform Law provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. In addition, the Healthcare Reform Law increases penalties for fraud and abuse violations. If our past, present or future operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or other similar governmental regulations to which we are subject, we may incur significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment, exclusion from government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and negatively impact our financial results.. We may be involved in lawsuits to defend or enforce our patents, which could be expensive, time-consuming and unsuccessful.. Competitors may infringe upon our patents. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that one or more of our patents is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated, held unenforceable, or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would involve substantial litigation expense and would be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business.. Interference or derivation proceedings provoked by third parties or brought by the USPTO may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patents or patent applications. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Our business could be harmed if the prevailing party does not offer us a license on commercially reasonable terms. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distract our management and other employees. We may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our trade secrets or confidential information, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the U.S. or in Europe.. 42. Table of Contents. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery that could be required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on our stock price.. We may be subject to product liability claims, and may not have sufficient product liability insurance to cover any such claims, which may expose us to substantial liabilities.. We may be held liable if any product we or our partners develop causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, clinical trials, marketing or sale. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims could result in decreased demand for our product candidates, injury to our reputation, withdrawal of patients from our clinical trials, substantial monetary awards to trial participants and the inability to commercialize any products that we may develop. These claims might be made directly by consumers, health care providers, competing pharmaceutical companies or others selling or testing our products. Although we currently carry product liability insurance that we believe is adequate, it is possible that this coverage will be insufficient to protect us from future claims. Additionally, our insurance may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, if insurance coverage becomes more expensive, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. Failure to maintain sufficient insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and results of operations if claims are made that exceed our coverage.. On occasion, juries have awarded large judgments in class action lawsuits for claims based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. In addition, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, in general, have been subject to significant medical malpractice litigation. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could harm our reputation and business and financial condition.. We could be adversely affected by violations of the FCPA, and other worldwide anti-bribery laws.. The FCPA prohibits U.S. companies and their respective representatives from offering, promising, authorizing, or making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. In many countries, the health care professionals we regularly interact with meet the definition of a foreign government official for purposes of the FCPA. We have policies and procedures in place to ensure that we comply with the FCPA and similar laws; however, there is no assurance that such policies and procedures will protect us against liability under the FCPA or related laws for actions taken by our employees and intermediaries with respect to our business. Failure to comply with the FCPA and related laws could disrupt our business and lead to criminal and civil penalties including fines, suspension of our ability to do business with the federal government and denial of government reimbursement of our products, which could result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We could also be adversely affected by any allegation that we violated such laws.. The use of hazardous materials, including radioactive and biological materials, in our research and development and commercial efforts imposes certain compliance costs on us and may subject us to liability for claims arising from the use or misuse of these materials.. Our research and development, manufacturing (including a radiolabeling step for ZEVALIN) and administration of our drugs involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals, radioactive and biological materials, such as radioactive isotopes. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations governing, among other matters, the handling, storage, use and disposal of these materials and some waste byproducts. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these materials and we could be held liable for any damages that result, which could exceed our financial resources. We currently maintain insurance coverage for injuries resulting from the hazardous materials we use; however, future claims may exceed the amount of our coverage. Also, we do not have insurance coverage for environmental cleanup and removal. Currently the costs of complying with such federal, state, local and foreign environmental regulations are not significant, and consist primarily of waste disposal expenses. However, they could become expensive, and current or future environmental laws or regulations may impair our research, development, production and commercialization efforts.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. 43. Table of Contents. Future issuances of our common stock or instruments convertible or exercisable into our common stock, including in connection with conversions of the 2018 Convertible Notes or exercises of outstanding options and warrants, may materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock and cause dilution to our existing stockholders.. We may obtain additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in the near future. If we issue additional shares of common stock or instruments convertible into common stock, it may materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. In the past, we have issued shares of common stock pursuant to at-the-market-issuance sales agreements and we may do so in the future. Certain issuances by us of equity securities may be at or below the prevailing market price of our common stock and may have a dilutive impact on our existing stockholders. In addition, the conversion of some or all of the 2018 Convertible Notes or any other convertible notes which we may issue in the future and/or the exercise of some or all of our outstanding options, warrants or other rights may likewise dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders, and any sales in the public market of any shares of our common stock issuable upon such conversion or exercise, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock.. These issuances or other dilutive issuances would also cause our per share net income, if any, to decrease in future periods.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $41 million in outstanding principal under our 2018 Convertible Notes, which were convertible into 3.9 million shares of common stock at the conversion rate in effect on December 31, 2017. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, 15.9 million shares of common stock were issuable pursuant to the exercise of outstanding options, restricted stock units and warrants. The exercise or conversion of these securities and the sale of the underlying shares of common stock may have an adverse effect upon the price of our common stock, which could fall as a result of sales of any of these shares of common stock. In addition, 14.6 million  shares of common stock were reserved for future issuance under our equity compensation plans.. The convertible note hedge and warrant transactions that we entered into in December 2013 may affect the value of our common stock.. In connection with the pricing of our convertible notes in December 2013, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions and separate warrant transactions with RBC Capital Markets, LLC, or RBC. The convertible note hedge transactions are expected generally to reduce the potential dilution upon any conversion of the notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted notes, as the case may be. The warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the warrants. RBC and/or its affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the convertible notes (and is likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of notes). This activity could cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock.. In addition, if the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions fail to become effective, through the failure of counterparties to perform or otherwise, RBC and/or its affiliates may unwind its hedge positions with respect to our common stock, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. The potential effect, if any, of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time (though they could adversely affect the value of our common stock).. We are subject to the risks of securities and related litigation, which may expose us to substantial liabilities and could seriously harm our business.. We may be subject to the risk of securities litigation and derivative actions from time to time as a result of being publicly traded, including the remaining unresolved actions set forth in \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings.\" There can be no assurance that any settlement or liabilities in such actions or any future lawsuits or claims against us would be covered or partially covered by our insurance policies, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings in one or more periods. While we and our Board of Directors deny the allegations of wrongdoing against us in the unresolved actions initiated against us, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome or timing of their resolutions. In addition to the potential costs and liabilities, securities litigation could divert management's attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business.. The market price and trading volume of our common stock fluctuate significantly and could result in substantial losses for individual investors.. 44. Table of Contents. The stock market from time to time experiences significant price and trading volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price and trading volume of our common stock to decrease. In addition, the market price and trading volume of our common stock is often highly volatile.. Factors that may cause the market price and volume of our common stock to decrease include, among other things:. • recognition on up-front licensing or other fees or revenues;. • payments of non-refundable up-front or license fees, or payment for cost-sharing expenses, to third parties;. • adverse results or delays in our clinical trials;. • fluctuations in our results of operations;. • timing and announcements of our technological innovations or new products or those of our competitors;. • developments concerning any strategic alliances or acquisitions we may enter into;. • announcements of FDA non-approval of our products, or delays in the FDA or other foreign regulatory review processes or actions;. • changes in recommendations or guidelines of government agencies or other third parties regarding the use of our products;. • adverse actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our drug products, clinical trials, manufacturing processes or sales and marketing activities;. • concerns about our products being reimbursed;. • any lawsuit involving us or our products;. • developments with respect to our patents and proprietary rights;. • public concern as to the safety of products developed by us or others;. • regulatory developments in the U.S. and in foreign countries;. • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock or lack of analyst coverage;. • the pharmaceutical industry generally and general market conditions;. • failure of our results of operations to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors;. • sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders or sales of substantial amounts of our common stock generally;. • hedging or arbitrage transactions by holders of the 2018 Convertible Notes;. • changes in accounting principles; and. • loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel.. Also, certain dilutive securities such as warrants can be used as hedging tools which may increase volatility in our stock and cause a price decline. While a decrease in market price could result in direct economic loss for an individual investor, low trading volume could limit an individual investor's ability to sell our common stock, which could result in substantial economic loss as well. From January 3, 2017 through February 15, 2018, the closing price of our common stock ranged between $4.46 and $23.07, and the daily trading volume was as high as 19.6 million shares and as low as 0.2 million shares.. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, a securities class action litigation may be instituted against that company. Regardless of their merit, these types of lawsuits generally result in substantial legal fees and management's attention and resources being diverted from the operations of a business.. Provisions of our charter, bylaws and stockholder rights plan may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us or replace current management even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, which may lower the price an acquirer or investor would pay for our stock.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, both as amended, may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us or replace our current management. These provisions include:. 45. Table of Contents. • the ability of our Board of Directors to amend our bylaws without stockholder approval;. • the inability of stockholders to call special meetings;. • the ability of members of the Board of Directors to fill vacancies on the Board of Directors;. • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent, unless such consent is unanimous; and. • the establishment of advance notice requirements for the nomination of candidates for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. These provisions may make it more difficult for stockholders to take certain corporate actions and could delay, discourage or prevent someone from acquiring our business or replacing our current management, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock.. We have a stockholder rights plan pursuant to which we distributed rights to purchase units of our Series B junior participating preferred stock. Subject to the exception noted below, the rights become exercisable upon the earlier of ten days after a person or group of affiliated or associated persons has acquired 15% (or 20% in the case of a designated holder) or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock or ten business days after a tender offer has commenced that would result in a person or group beneficially owning 15% (or 20% in the case of a designated holder) or more of our outstanding common stock. These rights could delay or discourage someone from acquiring our business, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. In October 2017, we amended our stockholders rights plan to treat BlackRock Inc. and its affiliates as a \"designated holder\" and, to our knowledge, we currently have no stockholders who own 15% or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock or designated holders who own 20% or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock.. Our failure to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, our failure to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which in turn could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.. The results of our periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting are required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to maintain enhanced monitoring controls and improved detection and communication of financial misstatements across all levels of the organization could result in (i) material weaknesses, (ii) material misstatements in our financial statements, requiring restatements of our previously-filed financial statements, and (iii) cause us to fail to meet our timely reporting and debt compliance obligations. These outcomes could cause us to lose public confidence, and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. For further information regarding our controls and procedures, see Item 9A. Controls and Procedures."
