[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Spire's and the Utilities' business and financial results are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those set forth below. The risks described below are those the Company and the Utilities consider to be material. When considering any investment in Spire or the Utilities' securities, investors should carefully consider the following information, as well as information contained in the caption \"Forward-Looking Statements,\" Item 7A, and other documents Spire, Spire Missouri, and Spire Alabama file with the SEC. This list is not exhaustive, and Spire's and the Utilities' respective management places no priority or likelihood based on the risk descriptions, order of presentation or grouping by subsidiary. All references to dollar amounts are in millions.. RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES THAT RELATE TO THE BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS OF SPIRE AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES. As a holding company, Spire depends on its operating subsidiaries to meet its financial obligations.. Spire is a holding company with no significant assets other than the stock of its operating subsidiaries and cash investments. Spire, and Spire Missouri prior to the holding company's formation in 2000, have paid dividends continuously since 1946. Spire's ability to pay dividends to its shareholders is dependent on the ability of its subsidiaries to generate sufficient net income and cash flows to pay upstream dividends and make loans or loan repayments. In addition, because it is a holding company and the substantial portion of its assets are represented by its holdings in the Utilities, the risks faced by the Utilities as described below under RISKS THAT RELATE TO THE GAS UTILITY SEGMENT may also adversely affect Spire's cash flows, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. A downgrade in Spire's and/or its subsidiaries' credit ratings may negatively affect its ability to access capital.. Currently, Spire and its utility subsidiaries have investment grade credit ratings, which are subject to review and change by the rating agencies. Standard & Poor's has rated Spire's debt at BBB+, one notch lower than its issuer rating of A-, and Moody's (which does not use issuer ratings) rated Spire's debt at Baa2. There is no assurance that such credit ratings for any of the Spire companies will remain in effect for any given period of time or that such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies, if, in each rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant. Spire has a working capital line of credit to meet its short-term liquidity needs. Spire's line of credit may be used to meet the liquidity needs of any of its subsidiaries, subject to sublimits. If the rating agencies lowered the credit rating at any of these entities, particularly below investment grade, it might significantly limit such entity's ability to secure new or additional credit facilities and would increase its costs of borrowing. Spire's or the Utilities' ability to borrow under current or new credit facilities and costs of that borrowing have a direct impact on their ability to execute their operating strategies.. Unexpected losses may adversely affect Spire's or its subsidiaries' financial condition and results of operations.. As with most businesses, there are operations and business risks inherent in the activities of Spire's subsidiaries. If, in the normal course of business, Spire or any of its subsidiaries becomes a party to litigation, such litigation could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalties or be resolved on unfavorable terms. In accordance with customary practice, Spire and its subsidiaries maintain insurance against a significant portion of, but not all, risks and losses. In addition, in the normal course of its operations, Spire and its subsidiaries may be exposed to loss from other sources, such as bad debt expense or the failure of a counterparty to meet its financial obligations. Spire and its operating companies employ many strategies to gain assurance that such risks are appropriately managed, mitigated, or insured, as appropriate. To the extent a loss is not fully covered by insurance or other risk mitigation strategies, that loss could adversely affect the Company's and/or its subsidiaries' financial condition and results of operations.. 10. Increased inter-dependence on technology may hinder Spire's and its subsidiaries' business operations and adversely affect their financial condition and results of operations if such technologies fail.. Over the last several years, Spire and its subsidiaries have implemented or acquired a variety of technological tools including both Company-owned information technology and technological services provided by outside parties. These tools and systems support critical functions including Spire and its subsidiaries' integrated planning, scheduling and dispatching of field resources, its automated meter reading system, customer care and billing, procurement and accounts payable, operational plant logistics, management reporting, and external financial reporting. The failure of these or other similarly important technologies, or the Company's or its subsidiaries' inability to have these technologies supported, updated, expanded, or integrated into other technologies, could hinder their business operations and adversely impact their financial condition and results of operations.. Although the Company and its subsidiaries have, when possible, developed alternative sources of technology and built redundancy into their computer networks and tools, there can be no assurance that these efforts to date would protect against all potential issues related to the loss of any such technologies or the Utilities' use of such technologies.. A cyber-attack may disrupt Spire's operations or lead to a loss or misuse of confidential and proprietary information or potential liability.. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to cyber-security risks primarily related to breaches of security pertaining to sensitive customer, employee, and vendor information maintained by the Company, its subsidiaries, or its third-party vendors in the normal course of business, as well as breaches in the technology that manages natural gas distribution operations and other business processes. A loss of confidential or proprietary data or security breaches of other technology business tools could adversely affect the Company's and its subsidiaries' reputation, diminish customer confidence, disrupt operations, and subject the Company and its subsidiaries to possible financial liability, any of which could have a material effect on the Company's and its subsidiaries' financial condition and results of operations. The Company and its subsidiaries closely monitor both preventive and detective measures to manage these risks and maintain cyber risk insurance to mitigate a significant portion, but not all, of these risks and losses. To the extent that the occurrence of any of these cyber events is not fully covered by insurance, it could adversely affect the Company's and its subsidiaries' financial condition and results of operations.. Resources expended to pursue business acquisitions, investments or other business arrangements may adversely affect Spire's financial position and results of operations and return on investments made may not meet expectations.. From time to time, Spire may seek to grow through strategic acquisitions, investments or other business arrangements. Attractive acquisition and investment opportunities may be difficult to complete on economically acceptable terms. It is possible for Spire to expend considerable resources pursuing acquisitions and investments but, for a variety of reasons, decide not to move forward. Similarly, investment opportunities may be hindered or halted by regulatory or legal actions. To the extent that acquisitions or investments are made, such transactions involve a number of risks, including but not limited to, the assumption of material liabilities, the diversion of management's attention from daily operations, difficulties in assimilation and retention of employees, securing adequate capital to support the transaction, and regulatory approval. Uncertainties exist in assessing the value, risks, profitability, and liabilities associated with certain businesses or assets and there is a possibility that anticipated operating and financial efficiencies expected to result from an acquisition or investment do not develop. The failure to complete an acquisition successfully or to integrate future acquisitions or investments that it may undertake could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations and the market's perception of the Company's execution of its strategy. To the extent Spire engages in any of the above activities together with or through one or more of its subsidiaries, including the Utilities, such subsidiaries may face the same risks.. 11. Failure to obtain required approvals and land rights or significant issues during the construction of the STL Pipeline could adversely impact Spire's investment in the project.. The STL Pipeline is under jurisdiction of the FERC. Accordingly, the development, construction and operation of the project is subject to extensive regulatory oversight and requires various regulatory approvals, including federal and state environmental permits and licenses. Such projects are often subject to legal and political uncertainties which can be difficult to predict or control. These projects also require the acquisition of land rights, mostly from private landowners. Although FERC approval confers federal eminent domain authority, there is some risk and uncertainty associated with the cost of acquiring land rights, including potential condemnation costs. Spire may be unable to obtain required regulatory approvals or acquire necessary land rights, or may experience higher costs or delays in doing so.. Construction of such assets are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including supply chain and labor disruptions, weather conditions during construction, potential interconnection issues with other pipelines, equipment failures and construction quality issues. Any of these adverse events regarding regulatory approvals, land rights or construction risks could result in an impairment of Spire's investment in the project, and such impairment could have a materially adverse effect on Spire's financial condition and results of operations.. Workforce risks may affect the Company's financial results.. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to various workforce risks, including, but not limited to, the risk that it will be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel; that it will be unable to effectively transfer the knowledge and expertise of an aging workforce to new personnel as those workers retire; and that it will be unable to reach collective bargaining arrangements with the unions that represent certain of its workers, which could result in work stoppages.. The Company and its subsidiaries have substantial indebtedness which could adversely affect their financial condition.. Spire's total consolidated indebtedness as of September 30, 2017 was $2,572.3 (comprising $477.3 of short-term borrowings and $2,095.0 of long-term debt, including current portion). Spire Missouri's total indebtedness as of September 30, 2017 was $1,176.9 (comprising $203.0 of short-term borrowings, including borrowings from affiliates, and $973.9 of long-term debt, including current portion). Spire Alabama's total indebtedness as of September 30, 2017 was $417.7 (comprising $169.9 of short-term borrowings, including borrowings from affiliates, and $247.8 of long-term debt).. The indebtedness of the Company and its subsidiaries could have important consequences. For example, it could:. • make it difficult to pay or refinance their debts as they become due during adverse economic and industry conditions;. • limit flexibility to pursue strategic opportunities or react to changes in its business and the industry in which they operate and, consequently, place them at a competitive disadvantage to competitors with less debt;. • require a significant portion of cash flows from operations of their respective subsidiaries to be used for debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of their cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments and other general corporate activities;. • result in a downgrade in the credit rating of Spire's or the Utilities' indebtedness, which could limit the ability to borrow additional funds or increase the applicable interest rates;. • result in higher interest expense in the event of an increase in market interest rates for both short-term commercial paper or bank loans;. • reduce the amount of credit available to support hedging activities; and. • require that additional terms, conditions or covenants be placed on Spire or the Utilities.. Based upon current levels of operations, Spire and its subsidiaries expect to be able to generate sufficient cash through earnings on a consolidated basis or through refinancing to make all the principal and interest payments when such payments are due under their existing credit agreements, indentures and other instruments governing outstanding indebtedness; but there can be no assurance that Spire or its subsidiaries will be able to repay or refinance such borrowings and obligations in future periods.. 12. In addition, in order to maintain investment-grade credit ratings, Spire and its subsidiaries may consider it appropriate to reduce the amount of indebtedness outstanding following acquisitions. This may be accomplished in several ways, including, in the case of Spire, issuing additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into shares of common stock, or in the case of Spire or its subsidiaries, reducing discretionary uses of cash or a combination of these and other measures. Issuances of additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into shares of common stock would have the effect of diluting the ownership percentage that shareholders hold in the Company, increasing the Company's dividend payment obligations and perhaps reducing the reported earnings per share.. Recent acquisitions may not achieve their intended results, including anticipated efficiencies and cost savings.. Although the Company and its subsidiaries expect that the recent acquisitions will result in various benefits, including a significant cost savings and other financial and operational benefits, there can be no assurance regarding when or the extent to which the Company and its subsidiaries will be able to realize or retain these benefits. Achieving and retaining the anticipated benefits, including cost savings, is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the assets acquired can be operated in the manner the Company and its subsidiaries intended. Events outside of the control of the Company and its subsidiaries, including but not limited to regulatory changes or developments, could also adversely affect their ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisitions.. Thus, the integration of acquired businesses may be unpredictable, subject to delays or changed circumstances, and the Company and its subsidiaries can give no assurance that the acquisitions will perform in accordance with their expectations or that their expectations with respect to integration or cost savings as a result of the acquisitions will materialize. In addition, the anticipated costs to the Company and its subsidiaries to achieve the integration of the acquired businesses may differ significantly from current estimates. The integration may place an additional burden on management and internal resources, and the diversion of management's attention during the integration process could have an adverse effect on the Company's and its subsidiaries' business, financial condition and expected operating results.. In connection with acquisitions, Spire Missouri and Spire recorded goodwill and long-lived assets that could become impaired and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations.. Spire and Spire Missouri assess goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if events or circumstances occur that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. The Company and Spire Missouri assess their long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that an asset's carrying amount may not be recoverable. To the extent the value of goodwill or long-lived assets becomes impaired, the Company and Spire Missouri may be required to incur impairment charges that could have a material impact on their results of operations.. Since interest rates are a key component, among other assumptions, in the models used to estimate the fair values of the Company's reporting units, as interest rates rise, the calculated fair values decrease and future impairments may occur. Due to the subjectivity of the assumptions and estimates underlying the impairment analysis, Spire and Spire Missouri cannot provide assurance that future analyses will not result in impairment. These assumptions and estimates include projected cash flows, current and future rates for contracted capacity, growth rates, weighted average cost of capital and market multiples. For additional information, see Item 7, Critical Accounting Estimates.. Changes in accounting standards may adversely impact the Utilities' financial condition and results of operations.. Spire and its subsidiaries are subject to changes in US generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), SEC regulations and other interpretations of financial reporting requirements for public utilities. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries have any control over the impact these changes may have on their financial condition or results of operations nor the timing of such changes. The potential issues associated with rate-regulated accounting, along with other potential changes to GAAP that the US Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) continues to consider may be significant.. 13. Climate change and regulatory and legislative developments in the energy industry related to climate change may in the future adversely affect operations and financial results.. Climate change, and the extent regulatory or legislative changes occur to address the potential for climate change, could adversely affect operations and financial results of the Company. Management believes it is likely that any such resulting impacts would occur very gradually over a long period of time and thus would be difficult to quantify with any degree of specificity. To the extent climate change results in warmer temperatures, financial results could be adversely affected through lower gas volumes and revenues and lack of marketing opportunities. Another possible impact of climate change may be more frequent and more severe weather events, such as hurricanes and tornadoes, which could increase costs to repair damaged facilities and restore service to customers. If the Company were unable to deliver natural gas to customers, financial results would be impacted by lost revenues, and the Utilities generally would have to seek approval from regulators to recover restoration costs. To the extent the Utilities would be unable to recover those costs, or if higher rates resulting from recovery of such costs would result in reduced demand for the Company's services, the Company's and the Utilities' future business, financial condition or financial results could be adversely impacted. In addition, there have been a number of federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives proposed in recent years in an attempt to control or limit the effects of global warming and overall climate change, including greenhouse gas emissions, such as methane and carbon dioxide. The adoption of this type of legislation by Congress or similar legislation by states or the adoption of related regulations by federal or state governments mandating a substantial reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the future could have far-reaching and significant impacts on the energy industry. Such new legislation or regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, affect the demand for natural gas or impact the prices charged to customers. At this time, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws or regulations that may be adopted on the Company's and the Utilities' future business, financial condition or financial results.. Changes to income tax policy, certain tax elections, tax regulations and future taxable income could adversely impact the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company has significantly reduced its federal and state income tax obligations over the past few years through tax planning strategies and the extension of bonus depreciation deductions for certain expenditures for property. As a result, the Company has generated large annual taxable losses that have resulted in significant federal and state net operating losses. The Company plans to utilize these net operating losses in the future to reduce income tax obligations. The value of these net operating losses could be reduced if the Company cannot generate enough taxable income in the future to utilize all of the net operating losses before they expire due to lower than expected financial performance or if the Internal Revenue Service does not agree with the filing positions of the Company.. Changes to income tax policy, laws and regulations, including but not limited to changes in tax rates, the deductibility of certain expenses including interest and state and local income taxes and/or changes in the deductibility of certain expenditures for property, could adversely impact the Company. If enacted, those impacts could include reducing the value of its net operating losses and could result in material charges to earnings. Further, the Company's financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted.. Spire's pension and other postretirement benefits plans are subject to investment and interest rate risk that could negatively impact its financial condition.. The Company and its subsidiaries have pension and other postretirement benefits plans that provide benefits to many of their employees and retirees. Costs of providing benefits and related funding requirements of these plans are subject to changes in the market value of the assets that fund the plans. The funded status of the plans and the related costs reflected in our financial statements are affected by various factors, which are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, including economic conditions, financial market performance, interest rates, life expectancies and demographics. Recessions and volatility in the domestic and international financial markets have negatively affected the asset values of Spire's pension plans at various times in the past. Poor investment returns or lower interest rates may necessitate accelerated funding of the plans to meet minimum federal government requirements, which could have an adverse impact on the Company's and its subsidiaries' financial condition and results of operations.. 14. RISKS THAT RELATE TO THE GAS UTILITY SEGMENT. Regulation of the Utilities' businesses may impact rates they are able to charge, costs, and profitability.. The Utilities are subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities. At the state level, the Utilities are regulated in Missouri by the Missouri Public Service Commission (MoPSC), in Alabama by the Alabama Public Service Commission (APSC), and in Mississippi by the Mississippi Public Service Commission (MSPSC). These state public service commissions regulate many aspects of the Utilities' distribution operations, including construction and maintenance of facilities, operations, safety, the rates the Utilities may charge customers, the terms of service to their customers, transactions with their affiliates, the rate of return they are allowed to realize, and the accounting treatment for certain aspects of their operations. For further discussion of these accounting matters, see Item 7, Critical Accounting Estimates pertaining to the Utilities' operations.. The Utilities' ability to obtain and timely implement rate increases and rate supplements to maintain the current rate of return is subject to regulatory review and approval. There can be no assurance that they will be able to obtain rate increases or rate supplements or continue earning the current authorized rates of return. Spire Alabama's and Spire Gulf's rate setting process, Rate Stabilization and Equalization (RSE), is subject to regulation by the APSC and is implemented pursuant to an APSC order that will continue beyond September 30, 2018 and September 30, 2021, respectively, unless the APSC enters an order to the contrary in a manner consistent with the law. Spire Mississippi is subject to regulation by the MSPSC and utilizes the Rate Stabilization Adjustment (RSA) Rider. For further details, see Regulatory and Other Matters in Item 7.. The Utilities could incur additional costs if required to adjust to new laws or regulations, revisions to existing laws or regulations or changes in interpretations of existing laws or regulations such as the Dodd-Frank Act. In addition, as the regulatory environment for the natural gas industry increases in complexity, the risk of inadvertent noncompliance could also increase. If the Utilities fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, whether existing or new, they could be subject to fines, penalties or other enforcement action by the authorities that regulate the Utilities' operations.. The Utilities are involved in legal or administrative proceedings before various courts and governmental bodies that could adversely affect their results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. The Utilities are involved in legal or administrative proceedings before various courts and governmental bodies with respect to general claims, rates, environmental issues, gas cost prudence reviews and other matters. For further details, see Contingencies in Note 15 to the financial statements in Item 8. Adverse decisions regarding these matters, to the extent they require the Utilities to make payments in excess of amounts provided for in their financial statements, or to the extent they are not covered by insurance, could adversely affect the Utilities' results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. The Utilities' liquidity may be adversely affected by delays in recovery of their costs, due to regulation.. In the normal course of business, there is a lag between when the Utilities incur increases in certain of their costs and the time in which those costs are considered for recovery in the ratemaking process. Cash requirements for increased operating costs, increased funding levels of defined benefit pension and postretirement costs, capital expenditures, and other increases in the costs of doing business can require outlays of cash prior to the authorization of increases in rates charged to customers, as approved by the MoPSC, APSC, and MSPSC. Accordingly, the Utilities' liquidity can be adversely impacted to the extent higher costs are not timely recovered from their customers.. The Utilities' ability to meet their customers' natural gas requirements may be impaired if contracted gas supplies, interstate pipeline and/or storage services are not available or delivered in a timely manner.. In order to meet their customers' annual and seasonal natural gas demands, the Utilities must obtain sufficient supplies, interstate pipeline capacity, and storage capacity. If they are unable to obtain these, either from their suppliers' inability to deliver the contracted commodity or the inability to secure replacement quantities, the Utilities' financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. If a substantial disruption in interstate natural gas pipelines' transmission and storage capacity were to occur during periods of heavy demand, the Utilities' financial results could be adversely impacted.. 15. The Utilities' liquidity and, in certain circumstances, the Utilities' results of operations may be adversely affected by the cost of purchasing natural gas during periods in which natural gas prices are rising significantly.. The tariff rate schedules of the Missouri Utilities, Spire Gulf and Spire Mississippi contain Purchased Gas Adjustment (PGA) clauses and Spire Alabama's tariff rate schedule contains a Gas Supply Adjustment (GSA) rider that permit the Utilities to file for rate adjustments to recover the cost of purchased gas. Changes in the cost of purchased gas are flowed through to customers and may affect uncollectible amounts and cash flows and can therefore impact the amount of capital resources.. Currently, the Missouri Utilities are allowed to adjust the gas cost component of rates up to four times each year while Spire Alabama and Spire Gulf (collectively, the Alabama Utilities) and Spire Mississippi may adjust the gas cost component of their rates on a monthly basis. The Missouri Utilities must make a mandatory gas cost adjustment at the beginning of the winter, in November, and during the next twelve months may make up to three additional discretionary gas cost adjustments, so long as each of these adjustments is separated by at least two months.. The MoPSC typically approves the Missouri Utilities' PGA changes on an interim basis, subject to refund and the outcome of a subsequent audit and prudence review. Due to such review process, there is a risk of a disallowance of full recovery of these costs. Any material disallowance of purchased gas costs would adversely affect revenues. The Alabama Utilities' gas supply charges are submitted for APSC review on a monthly basis, regardless of whether there is a request for a change, so prudence review occurs on an ongoing basis. Spire Mississippi's PGA is adjusted on a monthly basis for the most recent charges, and is filed at the MSPSC on a monthly basis.. Increases in the prices the Utilities charge for gas may also adversely affect revenues because they could lead customers to reduce usage and cause some customers to have trouble paying the resulting higher bills. These higher prices may increase bad debt expenses and ultimately reduce earnings. Rapid increases in the price of purchased gas may result in an increase in short-term debt.. To lower financial exposure to commodity price fluctuations, Spire Missouri enters into contracts to hedge the forward commodity price of its natural gas supplies. As part of this strategy, Spire Missouri may use fixed-price, forward, physical purchase contracts, swaps, futures, and option contracts. However, Spire Missouri does not hedge the entire exposure of energy assets or positions to market price volatility, and the coverage will vary over time. Any costs, gains, or losses experienced through hedging procedures, including carrying costs, generally flow through the PGA clause, thereby limiting the Missouri Utilities' exposure to earnings volatility. However, variations in the timing of collections of such gas costs under the PGA clause and the effect of cash payments for margin deposits associated with the Missouri Utilities' use of natural gas derivative instruments may cause short-term cash requirements to vary. These procedures remain subject to prudence review by the MoPSC.. Spire Alabama currently does not utilize risk mitigation strategies that incorporate commodity hedge instruments, but has the ability to do so through its GSA. Spire Gulf hedges gas supply for up to 30 months in advance, and Spire Mississippi utilizes hedging for the upcoming heating season.. The Utilities' business activities are concentrated in three states.. The Utilities provide natural gas distribution services to customers in Alabama, Mississippi, and Missouri. Changes in the regional economies, politics, regulations and weather patterns of these states could negatively impact the Utilities' growth opportunities and the usage patterns and financial condition of customers and could adversely affect the Utilities' earnings, cash flow, and financial position.. The Utilities may be adversely affected by economic conditions.. Periods of slowed economic activity generally result in decreased energy consumption, particularly by industrial and large commercial companies, a loss of existing customers, fewer new customers especially in newly constructed buildings. As a consequence, national or regional recessions or other downturns in economic activity could adversely affect the Utilities' revenues and cash flows or restrict their future growth. Economic conditions in the Utilities' service territories may also adversely impact the Utilities' ability to collect accounts receivable, resulting in an increase in bad debt expense.. 16. Environmental laws and regulations may require significant expenditures or increase operating costs.. The Utilities are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of their present and future operations. These laws and regulations require the Utilities to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections, and approvals. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations and failure to obtain any required permits and licenses may result in costs to the Utilities in the form of fines, penalties or business interruptions, which may be material. In addition, existing environmental laws and regulations could be revised or reinterpreted and/or new laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to the Utilities or their facilities, thereby impacting the Utilities' cost of compliance. The discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions, including former manufactured gas plant sites, and claims against the Utilities under environmental laws and regulations may result in expenditures and liabilities, which could be material. To the extent environmental compliance costs are not fully covered by insurance or recovered in rates from customers, those costs may have an adverse effect on the Utilities' financial condition and results of operations.. The Utilities are subject to pipeline safety and system integrity laws and regulations that may require significant expenditures or significant increases in operating costs.. Such laws and regulations affect various aspects of the Utilities' present and future operations. These laws and regulations require the Utilities to maintain pipeline safety and system integrity by identifying and reducing pipeline risks. Compliance with these laws and regulations, or future changes in these laws and regulations, may result in increased capital, operating and other costs which may not be recoverable in a timely manner from customers in rates.. Failure to comply may result in fines, penalties, or injunctive measures that would not be recoverable from customers in rates and could result in a material effect on the Utilities' financial condition and results of operations.. Transporting, distributing, and storing natural gas and propane involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs.. Gas distribution activities inherently involve a variety of hazards and operations risks, such as leaks, accidental explosions, damage caused by third parties, and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in serious injury to employees and non-employees, loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of operations, and substantial losses to the Utilities. The location of pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. Similar risks also exist for Spire Missouri's propane storage, transmission and minor distribution operations. These activities may subject the Utilities to litigation or administrative proceedings. Such litigation or proceedings could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalties against the Utilities or be resolved on unfavorable terms. The Utilities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations requiring the Utilities to maintain certain safety and system integrity measures by identifying and managing storage and pipeline risks. Compliance with these laws and regulations, or future changes in these laws and regulations, may result in increased capital, operating and other costs which may not be recoverable in a timely manner from customers in rates. In accordance with customary industry practices, the Utilities maintain insurance against a significant portion, but not all, of these risks and losses. To the extent that the occurrence of any of these events is not fully covered by insurance, it could adversely affect the Utilities' financial condition and results of operations.. Because of the highly competitive nature of its business, the Utilities may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers, which could have an adverse impact on their business, operating results and financial condition.. The Utilities face the risk that customers may bypass gas distribution services by gaining distribution directly from interstate pipelines or, in the case of Spire Alabama and Spire Gulf, also from municipally or publicly owned gas distributors located adjacent to its service territory. The Utilities cannot provide any assurance that increased competition or other changes in legislation, regulation or policies will not have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition or results of operations.. 17. The Utilities compete with distributors offering a broad range of services and prices, from full-service distributors to those offering delivery only. The Utilities also compete for retail customers with suppliers of alternative energy products, principally propane and electricity. If they are unable to compete effectively, the Utilities may lose existing customers and/or fail to acquire new customers, which could have a material adverse effect on their business, operating results and financial condition.. Changes in the wholesale costs of purchased natural gas supplies may adversely impact the Utilities' competitive position compared with alternative energy sources.. Changes in wholesale natural gas prices compared with prices for electricity, fuel oil, coal, propane, or other energy sources may affect the Utilities' retention of natural gas customers and may adversely impact their financial condition and results of operations.. Significantly warmer-than-normal weather conditions, the effects of climate change, legislative and regulatory initiatives in response to climate change or in support of increased energy efficiency, and other factors that influence customer usage may affect the Utilities' sale of heating energy and adversely impact their financial position and results of operations.. The Utilities' earnings are primarily generated by the sale of heating energy. The Missouri Utilities have weather mitigation rate designs and the Alabama Utilities have Temperature Adjustment Riders (TARs), each of which is approved by the respective state regulatory body, which provide better assurance of the recovery of fixed costs and margins during winter months despite variations in sales volumes due to the impacts of weather and other factors that affect customer usage. However, significantly warmer-than-normal weather conditions in the Utilities' service areas and other factors, such as climate change, alternative energy sources and increased efficiency of gas furnaces and other appliances, may result in reduced profitability and decreased cash flows attributable to lower gas sales. Furthermore, continuation of the weather mitigation rate design at Spire Missouri East, the rate design whereby distribution costs are recovered predominantly through fixed monthly charges at Spire Missouri West, or the RSE at Spire Alabama and Spire Gulf, are subject to regulatory discretion.. In addition, the promulgation of regulations by the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), particularly those regulating the emissions of greenhouse gases, and by the U. S. Department of Energy supporting higher efficiency for residential gas furnaces and other gas appliances or the potential enactment of congressional legislation addressing global warming and climate change may decrease customer usage, encourage fuel switching from gas to other energy forms, and may result in future additional compliance costs that could impact the Utilities' financial conditions and results of operations.. Regional supply/demand fluctuations and changes in national infrastructure, as well as regulatory discretion, may adversely affect the Missouri Utilities' ability to profit from off-system sales and capacity release.. The Missouri Utilities' income from off-system sales and capacity release is subject to fluctuations in market conditions and changing supply and demand conditions in areas the Missouri Utilities hold pipeline capacity rights. Specific factors impacting the Missouri Utilities' income from off-system sales and capacity release include the availability of attractively-priced natural gas supply, availability of pipeline capacity, and market demand. Income from off-system sales and capacity release is shared with customers. The Missouri Utilities are allowed to retain 15% to 25% of the first $6.0 in annual income earned (depending on the level of income earned) and 30% of income exceeding $6.0 annually. In accordance with an agreement approved by the MoPSC, Spire Missouri East deferred, until fiscal 2017, its ability to retain 15% of the first $2.0. Spire Missouri West is allowed to retain 15% to 25% of the first $3.6 in annual income earned (depending on the level of income earned) and 30% of income exceeding $3.6 annually. The Missouri Utilities' ability to retain such income in the future is subject to regulatory discretion in a base rate proceeding.. Catastrophic events may adversely affect the Utilities' facilities and operations.. Catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, tornadoes, hurricanes, tropical storms, terrorist acts, acts of civil unrest, pandemic illnesses or other similar occurrences could adversely affect the Utilities' facilities and operations. The Utilities have emergency planning and training programs in place to respond to events that could cause business interruptions. However, unanticipated events or a combination of events, failure in resources needed to respond to events, or slow or inadequate response to events may have an adverse impact on the Utilities' operations, financial condition, and results of operations. The availability of insurance covering catastrophic events may be limited or may result in higher deductibles, higher premiums, and more restrictive policy terms.. 18. RISKS THAT RELATE TO THE GAS MARKETING SEGMENT. Increased competition, fluctuations in natural gas commodity prices, expiration of supply and transportation arrangements, and infrastructure projects may adversely impact the future profitability of Gas Marketing.. Competition in the marketplace and fluctuations in natural gas commodity prices have a direct impact on the Gas Marketing business. Changing market conditions and prices, the narrowing of regional and seasonal price differentials and limited future price volatility may adversely impact its sales margins or affect its ability to procure gas supplies and/or to serve certain customers, which may reduce sales profitability and/or increase certain credit requirements caused by reductions in netting capability. Also, Gas Marketing profitability may be impacted by the effects of the expiration, in the normal course of business, of certain of its natural gas supply contracts if those contracts cannot be replaced and/or renewed with arrangements with similar terms and pricing. Although the FERC regulates the interstate transportation of natural gas and establishes the general terms and conditions under which Spire Marketing may use interstate gas pipeline capacity to purchase and transport natural gas, it must occasionally renegotiate its transportation agreements with a concentrated group of pipeline companies. Renegotiated terms of new agreements, or increases in FERC-authorized rates of existing agreements, may impact Gas Marketing's future profitability. Profitability may also be adversely impacted if pipeline capacity or future storage capacity secured is not fully utilized and/or its costs are not fully recovered.. Reduced access to credit and/or capital markets may prevent the Gas Marketing business from executing operating strategies.. The Gas Marketing segment relies on its cash flows, ability to effect net settlements with counterparties, parental guarantees, and access to Spire's liquidity resources to satisfy its credit and working capital requirements. Spire Marketing's ability to rely on parental guarantees is dependent upon Spire's financial condition and credit ratings. If Spire's credit ratings were lowered, particularly below investment grade, counterparty acceptance of parental guarantees may diminish, resulting in decreased availability of credit. Additionally, under such circumstances, certain counterparties may require Spire Marketing to provide prepayments or cash deposits, amounts of which would be dependent upon natural gas market conditions. Reduced access to credit or increased credit requirements, which may also be caused by factors such as higher overall natural gas prices, may limit Spire Marketing's ability to enter into certain transactions. In addition, Spire Marketing has concentrations of counterparty credit risk in that a significant portion of its transactions are with (or are associated with) energy producers, utility companies, and pipelines. These concentrations of counterparties have the potential to affect the Company's overall exposure to credit risk, either positively or negatively, in that each of these three groups may be affected similarly by changes in economic, industry, or other conditions. Spire Marketing also has concentrations of credit risk in certain individually significant counterparties. Spire Marketing closely monitors its credit exposure and, although uncollectible amounts have not been significant, increased counterparty defaults are possible and may result in financial losses and/or capital limitations.. Risk management policies, including the use of derivative instruments, may not fully protect Gas Marketing's sales and results of operations from volatility and may result in financial losses.. In the course of its business, Spire Marketing enters into contracts to purchase and sell natural gas at fixed prices and index-based prices. Commodity price risk associated with these contracts has the potential to impact earnings and cash flows. To minimize this risk, Spire Marketing has a risk management policy that provides for daily monitoring of a number of business measures, including fixed price commitments.. Spire Marketing currently manages the commodity price risk associated with fixed-price commitments for the purchase or sale of natural gas by either closely matching the offsetting physical purchase or sale of natural gas at fixed prices or through the use of natural gas futures, options, and swap contracts traded on or cleared through the New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc. (NYMEX) and the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE) to lock in margins. These exchange-traded/cleared contracts may be designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted transactions. However, market conditions and regional price changes may cause ineffective portions of matched positions to result in financial losses. Additionally, to the extent that Spire Marketing's natural gas contracts are classified as trading activities or do not otherwise qualify for the normal purchases or normal sales designation (or the designation is not elected), the contracts are recorded as derivatives at fair value each period. Accordingly, the associated gains and losses are reported directly in earnings and may cause volatility in results of operations. Gains or losses (realized and unrealized) on certain wholesale purchase and sale contracts, consisting of those classified as trading activities, are required to be presented on a net basis (instead of a gross basis) in the statements of consolidated income. Such presentation could result in volatility in the Company's operating revenues.. 19. Spire Marketing's ability to meet its customers' natural gas requirements may be impaired if contracted gas supplies and interstate pipeline services are not available or delivered in a timely manner.. Spire Marketing's ability to deliver natural gas to its customers is contingent upon the ability of natural gas producers, other gas marketers, and interstate pipelines to fulfill delivery obligations to Spire Marketing under firm contracts. If these counterparties fail to perform, they have a contractual obligation to reimburse Spire Marketing for adverse consequences. Spire Marketing will attempt to use such reimbursements to obtain the necessary supplies so that it may fulfill its customer obligations. To the extent that it is unable to obtain the necessary supplies, Spire Marketing's financial position and results of operations may be adversely impacted.. Regulatory and legislative developments pertaining to the energy industry may adversely impact Spire Marketing's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The Spire Marketing business is non-regulated, in that the rates it charges its customers are not established by or subject to approval by any regulatory body with jurisdiction over utilities. However, it is subject to various laws and regulations affecting the energy industry. New regulatory and legislative actions may adversely impact Spire Marketing's results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows by potentially reducing customer growth opportunities and/or increasing the costs of doing business.. For example, Spire Marketing incurs additional costs to comply with new laws and regulations, such as the Dodd-Frank Act amendments to the Commodity Exchange Act, which authorizes the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the CFTC) to regulate futures contracts, options and swaps. These derivative transactions include instruments and bilateral contracts that Spire Marketing uses to hedge or mitigate ongoing commercial risks. The Dodd-Frank Act contemplates that most standardized swaps will be required to be cleared through a registered clearing facility and traded on a designated exchange or swap execution facility, subject to certain exceptions. In addition, the CFTC's rules require companies, include Spire Marketing, to maintain regulatory records of swap transactions, and to report swaps to centralized swap data repositories (SDRs), among other new compliance obligations. Although Spire Marketing may qualify for exceptions to certain of the new CFTC rules, its derivatives counterparties will be subject to new capital, margin, documentation and business conduct requirements imposed as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act. Such new rules will increase transaction costs, and may make it more difficult for Spire Marketing to enter into hedging transactions on favorable terms or affect the number and/or creditworthiness of available swap counterparties. The full impact of the new CFTC requirements will not be known definitively until all of the Dodd-Frank Act regulations have been finalized and fully implemented. Spire Marketing's inability to enter into derivatives instruments or other commercial risk hedging transactions on favorable terms, or at all, could increase operating expenses and expose it to unhedged commercial risks, including potential adverse changes in commodity prices.. In addition, as the regulatory environment for the natural gas industry increases in complexity, the risk of inadvertent noncompliance could also increase. If the business fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, whether existing or new ones, it could be subject to fines, penalties or other enforcement action by the authorities that regulate its operations."
