[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Common units are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business.. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders.. Risks Related to Our Business. We may not have sufficient distributable cash flow following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our General Partner and its affiliates, to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution to our unitholders.. In order to pay the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.4125 per unit per quarter, or $1.65 per unit on an annualized basis, we will require distributable cash flow of $9.4 million per quarter, or $37.5 million per year, based on the number of common units currently outstanding. We may not have sufficient distributable cash flow each quarter to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally dep ends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:. • Competition from other companies that sell refined products, natural gas and/or renewable fuels in the Northeast United States and eastern Canada;. • Competition from other companies in the materials handling business;. • Demand for refined products, natural gas and our materials handling services in the markets we serve;. • Absolute price levels, and volatility of prices, of refined products and natural gas in both the spot and futures markets;. • Seasonal variation in temperature, which affects demand for natural gas and refined products such as heating oil and residual fuel oil (to the extent that it is used for space heating); and. • Prevailing economic conditions.. In addition, the actual amount of distributable cash flow that we distribute will depend on other factors such as:. • The level of maintenance capital expenditures we make;. • The level of operating and general and administrative expenses, including reimbursements to our General Partner and certain of its affiliates for services provided to us;. • Fluctuations or changes in federal, state, local and foreign tax rates, including Canadian income and withholding tax rates;. • The restrictions contained in our credit agreement, including borrowing base limitations and limitations on distributions;. • Our debt service requirements;. • The cost of acquisitions we make, if any;. • Fluctuations in our working capital needs;. • Our ability to access capital markets and to borrow under our credit agreement to make distributions to our unitholders; and. • The amount of cash reserves established by our General Partner, if any.. 10. Table of Contents. Our distributable cash flow depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which may prevent us from making cash distributions during periods when we record net income.. Our distributable cash flow depends primarily on cash flow, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income.. Our business is seasonal and generally our financial results are lower in the second and third quarters of the calendar year, which may result in our need to borrow money in order to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders during these quarters.. Demand for natural gas and some refined products, specifically home heating oil and residual fuel oil for space heating purposes, is generally higher during the period of November through March than during the period of April through October. Therefore, our results of operations for the first and fourth calendar quarters are generally better than for the second and third calendar quarters. For example, over the 36-month period ended December 31, 2017, we generated an average of 63% of our total heating oil and residual fuel oil net sales during the months of November through March in the Northeast United States and Canada. With reduced cash flow during the second and third calendar quarters, we may be required to borrow money in order to pay the minimum quarterly distribution to unitholders. Any restrictions on our ability to borrow could restrict our ability to make quarterly distributions to unitholders.. A significant decrease in demand for refined products, natural gas or our materials handling services in the areas we serve would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to unitholders.. A significant decrease in demand for refined products, natural gas or our materials handling services in the areas that we serve would significantly reduce net sales and, therefore, adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Factors that could lead to a decrease in market demand for refined products or natural gas include:. • Recession or other adverse economic conditions;. • Unseasonably warm temperatures which would negatively impact demand for natural gas and refined products;. • High prices caused by an increase in the market price of refined products or natural gas, higher fuel taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that increase, directly or indirectly, the cost of gasoline or other refined products or natural gas;. • Increased conservation, technological advances and the availability of alternative energy, whether as a result of industry changes, governmental or regulatory actions or otherwise. For example, energy efficiency measures, including the installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces and other heating devices and increased use of fuel efficient motor vehicles, have adversely affected demand for some of our products, particularly home heating oil and residual fuel oil; and,. • Conversion from consumption of heating oil or residual fuel oil to natural gas as such switching and conversions could reduce our sales of heating oil and residual fuel oil.. Factors that could lead to a decrease in demand for our materials handling services include weakness in the housing and construction industries and the economy generally.. Certain of our operating costs and expenses are fixed and do not vary with the volumes we store, distribute and sell. These costs and expenses may not decrease ratably, or at all, should we experience a reduction in volumes stored, distributed and sold. As a result, we may experience declines in operating margin if our volumes decrease.. 11. Table of Contents. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to unitholders are influenced by changes in demand for, and therefore indirectly by changes in the prices of, refined products and natural gas, which could adversely affect our profit margins, our customers' and suppliers' financial condition, contract performance, trade credit and the amount and cost of borrowing under our credit agreement.. Financial and operating results from our purchasing, storing, terminalling and selling operations are influenced by price volatility in the markets for refined products and natural gas. When prices for refined products and natural gas rise, some of our customers may have insufficient credit to purchase supply from us at their historical purchase volumes, and their customers, in turn, may adopt conservation measures which reduce consumption, thereby reducing demand for product. Furthermore, when prices increase rapidly and dramatically, we may be unable to promptly pass our additional costs to our customers, resulting in lower margins for a period of time before margins expand to cover the incremental costs. Significant increases in the costs of refined products can materially increase our costs to carry inventory. We use the working capital facility in our credit agreement, which limits the amounts that we can borrow, as the primary source of financing for our working capital requirements. Lastly, higher prices for refined products or natural gas may (1) diminish our access to trade credit support or cause it to become more expensive and (2) decrease the amount of borrowings available for working capital as a result of total available commitments, borrowing base limitations and advance rates thereunder.. In addition, when prices for refined products or natural gas decline, the likelihood of nonperformance by our customers on forward contracts increases as they and/or their customers may attempt to not perform under their contracts and instead purchase refined products or natural gas at the then lower spot or retail market price.. Restrictions in our credit agreement could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to unitholders as well as the value of our common units.. We are dependent upon the earnings and cash flow generated by operations in order to meet our debt service obligations and to allow us to make cash distributions to unitholders. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit agreement and any future financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue business, which may, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to unitholders. For example, our credit agreement restricts our ability to, among other things:. • Make cash distributions;. • Incur indebtedness;. • Create liens;. • Make investments;. • Engage in transactions with affiliates;. • Make any material change to the nature of our business;. • Dispose of assets; and. • Merge with another company or sell all or substantially all of our assets.. Furthermore, our credit agreement contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. The provisions of the credit agreement may affect our ability to obtain future financing for and pursue attractive business opportunities and maintain flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of the credit agreement could result in an event of default which could enable our lenders, subject to the terms and conditions of our credit agreement, to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay the accelerated amounts, our lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such debt. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, defaults under our other debt instruments, if any, may be triggered and our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and the holders of our units could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. See Item 7 - \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.\". 12. Table of Contents. Debt we incur in the future may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities.. Our future level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following:. • Our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes may be impaired, or such financing may not be available on favorable terms;. • Our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make required debt service payments;. • We may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and. • Our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited.. Our ability to service debt will depend upon, among other things, future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If operating results are not sufficient to maintain our indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying business, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or issuing equity. We may not be able to affect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all.. Changes in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our operating results.. Because we are a U.S. dollar reporting company and also conduct a portion of our Canadian operations in Canadian dollars, we are exposed to currency fluctuations and exchange rate risks that may adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of our earnings, cash flow and partners' capital under applicable accounting rules.. Warmer weather conditions during winter could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to unitholders.. Weather conditions during winter have an impact on the demand for heating oil, residual fuel oil and natural gas. Because we supply distributors whose customers depend on heating oil, residual fuel oil and natural gas during the winter, warmer-than-normal temperatures during the first and fourth calendar quarters in one or more regions in which we operate can decrease the total volume we sell and the adjusted gross margin realized on those sales and, consequently, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to unitholders.. Our risk management policies, processes and procedures cannot eliminate all commodity price risk or basis risk, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to unitholders. In addition, any noncompliance with our risk management policies, processes and procedures could result in significant financial losses.. While our risk management policies, processes and procedures are designed to limit commodity price risk, some degree of exposure to unforeseen fluctuations in market conditions remains. For example, we change our hedged position daily in response to movements in our inventory. If we overestimate or underestimate sales from inventory, we may be unhedged for the amount of the overestimate or underestimate.. In general, basis risk describes the inherent market price risk created when a commodity of certain grade or location is purchased, sold or exchanged as compared to a purchase, sale or exchange of a like commodity at a different time or place. Basis may reflect price differentiation associated with different time periods, qualities or grades, or locations and is typically calculated based on the price difference between the cash or spot price of a commodity and the prompt month futures or swaps contract price of the most comparable commodity. For example, if NYMEX heating oil, which is based on New York Harbor delivery, was used to hedge our commodity risk for heating oil purchases, we could have location basis risk if the deliveries were made in a different location such as in Boston. An example of quality or grade basis risk would be the use of diesel fuel contracts to hedge heating oil. The potential exposure from basis risk is in addition to any impact that market pricing structure may have on our results. Basis risk cannot be entirely eliminated and basis exposure can adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to unitholders.. We monitor policies, processes and procedures designed to prevent unauthorized trading and to maintain substantial balance between purchases and sales or future delivery obligations. We can provide no assurance, however, that these steps will detect and/or prevent all violations of such risk management policies, processes and procedures, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved.. 13. Table of Contents. We are exposed to risks of loss in the event of nonperformance by our customers, suppliers and counterparties.. We are subject to risk of nonperformance by our customers, suppliers and counterparties. We purchase products from a variety of natural gas and refined product suppliers under term contracts and on the spot market. In times of extreme market demand or during market disruptions due to political events, natural disaster, logistical/delivery issues or otherwise, these suppliers may be unable to satisfy our supply requirements. If any of these events were to occur, we may be required to pay more for product that we purchase on the open market, which could result in financial losses and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to unitholders.. Additionally, some of our customers, suppliers and counterparties may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. A tightening of credit in the financial markets or an increase in interest rates may make it more difficult for our customers, suppliers and counterparties to obtain financing and, depending on the degree to which it occurs, there may be a material increase in the nonpayment or other nonperformance by our customers, suppliers and counterparties. Even if our credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, we may experience financial losses in our dealings with these third parties. A material increase in the nonpayment or other nonperformance by our customers, suppliers and/or counterparties could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to unitholders.. Furthermore, our access to trade credit support could diminish or become more expensive. Our ability to continue to receive sufficient trade credit on commercially acceptable terms could be adversely affected by, among other things, fluctuations in refined product, natural gas and renewable fuel prices or disruptions in the credit markets.. Some of our refined products and natural gas competitors have capital resources many times greater than ours and control greater supplies. Competitors able to supply customers with products and services at a lower price could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to unitholders.. Our competitors include terminal companies, major integrated oil companies and their marketing affiliates and independent marketers of varying size, financial resources and experience. Some of our competitors are substantially larger than us, have capital resources many times greater than ours, control greater supplies of refined products and natural gas than us and/or control substantially greater storage capacity than us. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may lose existing customers or fail to acquire new customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and distributable cash flow. For example, if a competitor attempts to increase market share by reducing prices or offering alternative energy sources, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to unitholders could be adversely affected. We may not be able to compete successfully with such companies.. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in data centers and on our networks. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations. Despite our security measures, information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, disrupt operations and the services we provide to customers, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect business/operating margins, revenues and competitive position.. 14. Table of Contents. A principal focus of our business strategy is to grow and expand our business through acquisitions. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth may be limited and any acquisitions we make may reduce, rather than increase, our cash generated from operations on a per unit basis.. A principal focus of our business strategy is to grow and expand our business through acquisitions. Our ability to grow depends, in part, on our ability to make accretive acquisitions that result in an increase in cash from operations generated per unit. If we are unable to make accretive acquisitions, either because we are (1) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts, (2) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms or (3) outbid by competitors, then our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, such acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in the cash generated from operations per unit.. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things:. • Mistaken assumptions about volumes, cash flows, net sales and costs, including synergies;. • An inability to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire;. • An inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our newly acquired assets;. • The assumption of unknown liabilities;. • Limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller;. • Mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt used to finance an acquisition;. • The diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns;. • Unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; and. • Customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses.. A portion of our net sales is generated under contracts that must be renegotiated or replaced periodically. If we are unable to successfully renegotiate or replace these contracts, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to unitholders could be adversely affected.. Most of our contracts with refined products customers are for a single season or on a spot basis, while most of our contracts with natural gas customers are for a term of one year or less. As these contracts and our materials handling contracts expire from time to time, they must be renegotiated or replaced. We may be unable to renegotiate or replace these contracts when they expire, and the terms of any renegotiated contracts may not be as favorable as the contracts they replace. Whether these contracts are successfully renegotiated or replaced is often subject to factors beyond our control. Such factors include fluctuations in refined product and natural gas prices, counterparty ability to pay for or accept the contracted volumes and a competitive marketplace for the services we offer. While our materials handling contracts are generally long-term, they are also subject to periodic renegotiation or replacement. If we cannot successfully renegotiate or replace any of our contracts, or if we renegotiate or replace them on less favorable terms, net sales and margins from these contracts could decline and our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to unitholders could be adversely affected.. Due to our lack of geographic diversification, adverse developments in the terminals we use or in our operating areas would adversely affect results of operations and distributable cash flow.. We rely primarily on sales generated from products distributed from the terminals we own, control or operate to which we have access. Furthermore, our operations are largely located in the Northeast United States and eastern Canada.. Due to our lack of geographic diversification, an adverse development in the businesses or areas in which we operate, including adverse developments due to catastrophic events, weather or decreases in demand for refined products or materials handling services, could have a significantly greater impact on our results of operations and distributable cash flow than if we operated in more diverse locations.. 15. Table of Contents. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage.. We are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business. Our operations are subject to many operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions inherent in our business, including:. • Damage to storage facilities and other assets caused by tornadoes, hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, fires, explosions, extreme weather conditions and other natural disasters;. • Acts or threats of terrorism;. • Unanticipated equipment and mechanical failures at our facilities;. • Disruptions in supply infrastructure or logistics and other events beyond our control;. • Operator error; and. • Environmental pollution or other environmental issues.. If any of these events were to occur, we could incur substantial losses because of personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, and pollution or other environmental damage resulting in curtailment or suspension of related operations.. We may be unable to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we believe to be appropriate for our business at reasonable rates or at all. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies could increase or escalate further. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Certain types of risks, such as fines and penalties, or remediation or damages claims from environmental pollution, are either not covered by insurance or applicable insurance may be unavailable for particular claims based on exclusions or limitations in the policies. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to unitholders.. Our terminalling and materials handling operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and operational safety that require us to incur substantial costs and that may become more stringent over time.. The risk of substantial environmental costs and liabilities is inherent in terminalling and materials handling operations, and we may incur substantial environmental costs and liabilities. In particular, our terminalling operations involve the receipt, storage and redelivery of refined products and are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations regulating product quality specifications and other environmental matters including the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, operational safety and related matters.. Compliance with these laws and regulations increases our overall cost of business, including our capital costs to maintain and upgrade equipment and facilities. Further, we may incur increased costs because of stricter pollution control requirements or liabilities resulting from noncompliance with required operating or other regulatory permits.  Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations.. We utilize a number of terminals that are owned and operated by third parties who are also subject to these stringent federal, state and local environmental laws in their operations. Compliance with these requirements could increase the cost of doing business with these facilities and there can be no assurances as to the timing and type of such changes or what the ultimate costs might be.  If such third parties fail to comply with environmental laws, they could be shut down, requiring us to incur costs to use alternative facilities.  Moreover, the failure to comply with these requirements can expose our operations to fines, penalties, permit revocation and injunctive relief, including limits or prohibitions on some or all of our operations.. The trend in environmental regulation has been to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the environment over time. As a result, there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. We try to anticipate future regulatory requirements that might be imposed and plan accordingly to remain in compliance with changing environmental laws and regulations and minimize the costs of such compliance.. 16. Table of Contents. We do not believe that compliance with federal, state or local environmental laws and regulations will have a material adverse effect on our financial position. We can provide no assurance, however, that future events, such as changes in existing laws (including changes in the interpretation of existing laws), the promulgation of new laws, or the development or discovery of new facts or conditions will not cause us to incur significant costs or have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. The risks of spills and releases and the associated liabilities for investigation, remediation and third-party claims, if any, are inherent in terminalling operations, and the liabilities that we incur may be substantial.. Our operation of refined products terminals and storage facilities as well as our transportation and logistics activities are inherently subject to the risks of spills, discharges or other inadvertent releases of petroleum or other hazardous substances. If any of these events have previously occurred or occur in the future, whether in connection with any of our storage facilities or terminals, any other facility to which we send or have sent wastes or by-products for treatment or disposal or on any property which we own or have owned, we could be liable for all costs, jointly and severally, and administrative, civil and criminal penalties associated with the investigation and remediation of such facilities under federal, state and local environmental laws or the common law. We may also be held liable for damages to natural resources, personal injury or property damage claims from third parties, including the owners of properties located near our terminals and those with whom we do business, alleging contamination from spills or releases from our facilities or operations. Even if we are insured against certain or all of such risks, we may be responsible for all such costs to the extent our insurers or indemnitors do not fulfill their obligations to us. The payment of such costs or penalties could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to unitholders.. Increased regulation related to climate change and greenhouse gas (GHG) effects could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for refined products as a fuel source, which could in turn reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to unitholders.. Climate change, including the impact of global warming, creates physical and financial risk.  Some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHG in the earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events. If any of those effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations.. Additionally, we may become subject to legislation and regulation regarding climate change and compliance with any new rules could be difficult and costly.  Concerned parties, such as legislators and regulators, shareholders and non-governmental organizations, as well as companies in many business sectors, are considering ways to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Foreign, federal, state and local regulatory and legislative bodies have proposed various legislative and regulatory measures relating to climate change, regulating GHG emissions and energy policies.  If such legislation is enacted, we could incur increased energy, environmental and other costs and capital expenditures to comply with regulations and limitations.  Due to the uncertainty in the regulatory and legislative processes, as well as the scope of such requirements and initiatives, we cannot currently determine the effect such legislation and regulation may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to unitholders. Additionally, we could face increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change and the alleged impact of our operations on climate change.. With regard to GHG emissions, on December 15, 2009, the Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, published its findings on emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases and has begun to regulate greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to the Clean Air Act. Many states and regions have adopted GHG initiatives and it is possible that U.S. federal legislation could be adopted in the future to restrict GHG emissions.  As a result, domestic efforts to curb GHG emissions continue to be led by the EPA GHG regulations and the efforts of states. For example, in May 2016 the EPA finalized rules that established emissions standards for methane and volatile organic compounds (\"VOCs\") from new and modified oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing and transmission facilities as part of the Obama Administration's efforts to reduce methane emissions from the oil and natural gas sector.  However, in June 2017, the EPA published a proposed rule to stay certain portions of the 2016 standards for two years and reconsider the entirety of the 2016 standards. The EPA has not yet published a final rule issuing the stay, and, as a result, substantial uncertainty exists with respect to implementation of the. methane rule. The EPA also took the first steps toward regulating existing oil and gas operations by issuing an Information Collection Request seeking a broad range of information, including the types of technologies that could be used to reduce emissions from existing sources and their associated costs; however; the EPA rescinded this request in March 2017. The EPA's new rules are not directly applicable to us, however, to the extent that our operations become subject to or affected by the EPA's GHG regulations, we may face increased capital and operating costs associated with new or expanded facilities.. 17. Table of Contents. Kildair is subject to both Canadian federal and Quebec provincial environmental regulations that require the purchase of emission allowances, credits and/or compliance units needed to cover emissions attributable to the combustion of the fossil fuels they sell for consumption. To comply with these laws and regulations, Kildair must incur costs to purchase allowances, credits and compliance units that allow Kildair to continue operations at their current or increased levels. Increased costs may result in increased prices for Kildair's products or decreased profitability. Increased product price could result in a reduction of demand for Kildair's product and therefore reduce our revenues. Additional risks include the inability to acquire the required amount of emission allowances, credits or compliance units to offset emissions which would subject Kildair to various fines.. In August 2015, the EPA issued its final Clean Power Plan (\"CPP\") rules that establish carbon pollution standards for power plants. Though the CPP does not apply to our operations, it sets a national carbon pollution standard that is projected to cut emissions produced by United States power plants. Judicial challenges led the U.S. Supreme Court to grant a stay of the implementation of the CPP in 2016. By its terms, this stay will remain in effect throughout the pendency of the appeals process. The Supreme Court's stay applies only to the EPA's regulations for CO2 emissions from existing power plants and will not affect the EPA's standards for new power plants.  It is not yet clear how either the Circuit Court or the Supreme Court will rule on the legality of the CPP. Additionally, in October 2017 the EPA proposed to repeal the CPP, although the final outcome of this action and the pending litigation regarding the CPP is uncertain at this time.  In connection with the proposed repeal, the EPA issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (\"ANPRM\") in December 2017 regarding emission guidelines to limit GHG emissions from existing electricity utility generating units. The ANPRM seeks comment regarding what the EPA should include in a potential new, existing-source regulation under the Clean Air Act of GHG emissions from electric utility generating units that it may propose. Were similar requirements to be imposed on the petroleum sector, it could add to our costs of operations and restrict the volumes we transport, which could have adverse effects on our business.  Such increased costs could result in reduced demand for refined products and some customers switching to alternative sources of fuel which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders.. Overall, there has been a trend towards increased regulation of GHGs and carbon pollution, both domestically and internationally, to limit emissions.  Future efforts to limit emissions associated with transportation fuels and heating fuels could reduce the market for, or pricing of, our products, and thus adversely impact our business.. Additionally, activists concerned about the potential effects of climate change have recently directed their attention at sources of funding for fossil-fuel energy companies, which has resulted in certain financial institutions, funds and other sources of capital restricting or eliminating their investment in oil and natural gas activities. Ultimately, this could make it more difficult to secure funding for energy infrastructure projects, such as our terminal facilities. Notwithstanding potential risks related to climate change, the International Energy Agency estimates that global energy demand will continue to rise and will not peak until after 2040 and that oil and gas will continue to represent a substantial percentage of global energy use over that time.. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern the product quality specifications of the refined products we purchase, store, transport and sell.. Various federal, state and local government agencies have the authority to prescribe specific product quality specifications to the sale of commodities. Changes in product quality specifications, such as reduced sulfur content in refined products, or other more stringent requirements for fuels, could reduce our ability to procure product and require us to incur additional handling costs and capital expenditures. If we are unable to procure product or recover these costs through increased sales, we may not be able to meet our financial obligations.. We depend on unionized labor for our operations in Bronx, Lawrence, Mt. Vernon, and Albany, New York; Providence, Rhode Island; and Sorel-Tracy Quebec, Canada. Work stoppages or labor disturbances at these facilities could disrupt our business.. Work stoppages or labor disturbances by our unionized labor force could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and distributable cash flow. In addition, employees who are not currently represented by labor unions may seek representation in the future, and renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements may result in agreements with terms that are less favorable to us than our current agreements.. 18. Table of Contents. We rely on our information technology systems to manage numerous aspects of our business, and a disruption of these systems could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to unitholders.. We depend on our information technology, or IT, systems to manage numerous aspects of our business and to provide analytical information to management. Our IT systems are an essential component of our business and growth strategies, and a serious disruption to our IT systems could limit our ability to manage and operate our business efficiently. These systems are vulnerable to, among other things, damage and interruption from power loss or natural disasters, computer system and network failures, loss of telecommunication services, physical and electronic loss of data, security breaches and computer viruses. We employ back-up IT facilities and have disaster recovery plans; however, these safeguards may not entirely prevent delays or other complications that could arise from an IT systems failure, a natural disaster or a security breach. Significant failure or interruption in our IT systems could cause our business and competitive position to suffer and damage our reputation, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly distributions to  unitholders.. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us. It is our business strategy to distribute in increasing amounts our distributable cash flow, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions.. We expect that we will distribute in increasing amounts our distributable cash flow to our unitholders and will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we distribute a significant portion of our distributable cash flow, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in the partnership agreement or credit agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may adversely impact the cash that we have available to distribute to unitholders.. Axel Johnson indirectly controls our General Partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Our General Partner and its affiliates, including Axel Johnson, may have conflicts of interest with us and have limited duties to us and our common unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our common unitholders.. As of March 6, 2018, Axel Johnson, through its ownership of Sprague Holdings, indirectly owns a 54% limited partner interest in us and indirectly owns and controls our General Partner. Although our General Partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in good faith, the directors and officers of our General Partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our General Partner in a manner that is beneficial to its owner, Sprague Holdings, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Axel Johnson. Furthermore, certain directors and officers of our General Partner are directors and/or officers of affiliates of our General Partner. Conflicts of interest may arise between our General Partner and its affiliates, including Axel Johnson, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts, our General Partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates, including Axel Johnson, over the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations:. • Our General Partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as its affiliates, including Axel Johnson, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its duty to our unitholders.. • Affiliates of our General Partner, including Axel Johnson and Sprague Holdings, may engage in competition with us.. • Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Axel Johnson or Sprague Holdings to pursue a business strategy that favors us. Axel Johnson's directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interests of the stockholder's of Axel Johnson.. • Some officers of our General Partner who provide services to us devote time to affiliates of our General Partner.. 19. Table of Contents. • Our partnership agreement limits the liability of and reduces the duties owed by our General Partner to us and our common unitholders, and also restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. • Except in limited circumstances, our General Partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval.. • Our General Partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and the creation, reductions or increases of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders and to the holders of the incentive distribution rights.. • Our General Partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces distributable cash flow. Such determination can affect the amount of distributable cash flow available to the holders of our common units and to the holders of the incentive distribution rights. Our partnership agreement does not limit the amount of maintenance capital expenditures that our General Partner can cause us to make.. • Our partnership agreement and the services agreement allow our General Partner to determine, in good faith, the expenses that are allocable to us. Our partnership agreement and the services agreement do not limit the amount of expenses for which our General Partner and its affiliates may be reimbursed. These expenses include salary, incentive compensation and other amounts paid to persons, including affiliates of our General Partner, who perform services for us or on our behalf.. • Our General Partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, including incentive distributions.. • Our partnership agreement permits us to distribute up to $25.0 million as distributable cash flow, even if it is generated from sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus, and this cash may be used to fund the incentive distributions.. • Our partnership agreement does not restrict our General Partner from entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of its affiliates on our behalf.. • Our General Partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations.. • Our General Partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of all outstanding common units.. • Our General Partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our General Partner and its affiliates.. • Our General Partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us.. • Sprague Holdings, or any transferee holding a majority of the incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to the incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our General Partner or unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to common unitholders in certain situations.. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our General Partner or any of its affiliates, including their executive officers, directors and owners. Other than as provided in our omnibus agreement, any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our General Partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders.. 20. Table of Contents. Our General Partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations.. Other than under our credit agreement, our General Partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets and not against our General Partner or its assets. Our General Partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our General Partner. Our partnership agreement provides that any action taken by our General Partner to limit its liability is not a breach of our General Partner's duty to act in good faith, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our General Partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of distributable cash flow otherwise available for distribution to unitholders.. Our partnership agreement limits our General Partner's duties to our unitholders.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that modify and reduce the standards to which our General Partner would otherwise be held under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement permits our General Partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our General Partner, or otherwise free of fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders. This entitles our General Partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Examples of decisions that our General Partner may make in its individual capacity include:. • How to allocate business opportunities among us and its other affiliates;. • Whether to exercise its limited call right;. • How to exercise its voting rights with respect to any units it owns;. • Whether to exercise its registration rights with respect to any units it owns; and. • Whether to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement.. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder is treated as having consented to the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above.. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement:. • Provides that whenever our General Partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our General Partner, our General Partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith and will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity;. • Provides that a determination, other action or failure to act by our General Partner, the board of directors of our General Partner or any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee) will be deemed to be in good faith unless our General Partner, the board of directors of our General Partner or any committee thereof believed such determination, other action or failure to act was adverse to the interests of the partnership;. • Provides that our General Partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a General Partner so long as it acted in good faith;. • Provides that our General Partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our General Partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and. 21. Table of Contents. • Provides that our General Partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement or its duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is:. (1) Approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our General Partner, although our General Partner is not obligated to seek such approval; or. (2) Approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our General Partner and its affiliates.. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our General Partner must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the conflicts committee then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, taking any action or failing to act, the board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption.. Cost reimbursements and fees due to our General Partner and its affiliates for services provided to us or on our behalf, which may be determined in our General Partner's sole discretion, may be substantial and will reduce our distributable cash flow.. Under our partnership agreement, prior to making any distribution on the common units, our General Partner and its affiliates shall be reimbursed for all costs and expenses that they incur on our behalf for managing and controlling our business and operations. Pursuant to the terms of the services agreement, our General Partner will agree to provide certain general and administrative services and operational services to us, and we will agree to reimburse our General Partner and its affiliates for all costs and expenses incurred in connection with providing such services to us, including salary, incentive compensation, insurance premiums and other amounts allocable to the employees and directors of our General Partner or its affiliates that perform services on our behalf. Our General Partner and its affiliates also may provide us other services for which we may be charged fees as determined by our General Partner. Our partnership agreement and the services agreement do not limit the amount of expenses for which our General Partner and its affiliates may be reimbursed. Payments to our General Partner and its affiliates may be substantial and will reduce the amount of distributable cash flow.. Unitholders have limited voting rights and, even if they are dissatisfied, cannot remove our General Partner without its consent.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders did not elect our General Partner or the board of directors of our General Partner and will have no right to elect our General Partner or the board of directors of our General Partner on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our General Partner is chosen by Sprague Holdings, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Axel Johnson and the sole member of our General Partner. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our General Partner, they will have little ability to remove our General Partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which our common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.. The unitholders will be unable to remove our General Partner without its consent because our General Partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding common units is required to remove our General Partner. As of March 6, 2018, Sprague Holdings and its affiliates owned 54% of our common units.. Furthermore, unitholders' voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our General Partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units resulting in ownership of at or in excess of such levels with the prior approval of the board of directors of our General Partner, cannot vote on any matter.. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management.. 22. Table of Contents. Our General Partner interest or the control of our General Partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our General Partner may transfer its General Partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in the partnership agreement on the ability of Sprague Holdings to transfer its membership interest in our General Partner to a third party. The new members of our General Partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our General Partner with their own choices and to control the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers.. The incentive distribution rights held by Sprague Holdings may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Sprague Holdings may transfer the incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If Sprague Holdings transfers the incentive distribution rights to a third party but retains its ownership interest in our General Partner, our General Partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if Sprague Holdings had retained ownership of the incentive distribution rights. For example, a transfer of incentive distribution rights by Sprague Holdings could reduce the likelihood of Axel Johnson accepting offers made by us relating to assets owned by it, as Axel Johnson would have less of an economic incentive to grow our business, which in turn may impact our ability to grow our asset base.. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholder interests.. At any time, we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders. Further, neither the partnership agreement nor the credit agreement prohibits the issuance of equity securities that may effectively rank senior to our common units. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:. • Our unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;. • The amount of distributable cash flow on each unit may decrease;. • The ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase;. • The relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and. • The market price of our common units may decline.. Sprague Holdings may sell units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units.. As of March 6, 2018, Sprague Holdings and its affiliates held 12,106,348 common units. We have agreed to provide Sprague Holdings with certain registration rights (which may facilitate the sale by Sprague Holdings of its common units into the public markets). The sale of these units in the public or private markets, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop.. An increase in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units to decline.. Like all equity investments, an investment in our common units is subject to certain risks. In exchange for accepting these risks, investors may expect to receive a higher rate of return than would otherwise be obtainable from lower-risk investments. Accordingly, as interest rates rise, the ability of investors to obtain higher risk-adjusted rates of return on government-backed debt securities may cause a corresponding decline in demand for riskier investments generally, including yield-based equity investments such as publicly traded limited partnership interests. Reduced demand for our common units resulting from investors seeking other more favorable investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline.. Our General Partner's discretion in establishing cash reserves may reduce the amount of distributable cash flow that we distribute.. The partnership agreement permits our General Partner to reduce the amount of distributable cash flow distributed to our unitholders by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party or to provide funds for future distributions to partners.. 23. Table of Contents. Our General Partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to make cash distributions, even where the purpose or effect of the borrowing benefits our General Partner or its affiliates.. In some instances, our General Partner may cause us to borrow funds from its affiliates, including Axel Johnson, or from third parties in order to permit the payment of cash distributions. These borrowings are permitted even if the purpose and effect of the borrowing is to enable us to make incentive distributions.. Our General Partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our General Partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of our common units, our General Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price, including at a price below the then-current market price, and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units. As of March 6, 2018, Sprague Holdings and its affiliates owned 54% of our common units.. Your liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business.. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some jurisdictions. You could be liable for our obligations as if you were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that:. • We were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state's partnership statute; or. • Your right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitutes \"control\" of our business.. A restatement of net income or a reversal or change of estimates affecting net income made after the end of the subordination period but affecting net income during the subordination period will not retroactively affect the conversion of the subordinated units even if we would not have had sufficient distributable cash flow based on such restated or adjusted net income to permit conversion.. All of our outstanding subordinated units converted into common units on a one-for-one basis on February 16, 2017, upon the satisfaction of certain tests involving the calculation of distributable cash flow on a historical basis. Distributable cash flow is calculated based on net income, which is a GAAP measure. If net income for a period during the subordination period is restated after the end of the subordination period or if estimates affecting net income made during the subordination period are reversed or changed after the end of the subordination period, it will not retroactively affect the conversion of subordinated units even if we would not have had sufficient distributable cash flow during the subordination period based on such restated or adjusted net income to permit conversion.. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them.. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, or the Delaware Act, we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Transferees of common units are liable for the obligations of the transferor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the transferee at the time of the transfer and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. 24. Table of Contents. Sprague Holdings, or any transferee holding a majority of the incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to the incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our General Partner or the holders of our common units. This could result in lower distributions to our unitholders.. The holder or holders of a majority of the incentive distribution rights (currently Sprague Holdings) have the right, in their discretion and without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our General Partner or the holders of our common units, at any time when the holders received distributions on their incentive distribution rights at the highest level to which they are entitled (50.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution, and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. Sprague Holdings has the right to transfer the incentive distribution rights at any time, in whole or in part, and any transferee holding a majority of the incentive distribution rights shall have the same rights as Sprague Holdings relative to resetting target distributions.. In the event of a reset of target distribution levels, the holders of the incentive distribution rights will be entitled to receive a number of common units equal to the number of common units that would have entitled the holders to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. We anticipate that Sprague Holdings would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. It is possible, however, that Sprague Holdings or a transferee could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. This risk could be elevated if our incentive distribution rights have been transferred to a third party. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units in connection with resetting the target distribution levels.. The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) does not require a publicly traded limited partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements.. As a limited partnership, we are not required to have a majority of independent directors on our General Partner's board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee, as is required for other NYSE-listed entities. Accordingly, unitholders do not have the same protections afforded to certain entities, including most corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") were to treat us as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or we become subject to entity level taxation for state tax purposes, our cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes or differing interpretations, possibly applied on a retroactive basis.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A publicly traded partnership such as us may be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless it satisfies a \"qualifying income\" requirement. Based upon our current operations, we believe we satisfy the qualifying income requirement. However, no ruling has been or will be requested regarding our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, and would likely pay additional state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distributions to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. 25. Table of Contents. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units, may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. From. time to time, members of Congress have proposed and considered substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that would affect publicly traded partnerships. Although there is no current legislative proposal, a prior legislative proposal would have eliminated the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. With regard to qualifying income, on January 24, 2017, final regulations concerning which activities give rise to qualifying income within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Code (the \"Final Regulations\") were published in the Federal Register.  The Final Regulations are effective as of January 19, 2017, and apply to taxable years beginning on or after January 19, 2017. We do not believe the Final Regulations affect our ability to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws or other applicable tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any similar or future legislative changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. You are urged to consult with your own tax advisor with respect to the status of regulatory or administrative. developments and proposals and their potential effect on your investment in our common units.. In addition to U.S. federal income tax, we are currently subject to entity level taxes and fees in a number of states and such taxes and fees reduce our distributable cash flow. Changes in current state and local laws may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states and local governments. Additionally, unitholders may be subject to other state and local taxes that are imposed by various jurisdictions in which the unitholder resides or in which we conduct business or own property.. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted, or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner, that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for U.S. federal, state, local or non-U.S. income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. Notwithstanding our treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we are subject to certain non-U.S. taxes. If a taxing authority were to successfully assert that we have more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation were enacted that increased the taxes to which we are subject, our distributable cash flow would be further reduced.. A material amount of our business operations and subsidiaries are subject to income, withholding and other taxes in the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which they are organized or from which they receive income, reducing the amount of our distributable cash flow. In computing our tax obligation in these non-U.S. jurisdictions, we are required to take various tax accounting and reporting positions on matters that are not entirely free from doubt and for which we have not received rulings from the governing tax authorities, such as whether withholding taxes will be reduced by the application of certain tax treaties. Upon review of these positions, the applicable authorities may not agree with our positions. A successful challenge by a tax authority could result in additional tax being imposed on us. In addition, changes in our operations or ownership could result in higher than anticipated tax being imposed in jurisdictions in which we are organized or from which we receive income. Any such increases in tax imposed on us would further reduce our distributable cash flow. Although these taxes may be properly characterized as foreign income taxes, unitholders may not be able to credit them against their liability for U.S. federal income taxes on their share of our earnings.. Our unitholders are required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us.. Our unitholders are required to pay any U.S. federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. For example, if we sell assets and use the proceeds to repay existing debt or fund capital expenditures, unitholders may be allocated taxable income and gain resulting from the sale and our cash available for distribution would not increase.  Similarly, taking advantage of opportunities to reduce our existing debt, such as debt exchanges, debt repurchases, or modifications of our existing debt could result in \"cancellation of indebtedness income\" being allocated to our unitholders as taxable income without any increase in our cash available for distribution. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income.. 26. Table of Contents. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than our unitholders expect.. If a unitholder sells common units, such unitholder will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the unitholder's tax basis in those units. Because distributions in excess of the unitholder's allocable share of our net taxable income decrease its tax basis in its common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units being sold will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if it sells such units at a price greater than its tax basis in those units, even if the price received is less than the unitholder's original cost. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if a unitholder sells units, such unitholder may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale.. A substantial portion of the amount realized from the sale of your units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income to you due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture.  Thus, you may recognize both ordinary income and capital loss from the sale of your units if the amount realized on a sale of your units is less than your adjusted basis in the units.  Net capital loss may only offset capital gains and, in the case of individuals, up to $3,000 of ordinary income per year.  In the taxable period in which you sell your units, you may recognize ordinary income from our allocations of income and gain to you prior to the sale and from recapture items that generally cannot be offset by any capital loss recognized upon the sale of units.. Unitholders may be subject to limitation on their ability to deduct interest expense incurred by us.. In general, we are entitled to a deduction for interest paid or accrued on indebtedness properly allocable to our trade or. business during our taxable year. However, under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, for taxable years beginning after December 31,. 2017, our deduction for \"business interest\" is limited to the sum of our business interest income and 30% of our \"adjusted. taxable income.\" For the purposes of this limitation, our adjusted taxable income is computed without regard to any business. interest expense or business interest income, and in the case of taxable years beginning before January 1, 2022, any deduction. allowable for depreciation, amortization, or depletion.. Tax-exempt entities face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in our common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (\"IRAs\"), raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from U.S. federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Further, with respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, a tax-exempt entity with more than one unrelated trade or business (including by attribution from investment in a partnership such as ours that is engaged in one or more unrelated trades or businesses) is required to compute the unrelated business taxable income of such tax-exempt entity separately with respect to each such trade or business (including for purposes of determining any net operating loss deduction). As a result, for years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may not be possible for tax-exempt entities to utilize losses from an investment in our partnership to offset unrelated business taxable income from another unrelated trade or business and vice versa. If you are a tax exempt entity, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units.. Non-U.S. unitholders will be subject to U.S. taxes and withholding with respect to their income and gain from owning. our units.. Non-U.S. unitholders are generally taxed and subject to income tax filing requirements by the United States on income. effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business (\"effectively connected income\"). Income allocated to our unitholders and. any gain from the sale of our units will generally be considered to be \"effectively connected\" with a U.S. trade or business. As. a result, distributions to a non-U.S. unitholder will be subject to withholding at the highest applicable effective tax rate and a. non-U.S. unitholder who sells or otherwise disposes of a unit will also be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the gain. realized from the sale or disposition of that unit.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act imposes a withholding obligation of 10% of the amount realized upon a non-U.S. unitholder's sale or exchange of an interest in a partnership that is engaged in a U.S. trade or business. However, due to challenges of administering a withholding obligation applicable to open market trading and other complications, the IRS has temporarily. suspended the application of this withholding rule to open market transfers of interest in publicly traded partnerships pending. promulgation of regulations or other guidance that resolves the challenges. It is not clear if or when such regulations or other. guidance will be issued. If you are a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax adviser before investing in our common. units.. 27. Table of Contents. If a tax authority contests the tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely affected and the cost of any such contest would reduce our distributable cash flow.. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax. purposes. Tax authorities may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with a tax authority may materially and adversely affect the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. Our costs of any contest with a tax authority will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our General Partner because the costs will reduce our distributable cash flow.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, it (and. some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit. adjustments directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially. reduced and our current and former unitholders may be required to indemnify us for any taxes (including any applicable. penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments that were paid on such unitholders' behalf.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments directly from us. To the extent possible under the new rules, our General Partner may elect to either pay the taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly to the IRS or, if we are eligible, issue a revised information statement to each unitholder and former unitholder with respect to an audited and adjusted return. Although our General Partner may elect to have our unitholders and former unitholders take such audit adjustment into account and pay any resulting taxes (including applicable penalties or interest) in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, there can be no assurance that such election will be practical, permissible or effective in all circumstances. As a result, our current unitholders may bear some or all of the tax liability resulting from such audit adjustment, even if such unitholders did not own units in us during the tax year under audit. If, as a result of any such audit adjustment, we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced and our current and former unitholders may be required to indemnify us for any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments that were paid on such unitholders' behalf. These rules are not applicable for tax years beginning on or prior to December 31, 2017.. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the common units actually purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.. Due to a number of factors including our inability to match transferors and transferees of common units, we have adopted certain methods for allocating depreciation and amortization that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to the use of these methods could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from any sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns.. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month (the \"Allocation Date\"), instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. Similarly, we generally allocate certain deductions for depreciation of capital additions, gain or loss realized on a sale or other disposition of our assets and, in the discretion of our General Partner, any other extraordinary item of income, gain, loss or deduction based upon ownership on the Allocation Date. Treasury Regulations allow a similar monthly simplifying convention, but such regulations do not specifically authorize all aspects of our proration method. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss, and deduction among our unitholders.. 28. Table of Contents. A unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g. a loan to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of common units) may be considered to have disposed of those common units. If so, such unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and could recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because there are no specific rules governing the U.S. federal income tax consequences of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan to the short seller may be considered to have disposed of the loaned units. In that case, such unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and the unitholder may be required to recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a securities loan are urged to consult a tax advisor to determine whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their common units.. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining a unitholder's allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. The IRS may challenge these methodologies or the resulting allocations, which could adversely affect the value of our common units.. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, we must routinely determine the fair market value of our assets. Although we may, from time to time, consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair market value estimates using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our assets. The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the timing or amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain recognized from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. Our unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and income tax return filing requirements in jurisdictions where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units.. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We conduct business and own property in numerous states, in the United States most of which impose a personal income tax as well as an income tax on corporations and other entities. We may own property or conduct business in other U.S. states or non-U.S. countries that impose a personal income tax in the future. It is the unitholder's responsibility to file all U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. tax returns."
