[1] "ITEM 1A.   Risk Factors. Because we intend to continue to emphasize commercial real estate loan originations, our credit risk could increase and continued weakness in the local real estate market or economy could adversely affect our earnings.. We intend to continue our emphasis on originating commercial real estate loans. Commercial real estate loans totaled $301.0 million, or 40.1% of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2017. Commercial real estate loans generally have more risk than the one- to four-family residential real estate loans. Because the repayment of commercial real estate loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower's properties or related businesses, repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the local real estate market or economy. Commercial real estate loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of related borrowers. Any continued weakness or downturn in the real estate market or the local economy could adversely affect the value of properties securing the loan or the revenues from the borrower's business, thereby increasing the risk of nonperforming loans. As our commercial real estate portfolio increases, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans may also increase.. Standard may fail to realize the cost savings it expects to achieve from the merger.. Standard has incurred significant costs acquiring Allegheny Valley and combining the operations of the two companies. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred as the post-merger integration continues.. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on Standard's ability to realize the estimated cost savings from combining the businesses of Standard and Allegheny. It is possible that the potential cost savings could be more difficult to achieve than Standard anticipates. Standard's cost savings estimates also depend on its ability to combine the businesses of Standard and Allegheny in a manner that permits those cost savings to be realized. If Standard's estimates are incorrect or it is unable to combine the two companies successfully, the anticipated cost savings may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected.. The post-merger integration may distract management from their other responsibilities.. The post-merger integration could cause management to focus their time and energies on matters related to the integration that otherwise would be directed to the Company's business and operations. Any such distraction on the part of management, if significant, could affect management's ability to service existing business and develop new business and adversely affect the combined company's business and earnings.. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease.. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income.. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 16. TABLE OF CONTENTS. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") has adopted Accounting Standard Update (\"ASU\") 2016-13, which will be effective in the first quarter of 2020. This standard, often referred to as \"CECL\" (reflecting a current expected credit loss model), will require companies to recognize an allowance for credit losses based on estimates of losses expected to be realized over the contractual lives of the loans. Under current U.S. GAAP, companies generally recognize credit losses only when it is probable that a loss has been incurred as of the balance sheet date. This new standard will require us to collect and review increased types and amounts of data for us to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses, and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or expenses may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are actively working through the provisions of the Update.. Future changes in interest rates could reduce our profits.. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings.. The majority of our portfolio loans have fixed interest rates. Additionally, many of our securities investments have fixed interest rates. Like many financial institutions, our focus on deposit accounts as a source of funds, which have no stated maturity date or short contractual maturities, results in our liabilities having a shorter duration than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets, such as loans and investments, may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities, such as deposits. In a period of declining interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest paid on our liabilities, as borrowers prepay mortgage loans, and mortgage-backed securities and callable investment securities are called or prepaid, thereby requiring us to reinvest these cash flows at lower interest rates.. Changes in interest rates creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities in a declining interest rate environment. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2017, a \"rate shock\" analysis indicated that our net portfolio value (the difference between the present value of our assets and the present value of our liabilities) would decrease by approximately $12.0 million, or 7.69%, if there was an instantaneous 200 basis point increase in market interest rates.. Downturns in the local real estate market or economy could adversely affect our earnings.. A downturn in the real estate market or the local economy could adversely affect the value of properties securing the loan or the revenues from the borrower's business, thereby increasing the risk of nonperforming loans. If the Company is required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, its earnings and shareholders' equity could be adversely affected. The declines in real estate prices in the Company's markets also may result in increases in delinquencies and losses in its loan portfolios. Unexpected decreases in real estate prices coupled with a prolonged economic recovery and elevated levels of unemployment could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in the Company's allowance for loan losses. In that event, the Company's earnings could be adversely affected.. A worsening of economic conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. During the financial crisis, there were dramatic declines in the housing market, where falling real estate values and increasing foreclosures, unemployment, and under-employment negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. Our lending business is tied, in large part, to the housing market and real estate markets in general. A return to these conditions or a general decline in economic conditions could result in more. 17. TABLE OF CONTENTS. limited demand for the construction of new housing, and weakness in home pricing, and could ultimately result in increased delinquencies on our residential real estate loans, commercial real estate loans, commercial business loans, home equity loans and lines of credit and consumer loans. These conditions may also cause a further reduction in loan demand, and increases in our non-performing assets, net charge-offs and provisions for loan losses, as well as adversely affect our liquidity and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the market for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Moreover, declines in the stock market in general, or stock values of financial institutions and their holding companies specifically, could adversely affect our stock performance.. Changes in the valuation of our securities portfolio could adversely affect us.. As of December 31, 2017, our investment securities portfolio, which includes government agency, mortgage-backed securities, municipal obligations, corporate bonds and marketable equity securities totaled $133.2 million, or 13.7% of our total assets. Our securities portfolio may be impacted by fluctuations in market value, potentially reducing earnings. Fluctuations in market value may be caused by changes in market interest rates, lower market prices for securities and limited investor demand. Management evaluates securities for other-than-temporary impairment on a quarterly basis, with more frequent evaluation for selected issues. In analyzing a debt issuer's financial condition, management considers whether the securities are issued by the federal government or its agencies, whether downgrades by bond rating agencies have occurred, industry analysts' reports and, to a lesser extent given the relatively insignificant levels of depreciation in our debt portfolio, spread differentials between the effective rates on instruments in the portfolio compared to risk-free rates. Changes in interest rates can also have an adverse effect on our financial condition, as our available-for-sale securities are reported at their estimated fair value, and therefore are impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. The declines in fair value could result charges to earnings that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels.. Financial reform legislation has increased our costs of operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act has significantly changed the regulation of banks and savings institutions and affects the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The current administration in Washington indicated they have plans for Dodd-Frank reform, however, we cannot predict the extent to how those changes will impact our business, operations or financial condition. However, compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations and policies has already resulted in changes to our business and operations, as well as additional costs, and diverted management's time from other business activities, which adversely affects our financial condition and results of operations.. The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and new capital rules may adversely affect our returns on equity and our ability to pay dividends or repurchase stock.. In July 2013, the FDIC and the other federal bank regulatory agencies revised their leverage and risk-based capital requirements and the method for calculating risk-weighted assets to make them consistent with agreements that were reached by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. Among other things, the rule established a new common equity Tier 1 minimum capital requirement (4.5% of risk-weighted assets), set the leverage ratio at a uniform 4% of total assets, increased the minimum Tier 1 capital to risk-based assets requirement (from 4% to 6% of risk-weighted assets) and assigned a higher risk weight (150%) to certain exposures that are more than 90 days past due or are on nonaccrual status and to certain commercial real estate facilities that finance the acquisition, development or construction of real property. The rule limits a banking organization's capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments to executive officers if the banking organization does not hold a \"capital conservation buffer\" consisting of 2.50% of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets in addition to the amount necessary to meet its minimum risk-based capital requirements. The final rule became effective January 1, 2015. The \"capital conservation buffer\" has been phased in beginning on January 1, 2016. It is currently 1.875% and will be fully phased in at 2.50% on January 1, 2019.. 18. TABLE OF CONTENTS. The application of these more stringent capital requirements could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets.. Government responses to economic conditions may adversely affect our operations, financial condition and earnings.. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Securities, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Federal Reserve Board. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of Standard Bank rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations.. Financial reform legislation has changed the bank regulatory framework, created an independent consumer protection bureau that has assumed the consumer protection responsibilities of the various federal banking agencies, and established more stringent capital standards for banks and bank holding companies. The legislation has also resulted in new regulations affecting the lending, funding, trading and investment activities of banks and bank holding companies. Bank regulatory agencies also have been responding aggressively to concerns and adverse trends identified in examinations. Ongoing uncertainty regarding the effect of new legislation and regulatory actions may adversely affect our operations by restricting our business activities, including our ability to originate or sell loans, modify loan terms, or foreclose on property securing loans. These measures are likely to increase our costs of doing business and may have a significant adverse effect on our lending activities, financial performance and operating flexibility. In addition, these risks could affect the performance and value of our loan and investment securities portfolios, which also would negatively affect our financial performance.. In addition, there have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount distressed borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit an institution's ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. Were proposals such as these, or other proposals limiting our rights as a creditor, to be implemented, we could experience increased credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor.. Standard's ability to pay dividends is subject to limitations.. The merger agreement between Standard and Allegheny Valley contemplated that, unless 75% of the board of directors determines otherwise for the two years following the closing of the merger and 662/3% of the board of directors for the three years thereafter, the combined company will pay a quarterly cash dividend in an amount no less than $0.221 per share for five years after the effective time of the merger, provided that sufficient funds are legally available, and that Standard and Standard Bank remain \"well-capitalized\" in accordance with applicable regulatory guidelines.. Standard's ability to pay dividends depends on its receipt of dividends from its direct and indirect subsidiaries. Standard Bank is the Company's primary source of dividends. As a state chartered bank, Standard Bank is subject to regulatory restrictions on the payment and amounts of dividends under the Pennsylvania Banking Code.. Further, the ability of banking subsidiaries to pay dividends is also subject to their profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. There is no assurance that Standard's subsidiaries will be able to pay the dividends contemplated by the merger agreement or other dividends in the future or that Standard will generate adequate cash flow to pay dividends in the future. Standard's failure to pay dividends on its common stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of its common stock.. 19. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Standard may incur significant costs to ensure compliance with corporate governance and accounting requirements.. Standard expects to incur significant costs associated with its public company reporting requirements, costs associated with applicable corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other rules implemented by the SEC. Standard expects all of these applicable rules and regulations will increase its legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly.. Standard's success will depend upon the ability of management to adapt to the consolidated company structure.. The business success of Standard and Standard Bank depends to a great extent upon the services of their directors and executive officers. Management's ability to operate Standard profitably will require the acquisition of new knowledge and skills. In particular, if Standard expands geographically or expands to provide non-banking services through the acquisition or formation of additional subsidiaries, current management may not have the necessary experience for successful operation in these new areas. There is no guarantee that management would be able to meet these new challenges or that Standard would be able to retain new directors or personnel with the appropriate background and expertise.. Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and profitability.. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefits them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, which could affect our ability to grow and remain profitable on a long-term basis. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. If we must raise interest rates paid on deposits or lower interest rates charged on our loans, our net interest margin and profitability could be adversely affected. For additional information see \"Item 1<U+2009> - <U+2009>Business<U+2009> - <U+2009>Standard Bank<U+2009> - <U+2009>Competition.\". Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our internet banking, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our communications and information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability.. We may be adversely affected by recent changes in U.S. tax laws.. Changes in tax laws contained in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was enacted in December 2017, include a number of provisions that will have an impact on the banking industry, borrowers and the market for single-family residential real estate. Changes include (i) a lower limit on the deductibility of mortgage interest on single-family residential mortgage loans, (ii) the elimination of interest deductions for certain home equity loans, (iii) a limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense and (iv) a limitation on the deductibility of property taxes and state and local income taxes.. The recent changes in the tax laws may have an adverse effect on the market for, and valuation of, residential properties, and on the demand for such loans in the future, and could make it harder for borrowers to make their loan payments. In addition, these recent changes may also have a disproportionate effect on taxpayers in states with high residential home prices and high state and local taxes. If home ownership becomes less attractive, demand for mortgage loans could decrease. The value of the properties. 20. TABLE OF CONTENTS. securing loans in our loan portfolio may be adversely impacted as a result of the changing economics of home ownership, which could require an increase in our provision for loan losses, which would reduce our profitability and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Technological advances impact our business.. The banking industry is undergoing technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to improving customer services, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs provided that they produce economies of scale and deploy technology in a safe and sound manner. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in operations. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements and greater scale of operations to spread the costs of improvement over, creating a competitive advantage. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or successfully market such products and services to a large enough number of customers to cover the up-front costs of implementation and ongoing costs to operate.. Evolving information technologies, the need to mitigate against and react to cyber-security risks and electronic fraud risks require significant resources and notwithstanding our investment in resources, we remain subject to cyber security risks and electronic fraud.. The Company needs to invest in information technology to keep pace with technology changes, and while the Company invests amounts it believes will be adequate, it may fail to invest adequate amounts such that the efficiency of information technology systems fails to meet operational needs. The risk of electronic fraudulent activity within the financial services industry, especially due to cyber attacks (crime committed through or involving the internet (phishing, hacking, denial of service attacks, stealing information, unauthorized intrusions into internal systems or the systems of the Company's third party vendors)) could adversely impact the Company's operations or damage its reputation. The Company's information technology infrastructure and systems may be vulnerable to cyber terrorism, computer viruses, system failures and other intentional or unintentional interference, fraud and other unauthorized attempts to access or interfere with the systems. A breach of our security controls and the occurrence of one or more of these incidents could have a material adverse effect on the Company's reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, any such occurrences could result in regulatory actions (including fines), litigation, unexpected costs and expenses, third-party damages or other loss or liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations or financial condition.. Our stock price may be volatile due to limited trading volume.. Our common stock is quoted on the OTCQX market place. However, the average daily trading volume in Standard AVB Financial Corp.'s common stock has been relatively small. As a result, trades involving a relatively small number of shares may have a significant effect on the market price of the common stock, and it may be difficult for investors to acquire or dispose of large blocks of stock without significantly affecting the market price."
