[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below.  These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face.  Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or other factors not perceived by us to present significant risks to our business at this time also may impair our business and results of operations.  If any of the stated risks actually occur, they could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results.. Risks Related to Our Operations. We depend on a limited number of key customers, and the loss of any such customer, or a significant reduction in purchases by such customer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our five largest individual customers accounted for approximately 70% of our consolidated net sales in 2017 and 2016, and approximately 68% of our consolidated net sales in 2015.  During 2017, O'Reilly Automotive, Inc., Advance Auto Parts, Inc., NAPA Auto Parts, and AutoZone, Inc. accounted for 21%, 17%, 16% and 10% of our consolidated net sales, respectively.  The loss of one or more of these customers or, a significant reduction in purchases of our products from any one of them, could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any consolidation among our key customers, such as Advance Auto's acquisition of CarQuest in 2014, may further exacerbate our customer concentration risk.. Also, we do not typically enter into long-term agreements with any of our customers.  Instead, we enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers, based on their current or projected needs.  We have in the past, and may in the future, lose customers or lose a particular product line of a customer due to the highly competitive conditions in the automotive aftermarket industry, including pricing pressures, consolidation of customers, customer initiatives to buy direct from foreign suppliers or other business considerations.  A decision by any significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to materially decrease the amount of products purchased from us, to change their manner of doing business with us, or to stop doing business with us, including a decision to source products directly from a low cost region such as Asia, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Because our sales are concentrated, and the market in which we operate is very competitive, we are under ongoing pressure from our customers to offer lower prices, extend payment terms, increase marketing allowances and other terms more favorable to these customers.  These customer demands have put continued pressure on our operating margins and profitability, resulted in periodic contract renegotiation to provide more favorable prices and terms to these customers, and significantly increased our working capital needs.. Our industry is highly competitive, and our success depends on our ability to compete with suppliers of automotive aftermarket products, some of which may have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do.. The automotive aftermarket industry is highly competitive, and our success depends on our ability to compete with domestic and international suppliers of automotive aftermarket products. In the Engine Management Segment, our competitors include ACDelco, Delphi Technologies PLC, Denso Corporation, Continental AG, Hitachi, Ltd., Motorcraft, Robert Bosch GmbH, Visteon Corporation, NGK Spark Plug Co., LTD., Dorman Products, Inc. and several privately-owned companies importing products from Asia.   In the Temperature Control Segment, we compete with ACDelco, MAHLE GmbH, Behr Hella Service GmbH, Denso Corporation, Motorcraft, Sanden International, Inc., Continental AG, and several privately-owned companies.  In addition, automobile manufacturers supply many of the replacement parts we sell.. 13. Index. Some of our competitors may have larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do.  These factors may allow our competitors to:.   respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements by devoting greater resources than we can to the development, promotion and sale of automotive aftermarket products and services;.   engage in more extensive research and development;.   sell products at a lower price than we do;.   undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; and.   make more attractive offers to existing and potential customers and strategic partners.. We cannot assure you that our competitors will not develop products or services that are equal or superior to our products or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products or that in the future other companies involved in the automotive aftermarket industry will not expand their operations into product lines produced and sold by us.  We also cannot assure you that additional entrants will not enter the automotive aftermarket industry or that companies in the aftermarket industry will not consolidate.  Any such competitive pressures could cause us to lose market share or could result in significant price decreases and could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations.. There is substantial price competition in our industry, and our success and profitability will depend on our ability to maintain a competitive cost and price structure.. There is substantial price competition in our industry, and our success and profitability will depend on our ability to maintain a competitive cost and price structure.  This is the result of a number of industry trends, including the impact of offshore suppliers in the marketplace (particularly in China) which suppliers do not have the same infrastructure costs as we do, the consolidated purchasing power of large customers, and actions taken by some of our competitors in an effort to ''win over'' new business.  We have in the past reduced prices to remain competitive and may have to do so again in the future.  Price reductions have impacted our sales and profit margins and are expected to do so in the future.  Our future profitability will depend in part upon our ability to respond to changes in product and distribution channel mix, to continue to improve our manufacturing efficiencies, to generate cost reductions, including reductions in the cost of components purchased from outside suppliers, and to maintain a cost structure that will enable us to offer competitive prices.  Our inability to maintain a competitive cost structure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is seasonal and is subject to substantial quarterly fluctuations, which impact our quarterly performance and working capital requirements.. Historically, our operating results have fluctuated by quarter, with the greatest sales occurring in the second and third quarters of the year and with revenues generally being recognized at the time of shipment.  It is in these quarters that demand for our products is typically the highest, specifically in the Temperature Control Segment of our business. In addition to this seasonality, the demand for our Temperature Control products during the second and third quarters of the year may vary significantly with the summer weather and customer inventories.  For example, a cool summer, as we experienced in 2017, may lessen the demand for our Temperature Control products, while a warm summer, as we experienced in 2016, may increase such demand.  As a result of this seasonality and variability in demand of our Temperature Control products, our working capital requirements peak near the end of the second quarter, as the inventory build-up of air conditioning products is converted to sales and payments on the receivables associated with such sales have yet to be received.  During this period, our working capital requirements are typically funded by borrowing from our revolving credit facility.. 14. Index. We may incur material losses and significant costs as a result of warranty-related returns by our customers in excess of anticipated amounts.. Our products are required to meet rigorous standards imposed by our customers and our industry. Many of our products carry a warranty ranging from a 90-day limited warranty to a lifetime limited warranty, which generally covers defects in materials or workmanship, failure to meet industry published specifications and/or the result of installation error. In the event that there are material deficiencies or defects in the design and manufacture of our products and/or installation error, the affected products may be subject to warranty returns and/or product recalls. Although we maintain a comprehensive quality control program, we cannot give any assurance that our products will not suffer from defects or other deficiencies or that we will not experience material warranty returns or product recalls in the future.. We accrue for warranty returns as a percentage of sales, after giving consideration to recent historical returns. While we believe that we make reasonable estimates for warranty returns in accordance with our revenue recognition policies, actual returns may differ from our estimates. We have in the past incurred, and may in the future incur, material losses and significant costs as a result of our customers returning products to us for warranty-related issues in excess of anticipated amounts. Deficiencies or defects in our products in the future may result in warranty returns and product recalls in excess of anticipated amounts and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our profitability may be materially adversely affected as a result of overstock inventory-related returns by our customers in excess of anticipated amounts.. We permit overstock returns of inventory that may be either new or non-defective or non-obsolete but that we believe we can re-sell. Customers are generally limited to returning overstocked inventory according to a specified percentage of their annual purchases from us. In addition, a customer's annual allowance cannot be carried forward to the upcoming year.. We accrue for overstock returns as a percentage of sales, after giving consideration to recent historical returns. While we believe that we make reasonable estimates for overstock returns in accordance with our revenue recognition policies, actual returns may differ from our estimates. To the extent that overstocked returns are materially in excess of our projections, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. We may be materially adversely affected by asbestos claims arising from products sold by our former brake business, as well as by other product liability claims.. In 1986, we acquired a brake business, which we subsequently sold in March 1998. When we originally acquired this brake business, we assumed future liabilities relating to any alleged exposure to asbestos-containing products manufactured by the seller of the acquired brake business. In accordance with the related purchase agreement, we agreed to assume the liabilities for all new claims filed after September 2001.  Our ultimate exposure will depend upon the number of claims filed against us on or after September 2001 and the amounts paid for indemnity and defense of such claims.. Actuarial consultants with experience in assessing asbestos-related liabilities conducted a study to estimate our potential claim liability as of August 31, 2017.  The updated study has estimated an undiscounted liability for settlement payments, excluding legal costs and any potential recovery from insurance carriers, ranging from $35.2 million to $54 million for the period through 2060.  The change from the prior year study was a $4.2 million increase for the low end of the range and a $6.3 million increase for the high end of the range.  The increase in the estimated undiscounted liability from the prior year study at both the low end and high end of the range reflects our actual experience over the prior twelve months, our historical data and certain assumptions with respect to events that may occur in the future.  Based on the information contained in the actuarial study and all other available information considered by us, we have concluded that no amount within the range of settlement payments was more likely than any other and, therefore, in assessing our asbestos liability we compare the low end of the range to our recorded liability to determine if an adjustment is required.  Based upon the results of the August 31, 2017 actuarial study, in September 2017 we increased our asbestos liability to $35.2 million, the low end of the range, and recorded an incremental pre-tax provision of $6 million in earnings (loss) from discontinued operations in the accompanying statement of operations.  Future legal costs, which are expensed as incurred and reported in earnings (loss) from discontinued operations in the accompanying statement of operations, are estimated, according to the updated study, to range from $44.3 million to $79.6 million for the period through 2060.. 15. Index. At December 31, 2017, approximately 1,530 cases were outstanding for which we may be responsible for any related liabilities.  Since inception in September 2001 through December 31, 2017, the amounts paid for settled claims are approximately $23.8 million.  A substantial increase in the number of new claims or increased settlement payments or awards of damages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Given the uncertainties associated with projecting asbestos-related matters into the future and other factors outside our control, we cannot give any assurance that significant increases in the number of claims filed against us will not occur, that asbestos-related damages or settlement awards will not exceed the amount we have in reserve, or that additional provisions will not be required. Management will continue to monitor the circumstances surrounding these potential liabilities in determining whether additional reserves and provisions may be necessary. We plan on performing a similar annual actuarial analysis during the third quarter of each year for the foreseeable future.. In addition to asbestos-related claims, our product sales entail the risk of involvement in other product liability actions.  We maintain product liability insurance coverage, but we cannot give any assurance that current or future policy limits will be sufficient to cover all possible liabilities.  Further, we can give no assurance that adequate product liability insurance will continue to be available to us in the future or that such insurance may be maintained at a reasonable cost to us. In the event of a successful product liability claim against us, a lack or insufficiency of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to achieve the benefits that we expect from our cost savings initiatives.. We continue to implement a number of cost savings programs including closing our Grapevine, Texas facility, closing our recently acquired wire set assembly operation in Nogales, Mexico, closing our Orlando, Florida facility and moving some US production to other facilities, both domestically and to our facilities in Mexico and Poland.  We are also integrating and transferring acquired assets and businesses to company facilities.  Although we expect to realize cost savings as a result of these initiatives, we may not be able to achieve the level of benefits that we expect to realize or we may not be able to realize these benefits within the time frames we currently expect.  Our ability to achieve any anticipated cost savings could be affected by a number of factors such as changes in the amount, timing and character of charges related to such initiatives and failure to complete or a substantial delay in completing such initiatives.  Failure to achieve the benefits of our cost saving initiatives could have a material adverse effect on us.  Our cost savings is also predicated upon maintaining our sales levels.. Severe weather, natural disasters and other disruptions could adversely impact our operations at our manufacturing and distribution facilities.. Severe weather conditions and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods and tornados, could damage our properties and effect our operations, particularly our major manufacturing and distribution operations at foreign facilities in Canada, Mexico and Poland, and at our domestic facilities in Florida, Indiana, Kansas, South Carolina, Texas, and Virginia. In addition, our business and operations could be materially adversely affected in the event of other serious disruptions at these facilities due to fire, electrical blackouts, power losses, telecommunications failures, terrorist attack or similar events.  Any of these occurrences could impair our ability to adequately manufacture or supply our customers due to all or a significant portion of our equipment or inventory being damaged. We may not be able to effectively shift the manufacture or delivery of products to our customers if one or more of our manufacturing or distribution facilities are significantly disrupted.. 16. Index. Our operations would be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to purchase raw materials, manufactured components or equipment from our suppliers.. Because we purchase various types of raw materials, finished goods, equipment, and component parts from suppliers, we may be materially and adversely affected by the failure of those suppliers to perform as expected.  This non-performance may consist of delivery delays or failures caused by production issues or delivery of non-conforming products.  The risk of non-performance may also result from the insolvency or bankruptcy of one or more of our suppliers.  Our suppliers' ability to supply products to us is also subject to a number of risks, including availability and cost of raw materials, destruction of their facilities, or work stoppages.  In addition, our failure to promptly pay, or order sufficient quantities of inventory from our suppliers may increase the cost of products we purchase or may lead to suppliers refusing to sell products to us at all.  Our efforts to protect against and to minimize these risks may not always be effective.. Our operations could be adversely affected by interruptions or breaches in the security of our computer and information technology systems.. We rely on information technology systems throughout our organization to conduct day-to-day business operations, including the management of our supply chain and our purchasing, receiving and distribution functions.  We also routinely use our information technology systems to send, receive, store, access and use sensitive data relating to our Company and its employees, customers, suppliers, and business partners, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, and other sensitive materials.  Our information technology systems have been subject to cyber threats, including attempts to hack into our network and computer viruses.  Such hacking attempts and computer viruses have not significantly impacted or interrupted our business operations.  While we implement security measures designed to prevent and mitigate the risk of cyber attacks, our information technology systems, and those functions that we may outsource, may continue to be vulnerable to computer viruses, attacks by hackers, or unauthorized access caused by employee error or malfeasance.  The exploitation of any such vulnerability in our information technology systems, or those functions that we may outsource, could unexpectedly compromise the information security of our customers, suppliers and other business partners.  Furthermore, because the techniques used to carry out cyber attacks change frequently and in many instances are not recognized until after they are used against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these changes or implement adequate preventative measures.  If our information technology systems are subject to cyber attacks, such as those involving significant or extensive system interruptions, sabotage, computer viruses or unauthorized access, we could experience disruptions to our business operations and incur substantial remediation costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Risks Related to Liquidity. We are exposed to risks related to our receivables factoring arrangements.. We have entered into factoring arrangements with financial institutions to sell certain of our customers' trade accounts receivable without recourse.  If we do not enter into these factoring arrangements, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by delays or failures in collecting trade accounts receivables.  In addition, if any of the financial institutions with which we have factoring arrangements experience financial difficulties or otherwise terminate our factoring arrangements, we may experience material and adverse economic losses due to the loss of such factoring arrangements and the impact of such loss on our liquidity, which could have a material and adverse effect upon our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The utility of our factoring arrangements also depends upon LIBOR, as it is a component of the discount rate applicable to each arrangement. If LIBOR increases such that the cost of factoring becomes more than the cost of servicing our receivables with existing debt, we may not be able to rely on such factoring arrangements, which could have a material and adverse effect upon our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 17. Index. Increasing our indebtedness could negatively affect our financial health.. We have an existing revolving bank credit facility of $250 million with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as agent, and a syndicate of lenders, which we refer to throughout this Report as our revolving credit facility.  As of December 31, 2017, our total outstanding indebtedness was $61.8 million, of which amount $57 million of outstanding indebtedness and approximately $142.9 million of availability was attributable to this revolving credit facility.  Any significant increase in our indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate.. In addition, we have granted the lenders under our revolving credit facility a first priority security interest in substantially all of our currently owned and future acquired personal property and other assets. We have also pledged shares of stock in our subsidiaries to those lenders.  If we default on any of our indebtedness, or if we are unable to obtain necessary liquidity, our business could be adversely affected.. We may not be able to generate the significant amount of cash needed to service our indebtedness and fund our future operations.. Our ability either to make payments on or to refinance our indebtedness, or to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to generate cash is in part subject to:.   general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control;.   the ability of our customers to pay timely the amounts we have billed; and.   our ability to factor receivables under customer draft programs.. The occurrence of any of the foregoing factors could result in reduced cash flow, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Based on our current level of operations, we believe our cash flow from operations, available cash and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility will be adequate to meet our future liquidity needs for at least the next twelve months.  Significant assumptions underlie this belief, including, among other things, that there will be no material adverse developments in our business, liquidity or capital requirements. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include actions such as:.   deferring, reducing or eliminating future cash dividends;.   reducing or delaying capital expenditures or restructuring activities;.   reducing or delaying research and development efforts;.   selling assets;.   deferring or refraining from pursuing certain strategic initiatives and acquisitions;.   refinancing our indebtedness; and.   seeking additional funding.. We cannot assure you that, if material adverse developments in our business, liquidity or capital requirements should occur, our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our revolving credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. In addition, if we default on any of our indebtedness, or breach any financial covenant in our revolving credit facility, our business could be adversely affected.. 18. Index. Risks Related to External Factors. We conduct our manufacturing and distribution operations on a worldwide basis and are subject to risks associated with doing business outside the United States.. We have manufacturing and distribution facilities in many countries, including Canada, Poland, Mexico and China, and increasing our manufacturing footprint in low cost regions is an important element of our strategy.  There are a number of risks associated with doing business internationally, including: (a) exposure to local economic and political conditions; (b) social unrest such as risks of terrorism or other hostilities; (c) currency exchange rate fluctuations and currency controls; (d) the effect of potential changes in U.S. trade policy; and (e) the potential for shortages of trained labor.  In particular, there has been social unrest in Mexico and any increased violence in or around our manufacturing facilities in Mexico could impact our business by disrupting our supply chain, the delivery of products to customers, and the reluctance of our customers to visit our Mexican facilities.  In addition, the increased violence in or around our manufacturing facilities in Mexico could present several risks to our employees who may be directly affected by the violence and may result in a decision by them to relocate from the area, or make it difficult for us to recruit or retain talented employees at our Mexican facilities.  Furthermore, changes in U.S. trade policy, particularly as it relates to Mexico and China, could impose increased taxes on us or could impact the classification and treatment of our products for the purpose of assessing duties.  The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on us is unpredictable and may vary from country to country. Any such occurrences could be harmful to our business and our financial results.. We may incur liabilities under government regulations and environmental laws, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Domestic and foreign political developments and government regulations and policies directly affect automotive consumer products in the United States and abroad.  Regulations and policies relating to over-the-highway vehicles include standards established by the United States Department of Transportation for motor vehicle safety and emissions.  The modification of existing laws, regulations or policies, or the adoption of new laws, regulations or policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In August 2012, as required under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC adopted rules requiring us to provide disclosure regarding the use of specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, which are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries.  The rules require us to engage in ongoing due diligence efforts, and to disclose the results of our efforts in May of each year.  The rules could affect the sourcing and availability of such minerals used in the manufacture of our products as the number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited.  In addition, we expect to incur additional costs and expenses in order to comply with these rules, including for (i) due diligence to determine whether conflict minerals are necessary to the functionality or production of any of our products and, if so, to verify the sources of such conflict minerals; and (ii) any changes that we may desire to make to our products, processes, or sources of supply as a result of such diligence and verification activities.  It is also possible that we may face reputational harm if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict-free and/or we are unable to alter our products, processes or sources of supply to avoid such materials.  We may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that our products be certified as having conflict-free minerals, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so and lead to a loss of revenue.. Our operations and properties are subject to a wide variety of increasingly complex and stringent federal, state, local and international laws and regulations, including those governing the use, storage, handling, generation, treatment, emission, release, discharge and disposal of materials, substances and wastes, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater and the health and safety of employees. Such environmental laws, including but not limited to those under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation & Liability Act, may impose joint and several liability and may apply to conditions at properties presently or formerly owned or operated by an entity or its predecessors, as well as to conditions at properties at which wastes or other contamination attributable to an entity or its predecessors have been sent or otherwise come to be located.. 19. Index. The nature of our operations exposes us to the risk of claims with respect to such matters, and we can give no assurance that violations of such laws have not occurred or will not occur or that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with such claims.  We are currently monitoring our environmental remediation efforts at one of our facilities and our reserve balance related to the environmental clean-up at this facility is $0.6 million at December 31, 2017.  The environmental testing and any remediation costs at such facility may be covered by several insurance policies, although we can give no assurance that our insurance will cover any environmental remediation claims.  We also maintain insurance to cover our existing U.S. and Canadian facilities. We can give no assurance that the future cost of compliance with existing environmental laws and the liability for known environmental claims pursuant to such environmental laws will not give rise to additional significant expenditures or liabilities that would be material to us. In addition, future events, such as new information, changes in existing environmental laws or their interpretation, and more vigorous enforcement policies of federal, state or local regulatory agencies, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our future performance may be materially adversely affected by changes in technologies and improvements in the quality of new vehicle parts.. Changes in automotive technologies, such as vehicles powered by fuel cells or electricity, could negatively affect sales to our aftermarket customers. These factors could result in less demand for our products thereby causing a decline in our results of operations or deterioration in our business and financial condition and may have a material adverse effect on our long-term performance.. In addition, the size of the automobile replacement parts market depends, in part, upon the growth in number of vehicles on the road, increase in average vehicle age, change in total miles driven per year, new or modified environmental and vehicle safety regulations, including fuel-efficiency and emissions reduction standards, increase in pricing of new cars and new car quality and related warranties. The automobile replacement parts market has been negatively impacted by the fact that the quality of more recent automotive vehicles and their component parts (and related warranties) has improved, thereby lengthening the repair cycle. Generally, if parts last longer, there will be less demand for our products and the average useful life of automobile parts has been steadily increasing in recent years due to innovations in products and technology. In addition, the introduction by original equipment manufacturers of increased warranty and maintenance initiatives has the potential to decrease the demand for our products. When proper maintenance and repair procedures are followed, newer AC systems in particular are less prone to leak resulting in fewer AC system repairs. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations."
