[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors:. The following risk factors and other information included in this Report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face.  Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not know about currently, or that we currently believe are less significant, may also adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition.  If any of these risks actually occur, our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Our industry is influenced significantly by cyclical macroeconomic factors that are difficult to predict.. Our revenue is generated predominantly from the office furniture industry, and demand for office furniture is influenced heavily by a variety of factors, including macroeconomic factors such as corporate profits, non-residential fixed investment, white-collar employment and commercial office construction and vacancy rates. According to the U.S.-based Business and Institutional Furniture Manufacturers Association and European-based Centre for Industrial Studies, the U.S. and European office furniture industries have gone through two major downturns in recent history. Consumption declined by more than 30% and 20% from calendar year 2000 to 2003, and again by over 30% and 23% from 2007 to 2009, in the U.S. and Europe, respectively. During these downturns, our revenue declined in similar proportion and our profitability was significantly reduced. Although we have made a number of changes to adapt our business model to these cycles, our profitability could be impacted in the future by cyclical downturns. In addition, the pace of industry recovery, by geography or vertical market, may vary after a cyclical downturn. These macroeconomic factors are difficult to predict, and if we are unsuccessful in adapting our business as economic cyclical changes occur, our results may be adversely affected.. Failure to respond to changes in workplace trends and the competitive landscape may adversely affect our revenue and profits.. Advances in technology, the globalization of business, changing workforce demographics and shifts in work styles and behaviors are changing the world of work and may have a significant impact on the types of workplace products and services purchased by our customers, the level of revenue associated with our offerings and the geographic location of the demand. For example, in recent years, these trends have resulted in a reduction in the amount of office floor space allocated per employee, a reduction in the number, size and price of typical workstations, an increase in work occurring in more collaborative settings and in a variety of locations beyond the traditional office, an increase in residential and lounge-type settings, and broader price offering levels. The. 7. Table of Contents. confluence of these factors has attracted new competitors from outside the traditional office furniture industry, such as real estate management service firms, technology-based firms, general construction contractors and retail and online residential furniture providers, offering products and services which compete with those offered by us and our dealers.. In addition, the traditional office furniture industry is highly competitive, with a number of competitors offering similar categories of products. We compete on a variety of factors, including: brand recognition and reputation; insight from our research; product design and features; price, lead time, delivery and service; product quality; strength of dealers and other distributors and relationships with customers and key influencers, such as architects, designers and facility managers. If we are unsuccessful in developing and offering solutions which respond to changes in workplace trends and generate revenue to offset the impact of reduced numbers, size and price of typical workstations, or we or our dealers are unsuccessful in competing with existing competitors and new competitive offerings which could arise from outside our industry, our revenue and profits may be adversely affected.. We may not be able to successfully develop, implement and manage our diversification and growth strategies.. Our longer-term success depends on our ability to successfully develop, implement and manage strategies that will preserve our position as the world's largest office furniture manufacturer, as well as expand our offerings into adjacent and emerging markets. In particular, our diversification and growth strategies include:. • translating our research regarding the world of work into innovative solutions which address market and user needs,. • growing our market share with existing customers and new customers,. • continuing our expansion into adjacent markets such as healthcare clinical spaces, classrooms, libraries and other educational settings and smaller companies,. • expanding our product categories to include additional architecture and technology product offerings,. • growing our market share in markets such as China, India and central, eastern and southern Europe, the Middle East and Africa,. • investing in acquisitions and new business ventures and. • developing new alliances and additional channels of distribution.. If these strategies to diversify and increase our revenues are not sufficient, or if we do not execute these strategies successfully, our profitability may be adversely affected.. We have been and expect to continue making investments in strategic growth initiatives and new product development. If our return on these investments is lower, or develops more slowly than we anticipate, our profitability may be adversely affected.. We may be adversely affected by changes in raw material and commodity costs.. We procure raw materials (including steel, petroleum-based products, aluminum, other metals, wood and particleboard) from a significant number of sources globally. These raw materials are not rare or unique to our industry. The costs of these commodities, as well as fuel and energy costs, can fluctuate due to changes in global supply and demand, larger currency movements and changes in import tariffs and trade barriers, which can also cause supply interruptions. In the short-term, significant increases in raw material and commodity costs can be very difficult to offset with price increases because of existing contractual commitments with our customers, and it is difficult to find effective financial instruments to hedge against such changes. As a result, our gross margins can be adversely affected in the short-term by significant increases in these costs. If we are not successful in passing along higher raw material and commodity costs to our customers over the longer-term because of competitive pressures, our profitability could be negatively impacted.. Our global presence subjects us to risks that may negatively affect our profitability and financial condition.. We have manufacturing facilities, sales locations and offices in many countries, and as a result, we are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. Our success depends on our ability to manage the complexity associated with designing, developing, manufacturing and selling our solutions in a variety of countries.. 8. Table of Contents. Our global presence is also subject to market risks, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition, including:. • differing business practices, cultural factors and regulatory requirements,. • political, social and economic instability, natural disasters, security concerns, including terrorist activity, armed conflict and civil or military unrest and global health issues and. • intellectual property protection challenges.. Our global footprint makes us vulnerable to currency exchange rate fluctuations and currency controls.. We primarily sell our products in U.S. dollars and euros, but we generate some of our revenues and pay some of our expenses in other currencies. Our results are affected by the strength of the currencies in countries where we manufacture or purchase goods relative to the strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold.  We use foreign currency derivatives to hedge some of the short-term volatility of these exposures.  There can be no assurance that such hedging will be economically effective.  If we are not successful in managing currency exchange rate fluctuations, it could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition.. Although we operate globally in multiple currencies, we report our results in U.S. dollars, and thus our reported results may be positively or negatively impacted by the strengthening or weakening of the other currencies in which we operate against the U.S. dollar.. In addition, we face restrictions in certain countries that limit or prevent the transfer of funds to other countries or the exchange of the local currency to other currencies, which could have a negative impact on our profitability. We also face risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates that may lead to a decline in the value of the funds held in certain jurisdictions, as well as the value of intercompany balances denominated in foreign currencies.. Changes in tariffs, global trade agreements or government procurement could adversely affect our business.. More than 40% of the goods we sell to customers in the U.S., including U.S. government agencies, are manufactured outside of the U.S., predominantly by our subsidiaries in Mexico.  Our Mexican manufacturing subsidiaries operate as maquiladoras, importing the majority of their raw materials and component parts from the U.S.  We also operate shared services centers in several foreign locations that support our business globally, including our U.S. locations.  The implementation of any new tariffs or a border adjustment tax, the repeal or modification of the North American Free Trade Agreement or other global trade agreements or changes in U.S. government procurement rules requiring a certain amount of domestic content in goods, or requiring goods to be produced in the U.S., could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition.. We are increasingly reliant on a global network of suppliers.. We are reliant on the timely flow of raw materials, components and finished goods from a global network of third-party suppliers. The flow of such materials, components and goods may be affected by:. • fluctuations in the pricing, availability and quality of raw materials,. • the financial solvency of our suppliers and their supply chains,. • changes in international trade agreements or tariffs,. • disruptions caused by labor activities and. • damage and loss of production from accidents, natural disasters and other causes.. Any disruptions or fluctuations in the pricing, supply and delivery of raw materials, component parts and finished goods or deficiencies in our ability to manage our global network of suppliers could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition.. 9. Table of Contents. The lack of redundant capabilities among our regional manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our business.. Many of our products are currently produced in only one location in each of the three geographic regions in which we operate (the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific), and our manufacturing model is predominately make-to-order.  As a result, any issue which impacts the production capabilities of one of our manufacturing locations, such as natural disasters, disruptions in the supply of materials or components, equipment failures or disruptions caused by labor activities, could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition.. We rely largely on a network of independent dealers to market, deliver and install our products, and disruptions and increasing consolidations within our dealer network could adversely affect our business.. From time to time, we or a dealer may choose to terminate our relationship, or the dealer could face financial insolvency or difficulty in transitioning to new ownership. Our business is influenced by our ability to initiate and manage new and existing relationships with independent dealers, and establishing new dealers in a market can take considerable time and resources. Disruption of dealer coverage within a specific local market could have an adverse impact on our business within the affected market. The loss or termination of a significant number of dealers or the inability to establish new dealers could cause difficulties in marketing and distributing our products and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In the event that a dealer in a strategic market experiences financial difficulty, we may choose to make financial investments in the dealership, which would reduce the risk of disruption but increase our financial exposure.  Alternatively, we may elect to purchase and operate dealers in certain markets which also would require use of our capital and increase our financial exposure.. Our diversification and growth strategies into adjacent markets, such as healthcare and education, and the increasing complexity of our technology and architectural products are driving the need for our dealers to develop additional capabilities and invest in additional resources to support such products and markets.  Some of our smaller dealers do not have the scale to leverage such investments, and as a result, we have seen and may continue to see increased consolidation within our dealer network.  This increased concentration and size of dealers could increase our exposure to the risks discussed above.. We may be adversely impacted by product defects.. Product defects can occur within our own product development and manufacturing processes or through our increasing reliance on third parties for product development, manufacturing and testing activities. We incur various expenses related to product defects, including product warranty costs, product recall and retrofit costs and product liability costs, which can have an adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, the reputation of our brands may be diminished by product defects and recalls.. We maintain a reserve for our product warranty costs based on certain estimates and our knowledge of current events and actions, but our actual warranty costs may exceed our reserve, resulting in a need to increase our accruals for warranty charges. We purchase insurance coverage to reduce our exposure to significant levels of product liability claims and maintain a reserve for our self-insured losses based upon estimates of the aggregate liability using claims experience and actuarial assumptions. Incorrect estimates or any significant increase in the rate of our product defect expenses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We may be required to record impairment charges related to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets which would adversely affect our results of operations.. We have net goodwill of $138.2 and indefinite-lived intangible assets of $12.8 as of February 23, 2018.  Goodwill and other acquired intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized but are evaluated for impairment annually in Q4 or whenever an event occurs or circumstances change such that it is more likely than not that an impairment may exist. Poor performance in portions of our business where we have goodwill or intangible assets, including failure to achieve projected performance from acquisitions, or declines in the market value of our equity, may result in impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations.. 10. Table of Contents. Changes in corporate tax laws could adversely affect our business.. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions, and more than 65% of our income tax expense in 2018 related to the U.S. federal corporate income tax.  As of February 23, 2018, we had deferred tax assets of $135.4 based on the current U.S. corporate income tax rate of 21%.  The future effective tax rate could be affected by changes in mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws or their interpretation which are being considered in many jurisdictions.  Such tax law changes, if enacted, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial position.  Specifically, a reduction in applicable tax rates may require us to revalue and write-down our deferred tax assets.. There may be significant limitations to our utilization of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards to offset future taxable income.. We have deferred tax assets related to net operating loss (\"NOL\") and tax credit carryforwards totaling $55.8 and $31.8, respectively, against which valuation allowances totaling $9.5 have been recorded.  NOL carryforwards are primarily related to foreign jurisdictions.  Tax credit carryforwards consist of U.S. foreign tax credits and foreign investment tax credits.  We may be unable to generate sufficient taxable income from future operations in the jurisdictions in which we maintain deferred tax assets related to NOL and tax credit carryforwards, or implement tax, business or other planning strategies, to fully utilize the recorded value of our NOL and tax credit carryforwards.  These deferred tax assets are recorded in various currencies that are also subject to foreign exchange risk, which could reduce the amount we may ultimately realize.  Additionally, future changes in tax laws or interpretations of such tax laws may limit our ability to fully utilize our NOL and tax credit carryforwards.. Costs related to our participation in a multi-employer pension plan could increase.. Our subsidiary SC Transport Inc. contributes to the Central States, Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Fund, a multi-employer pension plan, based on obligations arising under a collective bargaining agreement with our SC Transport Inc. employees. The plan is not administered by or in any way controlled by us. We have relatively little control over the level of contributions we are required to make to the plan, and it is substantially underfunded. As a result, contributions are scheduled to increase, and we expect that contributions to the plan may be subject to further increases. The amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to the multi-employer pension plan will depend upon the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plan, governmental regulations, the actual return on assets held in the plan, the continued viability and contributions of other employers which contribute to the plan and the potential payment of a withdrawal liability, among other factors.. Under current law, an employer that withdraws or partially withdraws from a multi-employer pension plan may incur a withdrawal liability to the plan, which represents the portion of the plan's underfunding that is allocable to the withdrawing employer under very complex actuarial and allocation rules. We could incur a withdrawal liability if we substantially reduce the number of SC Transport Inc. employees.  There were a total of 14 SC Transport Inc. employees as of February 23, 2018. The most recent estimate of our potential withdrawal liability is $27.7 as of February 23, 2018.. 11. Table of Contents"
