[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. This section describes certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. You should consider these risk factors when evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, because our actual results and financial condition might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements should these risks occur. We face other risks besides those highlighted below. These other risks include additional uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial, but may ultimately have a significant impact. Should any of these risks, described below or otherwise, actually occur, our business, financial condition, performance, prospects, value, or results of operations could be negatively affected.. MARKET RISKSRisk or uncertainty Discussion Doing business internationally   We conduct manufacturing, sales and distribution operations on a worldwide basis and are subject to a variety of risks associated with doing business internationally. Implementation and achievement of international growth objectives also may be impeded by political, social, and economic uncertainties or unrest in countries in which we conduct operations or market or distribute our products. We maintain significant international operations, including operations in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America. As a result, we are subject to a number of risks and complications associated with international manufacturing, sales, services, and other operations. These include: risks associated with currency exchange rate fluctuations; difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; enhanced credit risks in certain European countries as well as emerging market regions; Customers with longer payment cycles than Customers in the United States; significant variations in tax rates among the countries in which we do business, and tax withholding obligations in respect of our earnings; tax laws that restrict our ability to use tax credits, offset gains, or repatriate funds; tariffs, exchange controls or other trade restrictions including transfer pricing restrictions when products produced in one country are sold to an affiliated entity in another country; general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate or where end users of our products are situated, including the potential implications of the U.K. \"Brexit\" or the withdrawal from the EU of other member countries; difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries; difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights or weaker intellectual property right protections in some countries and difficulties associated with compliance with a variety of laws and regulations governing international trade, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act and laws and regulations dealing with trade with persons in sanctioned countries. Compliance with multiple, and potentially conflicting, international laws and regulations, import and export limitations, anti-corruption laws, and exchange controls may be difficult, burdensome or expensive. We are subject to compliance with various laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and similar anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We are also subject to limitations on trade with persons in sanctioned countries. While our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot assure you that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics.. 9. Table of Contents. Risk or uncertainty Discussion Economic conditions and financial market access   Changes in economic climate may adversely affect us. Adverse economic cycles or conditions and Customer, regulatory or government response to those cycles or conditions, could affect our results of operations. The onset of these cycles or conditions may not be foreseeable and there can be no assurance when they will begin to improve after they occur. There also can be no assurance as to the strength or length of any recovery from a business downturn or recession. Credit and liquidity problems may make it difficult for some businesses to access credit markets and obtain financing and may cause some businesses to curtail spending to conserve cash in anticipation of persistent business slowdowns and liquidity needs. If our Customers have difficulty financing their purchases due to tight credit markets or related factors or because of other operational or utilization problems they may be experiencing or otherwise decide to curtail their purchases, our business could be adversely affected. Our exposure to bad debt losses could also increase if Customers are unable to pay for products previously ordered and delivered. Many of our Customers are governmental entities or other entities that rely on government healthcare systems or government funding. If government funding for healthcare becomes limited or restricted in countries in which we operate, our Customers may be unable to pay their obligations on a timely basis or to make payment in full and it may become necessary to increase reserves. In addition, there can be no assurance that there will not be an increase in collection difficulties. Prospectively, additional adverse effects resulting from these conditions may include decreased healthcare utilization, further pricing pressure on our products and services, and/or weaker overall demand for our products and services, particularly capital products.  Our acquisition activity and ability to grow organically may be adversely affected if we are unable to continue to access the financial markets. Our recent acquisitions have been financed largely through cash on hand and borrowings under our bank credit facilities. Future acquisitions or other capital requirements will necessitate additional cash.  To the extent our existing sources of cash are insufficient to fund these or other future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through new or expanded borrowing arrangements or equity.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional funds beyond those available under existing bank credit facilities on terms favorable to us, or at all, or that such facilities can be replaced when they terminate.. 10. Table of Contents. LEGAL, REGULATORY AND TAX RISKS. Risk or uncertainty Discussion Healthcare laws and reimbursement   Changes in healthcare laws or government and other third-party payor reimbursement levels to healthcare providers, or failure to meet healthcare reimbursement or other requirements, might negatively impact our business.  We sell many of our products and services to hospitals and other healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers. Many of these Customers are subject to or supported by government programs or receive reimbursement for services from third-party payors, such as government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private insurance plans, and managed care programs. Reimbursement systems vary significantly by country. However, government-managed healthcare systems control reimbursement for healthcare services in many countries. Public budgetary constraints may significantly impact the ability of hospitals, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and other Customers supported by such systems to purchase our products. Government or other third-party payors may deny or change coverage, reduce their current levels of reimbursement for healthcare services, or otherwise implement measures to regulate pricing or contain costs. In addition, our costs may increase more rapidly than reimbursement levels or permissible pricing increases or we may not satisfy the standards or requirements for reimbursement.  Among other provisions, the U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, imposed an excise tax on medical devices manufactured or offered for sale in the United States. Early in 2018, U.S. Congress enacted legislation that extended the suspension of the excise tax, which suspension had been in place in since the beginning of calendar year 2016, for 2018 and 2019. Should the U.S. Congress take no further action with regard to this tax we will begin to incur excise tax in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020. We incurred $5.8 million in medical device excise taxes for fiscal 2016.  In addition, we have been required to commit significant resources to \"Sunshine Act\" compliance. Various additional health care reform proposals have emerged at the federal and state level, and we are unable to predict which, if any, of those proposals will be enacted.. 11. Table of Contents. Risk or uncertainty Discussion Product related regulations and claims   We are subject to extensive regulatory requirements and must receive and maintain regulatory clearance or approval for many products and operations. Failure to receive or maintain, or delays in receiving, clearance or approvals may hurt our revenues, profitability, financial condition, or value. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation in the countries where we do business.  In the United States, our products and services are regulated by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. In many foreign countries, sales of our products and services are subject to extensive regulations that may or may not be comparable to those of the FDA. In Europe, our products are regulated primarily by country and community regulations of those countries within the European Economic Area and must conform to the requirements of those authorities. Government regulation applies to nearly all aspects of testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storing, recordkeeping, reporting, promoting, distributing, and importing or exporting of medical devices, products, and services. In general, unless an exemption applies, a sterilization, decontamination or medical device or product or service must receive regulatory approval or clearance before it can be marketed or sold. Modifications to existing products or the marketing of new uses for existing products also may require regulatory approvals, approval supplements or clearances. If we are unable to obtain any required approvals, approval supplements or clearances for any modification to a previously cleared or approved device, we may be required to cease manufacturing and sale, or recall or restrict the use of such modified device, pay fines, or take other action until such time as appropriate clearance or approval is obtained. Regulatory agencies may refuse to grant approval or clearance, or review and disagree with our interpretation of approvals or clearances, or with our decision that regulatory approval is not required or has been maintained. Regulatory submissions may require the provision of additional data and may be time consuming and costly, and their outcome is uncertain. Regulatory agencies may also change policies, adopt additional regulations, or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay approval or clearance of devices, or could impact our ability to market a previously cleared, approved, or unregulated device. Our failure to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA or other applicable regulatory requirements in the United States or elsewhere might subject us to administratively or judicially imposed sanctions. These sanctions include, among others, warning letters, fines, civil penalties, criminal penalties, injunctions, debarment, product seizure or detention, product recalls and total or partial suspension of production, sale and/or promotion.  Our products are subject to recalls and restrictions, even after receiving United States or foreign regulatory clearance or approval. Ongoing medical device reporting regulations require that we report to appropriate governmental authorities in the United States and/or other countries when our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. Governmental authorities can require product recalls or impose restrictions for product design, manufacturing, labeling, clearance, or other issues. For the same reasons, we may voluntarily elect to recall or restrict the use of a product. Any recall or restriction could divert managerial and financial resources and might harm our reputation among our Customers and other healthcare professionals who use or recommend our products and services.. 12. Table of Contents. We may be adversely affected by product liability claims or other legal actions or regulatory or compliance matters. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims and other legal and regulatory actions. A significant increase in the number, severity, amount, or scope of these claims and actions may, as described above with respect to recalls and restrictions, result in substantial costs and harm our reputation or otherwise adversely affect product sales and our business. Product liability claims and other legal and regulatory actions may also distract management from other business responsibilities. We are also subject to a variety of other types of claims, proceedings, investigations, and litigation initiated by government agencies or third parties and other potential risks and liabilities. These include compliance matters, product regulation or safety, taxes, employee benefit plans, employment discrimination, health and safety, environmental, antitrust, customs, import/export, government contract compliance, financial controls or reporting, intellectual property, allegations of misrepresentation, false claims or false statements, commercial claims, claims regarding promotion of our products and services, or other similar or different matters. Any such claims, proceedings, investigations or litigation, regardless of the merits, might result in substantial costs, restrictions on product use or sales, or otherwise injure our business. Administratively or judicially imposed or agreed sanctions might include warning letters, fines, civil penalties, criminal penalties, loss of tax benefits, injunctions, product seizure, recalls, suspensions or restrictions, re-labeling, detention, and/or debarment. We also might be required to take actions such as payment of substantial amounts, or revision of financial statements, or to take, or be subject to, the following types of actions with respect to our products, services, or business: redesign, re-label, restrict, or recall products; cease manufacturing and selling products; seizure of product inventory; comply with a court injunction restricting or prohibiting further marketing and sale of products or services; comply with a consent decree, which could result in further regulatory constraints; dedication of significant internal and external resources and costs to respond to and comply with legal and regulatory issues and constraints; respond to claims, litigation, and other proceedings brought by Customers, users, governmental agencies, and others; disruption of product improvements and product launches; discontinuation of certain product lines or services; or other restrictions or limitations on product sales, use or operation, or other activities or business practices. Some product replacements or substitutions may not be possible or may be prohibitively costly or time consuming. The impact of any legal, regulatory, or compliance claims, proceeding, investigation, or litigation, is difficult to predict.   We maintain product liability and other insurance with coverages believed to be adequate. However, product liability or other claims may exceed insurance coverage limits, fines, penalties and regulatory sanctions may not be covered by insurance, or insurance may not continue to be available or available on commercially reasonable terms. Additionally, our insurers might deny claim coverage for valid or other reasons or may become insolvent.. 13. Table of Contents. Our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by difficulties in acquiring or maintaining a proprietary intellectual ownership position. To maintain our competitive position for our products, we need to obtain patent or other proprietary rights for new and improved products and to maintain and enforce our existing patents and other proprietary rights. We typically apply for patents in the United States and in strategic other countries. We may also acquire patents through acquisitions. We may encounter difficulties in obtaining or protecting patents. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, and confidentiality agreements to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology. These measures afford only limited protection, and competitors may gain access to our intellectual property and proprietary information. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Litigation may also be brought against us claiming that we have violated the intellectual property rights of others. Litigation may be costly and may divert management's attention from other matters. Additionally, in some foreign countries with weaker intellectual property rights, it may be difficult to maintain and enforce patents and other proprietary rights or defend against claims of infringement.  Tax and trade risks   Current economic and political conditions make tax rules in any jurisdiction subject to significant change. The U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\") was signed into law on December 22, 2017. Additional guidance is likely to be issued clarifying the application of this new legislation. We cannot predict the overall impact that the additional guidance may have on our business. It is reasonable to expect that global taxing authorities will be reviewing current legislation for potential modifications in reaction to the implementation of the TCJA. In addition, further changes in the tax laws of other jurisdictions could arise, including as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) project undertaken by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The OECD, which represents a coalition of member countries, has issued recommendations that, in some cases, would make substantial changes to numerous long-standing tax positions and principles. These contemplated changes, to the extent adopted by OECD members and/or other countries, could increase tax uncertainty and may adversely impact our provision for income taxes.   Our tax rate is uncertain and may vary from expectations, which could have a material impact on our results of operations and earnings per share. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain any particular worldwide effective corporate tax rate. We cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be in the future because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions in which we and our affiliates operate, including the potential tax implications of the U.K. \"Brexit\". Our actual effective tax rate may vary from our expectations, and such variance may be material. Additionally, tax laws or their implementation and applicable tax authority practices in any particular jurisdiction could change in the future, possibly on a retroactive basis, and any such change could have a material adverse impact on us and our affiliates. Changes in tax treaties and trade agreements could negatively impact our costs, results of operations and earnings per share. Legislative and regulatory action may be taken in the U.S. which, if ultimately adopted, could override or otherwise adversely impact tax treaties upon which we rely or broaden the circumstances under which STERIS would be considered a U.S. resident, each of which could materially and adversely affect our tax obligations. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative or regulatory proposals. However, if proposals were adopted that had the effect of disregarding our incorporation in the U.K. or limiting our ability as a U.K. company to take advantage of tax treaties with the U.S., we could be subject to increased taxation and/or potentially significant expense. Existing free trade laws and regulations, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, provide certain beneficial duties and tariffs for qualifying imports and exports, subject to compliance with the applicable classification and other requirements. Changes in laws and regulations or policies governing the terms of foreign trade, and in particular, increased trade restrictions, tariffs or taxes on imports from countries where we manufacture products could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results.. 14. Table of Contents. Proposed legislation relating to the denial of U.S. federal or state governmental contracts to U.S. companies that redomicile abroad could adversely affect our business. Various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny governmental contracts to redomiciled companies may adversely affect us if adopted into law. We are unable to predict the likelihood that any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments or increased regulatory scrutiny could have on our business. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") may not agree that we are a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. Although we are incorporated under the laws of England and Wales and are a tax resident in the U.K. for U.K. tax purposes, the IRS may assert that we should be treated as a U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal tax purposes pursuant to Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\" and such Section, \"Section 7874\"). For U.S. federal tax purposes, a corporation generally is considered to be a tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation. Because we are incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, we would generally be classified as a non-U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a non-U.S. tax resident) under these rules. Section 7874, however, provides an exception to this general rule under which a non-U.S. incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances (including a transaction pursuant to which a U.S. corporation is acquired by a non-U.S. corporation), be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. If we were to be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, we could be subject to substantial additional U.S. tax liability. Additionally, if we were treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, non-U.S. holders of STERIS ordinary shares would be subject to U.S. withholding tax on the gross amount of any dividends we paid to such shareholders. For U.K. tax purposes, we are expected, regardless of any application of Section 7874, to be treated as a U.K. tax resident. Consequently, if we are treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes under Section 7874, we could be liable for both U.S. and U.K. taxes, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. BUSINESS AND OPERATIONAL RISKS. Risk or uncertainty Discussion Competition   Our businesses are highly competitive, and if we fail to compete successfully, our revenues and results of operations may be hurt. We operate in a highly competitive global environment. Our businesses compete with other broad-line manufacturers, as well as many smaller businesses specializing in particular products or services, primarily on the basis of brand, design, quality, safety, ease of use, serviceability, price, product features, warranty, delivery, service, and technical support. We face increased competition from new infection prevention, sterile processing, contamination control, surgical support, cleaning consumables, gastrointestinal endoscopy accessories, contract sterilization, and other products and services entering the market. Competitors and potential competitors also are attempting to develop alternate technologies and sterilizing agents, as well as disposable medical instruments and other devices designed to address the risk of contamination. Consolidations among our healthcare and pharmaceutical Customers may result in a loss of Customers or more significant pricing pressures. A number of our Customers have consolidated. These consolidations are due in part to healthcare cost reduction measures initiated by competitive pressures as well as legislators, regulators and third-party payors. In an effort to attract Customers, some of our competitors have also reduced production costs and lowered prices. This has resulted in greater pricing pressures on us and in some cases loss of Customers. Additional consolidations could result in a loss of Customers or more significant pricing pressures.. 15. Table of Contents. Decreased availability or increased costs of raw materials or energy supplies or other supplies might increase our production costs or limit our production capabilities or curtail our operations. We purchase raw materials, fabricated and other components, and energy supplies from a variety of suppliers. Key materials include stainless steel, organic and inorganic chemicals, fuel, cobalt-60, EO, and plastic components. The availability and prices of raw materials and energy supplies are subject to volatility and are influenced by worldwide economic conditions, speculative action, world supply and demand balances, inventory levels, availability of substitute materials, currency exchange rates, anticipated or perceived shortages, and other factors. Also, certain of our key materials and components have a limited number of suppliers. Some are single-sourced in certain regions of the world, such as cobalt-60 and EO, which are necessary to our AST operations; the unavailability or short supply of these products might disrupt or cause shutdowns of portions of our AST operations or have other adverse consequences. Shortages in supply, regulatory or security requirements, or increases in the price of raw materials, components and energy supplies may adversely affect us. Our operations, and those of our suppliers, are subject to a variety of business continuity hazards and risks, any of which could interrupt production or operations or otherwise adversely affect our performance, results, or value. Business continuity hazards and other risks include: explosions, fires, earthquakes, inclement weather, and other disasters;  utility or other mechanical failures; unscheduled downtime; labor difficulties; inability to obtain or maintain any required licenses or permits; disruption of communications; data security, preservation and redundancy disruptions; inability to hire or retain key management or employees; disruption of supply or distribution; and regulation of the safety, security or other aspects of our operations. The occurrence of any of these or other events might disrupt or shut down operations, or otherwise adversely impact the production or profitability of a particular facility, or our operations as a whole. Certain casualties also might cause personal injury and loss of life, or severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, and for casualties occurring at our facilities, result in liability claims against us. Although we maintain property and casualty insurance and liability and similar insurance of the types and in the amounts that we believe are customary for our industries, our insurance coverages have limits and we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business.. 16. Table of Contents. We engage in acquisitions and affiliations, divestitures, and other business arrangements. Our growth may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully identify, price, and integrate strategic business candidates or otherwise optimize our business portfolio. Our success depends, in part, on strategic acquisitions and joint ventures, which are intended to complement or expand our businesses, divestiture of non-strategic businesses, and other actions intended to optimize our portfolio of businesses. This strategy depends upon our ability to identify, appropriately price, and complete these types of business development transactions or arrangements and to obtain any necessary financing. In the last several fiscal years we have made a number of acquisitions, the most significant of which was the acquisition of Synergy Health plc. We also completed several divestitures of non-strategic businesses or product lines during fiscal 2018 and 2017 including linen management services in the U.K., U.S. and Netherlands, laboratory services in the U.K., a consumables product line in the U.K., and our Applied Infection Control product line. Our success with respect to these recent and future acquisitions will depend on our ability to integrate the businesses acquired, retain key personnel, realize identified cost synergies and otherwise execute our strategies. Our success will also depend on our ability to develop satisfactory working arrangements with our strategic partners in joint ventures or other affiliations, or to divest or realign businesses. Competition for strategic business candidates may result in increases in costs and price for acquisition candidates and market valuation issues may reduce the value available for divestiture of non-strategic businesses. These types of transactions are also subject to a number of other risks and uncertainties, including: delays in realizing or failure to realize anticipated benefits of the transactions; diversion of management's time and attention from other business concerns; difficulties in retaining key employees, Customers, or suppliers of the acquired or divested businesses; difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, or other integration or divestiture difficulties; adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers or Customers; other events contributing to difficulties in generating future cash flows; risks associated with the assumption of contingent or other liabilities of acquisition targets or retention of liabilities for divested businesses and difficulties in obtaining financing.  If our continuing efforts to create a lean business and in-source production to reduce costs are not successful, our profitability may be hurt or our business otherwise might be adversely affected. We have undertaken various activities to create a lean business, including in-sourcing.  We continue to look for opportunities to in-source production that is currently provided by third parties and have made large investments during the past few fiscal years. These activities may not produce the full efficiencies and cost reduction benefits that we expect or efficiencies and benefits might be delayed. Implementation costs also might exceed expectations. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to recruit and retain qualified management and other personnel or other compliance matters adversely impact our personnel. Our continued success depends, in large part, on our ability to hire and retain highly qualified people and if we are unable to do so, our business and operations may be impaired or disrupted. Competition for highly qualified people is intense and there is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining replacements to fill vacant positions, successors to fill retirements or employees moving to new positions, or other highly qualified personnel. In addition, legal, regulatory or compliance matters create significant distraction or diversion of significant or unanticipated resources or attention that could have a material adverse effect on the responsibilities and retention of qualified employees.. 17. Table of Contents. We could experience a failure of a key information technology system, process or site or a breach of information security, including a cybersecurity breach or failure of one or more key information technology systems, networks, processes, associated sites or service providers.   We rely extensively on information technology (IT) systems to conduct business. In addition, we rely on networks and services, including internet sites, data hosting and processing facilities and tools and other hardware, software and technical applications and platforms, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third-parties or their vendors, to assist in conducting our business. Numerous and evolving cybersecurity threats pose potential risks to the security of our IT systems, networks and services, as well as the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. While we have made investments seeking to address these threats, including monitoring of networks and systems, hiring of experts, employee training and security policies for employees and third-party providers, the techniques used in these attacks change frequently and may be difficult to detect for periods of time and we may face difficulties in anticipating and implementing adequate preventative measures. If our IT systems are damaged or cease to function properly, the networks or service providers we rely upon fail to function properly, or we or one of our third-party providers suffer a loss or disclosure of our business or stakeholder information due to any number of causes ranging from catastrophic events or power outages to improper data handling or security breaches and our business continuity plans do not effectively address these failures on a timely basis, we may be exposed to reputational, competitive and business harm as well as litigation and regulatory action. Enforcement of the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") is effective as of May 2018. The GDPR is focused on the protection of personal data not merely the privacy of personal data. The GDPR creates a range of new compliance obligations and will significantly increase financial penalties for noncompliance (including possible fines of up to 4% of global annual turnover for the preceding financial year or \20020 million (whichever is higher) for the most serious infringements)."
