[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our consolidated results of operations, financial position, cash flows and reputation can be adversely affected by various risks.  These risks include the principal factors listed below and the other matters set forth in this Form 10-K.  There may be additional risks of which we are not presently aware or that we currently believe are immaterial that could have an adverse impact on our business.. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which is frequently difficult, expensive and time-consuming with which to comply; noncompliance could adversely affect our operations and efforts to grow our business results.. The regulated waste management and secure information destruction industries are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the collection, transportation, packaging, labeling, handling, documentation, reporting, treatment and disposal of regulated waste and the proper handling and protection of personal and confidential information.  Our business requires us to obtain many permits, authorizations, approvals, certificates, and other types of governmental permissions and to comply with various regulations in every jurisdiction in which we operate.  Federal, state and local regulations change often, and new regulations are frequently adopted.  Changes in the regulations could require us to obtain new permits or to change the way in which we operate our business.  We might be unable to obtain the new permits that we require, and the cost of compliance with new or changed regulations could be significant.. Many of the permits that we require, especially those to build and operate processing plants and transfer facilities, are difficult and time-consuming to obtain.  They may also contain conditions or restrictions that limit our ability to operate efficiently, and they may not be issued as quickly as we need them (or at all).  If we cannot obtain the permits, or if they contain unfavorable conditions, it could substantially impair our operations and reduce our revenues and/or profitability.. If we encounter regulatory compliance issues in the course of operating our businesses, we may experience adverse publicity, which may intensify if such non-compliance results in civil or criminal liability.  This adverse publicity may harm our reputation, and result in difficulties in attracting new customers, or retaining existing customers.. The level of governmental enforcement of environmental regulations has an uncertain effect on our business and could reduce the demand for our services.. We believe that strict enforcement of laws and regulations relating to regulated waste collection and treatment and the proper handling and protection of personal and confidential information by governmental authorities can have a positive effect on our business.  These laws and regulations increase the demand for our services.  Relaxation of enforcement or other changes in governmental regulation of regulated waste and personal and confidential information could increase the number of competitors we face or reduce the need for our services.. Unfavorable market conditions, including those driven by economic or social trends, may impact the volume of regulated wastes or personal and confidential information we collect from customers.. The compliance-based services we provide rely on the generation of regulated wastes or personal and confidential information by our customers.  The amount of material generated by our customers may be impacted by macro-economic trends associated with manufacturing and industrial markets, healthcare market dynamics, and trends associated with electronic and digital record keeping.  Many of our services are provided on a subscription basis with a monthly fee to minimize short-term or cyclical variability. 2017 10-K Annual Report   Stericycle, Inc.  •  17"
