[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Changes in laws, government rules and regulations and monetary policy may have a material effect on our results of operations.. Financial institutions are subject to significant laws, rules and regulations and may be subject to further additional legislation, rulemaking or regulation in the future, none of which is within our control. Significant new laws, rules or regulations or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws, rules or regulations, including, but not limited to, those with respect to federal and state taxation and the Dodd-Frank Act, may cause our results of operations to differ materially. In addition, the costs and burden of compliance with such laws, rules and regulations continue to increase and could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Further, federal monetary policy significantly affects credit conditions for the Bank, as well as for our borrowers, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System (the \"Federal Reserve\"), primarily through open market operations in U.S. government securities, the discount rate for bank borrowings and reserve requirements. A material change in any of these conditions could have a material impact on the Bank or our borrowers, and, as a result, our results of operations.. Legislative and regulatory initiatives to support the financial services industry have been coupled with numerous restrictions and requirements that could detrimentally affect our business.. The Dodd-Frank Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder have had, and will continue to have, significant impact on the United States bank regulatory structure and the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies.. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly impacted various consumer protection laws, rules and regulations applicable to financial institutions. First, it rolled back the federal preemption of state consumer protection laws that was enjoyed by national banks by (1) requiring that a state consumer financial law prevent or significantly interfere with the exercise of a national bank's powers before it can be preempted, (2) mandating that any preemption decision be made on a case by case basis rather than a blanket rule, and (3) ending the applicability of preemption to subsidiaries and affiliates of national banks. As a result, we may be subject to state consumer protection laws in each state where we do business, and those laws may be interpreted and enforced differently in each state. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB, which has assumed responsibility for supervising financial institutions that have assets of $10 billion or more for their compliance with the principal federal consumer protection laws, such as the Truth in Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and the Truth in Savings Act, among others. The Bank's total assets exceed $10 billion, thus making it subject to the CFPB's supervision. Therefore, in addition to a variety of consumer protection laws, rules and regulations that we may be subject to, the Bank is also subject to the CFPB's evolving regulations and practices.. The Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations also impose various additional requirements on bank holding companies with $10 billion or more in total assets, including compliance with portions of the Federal Reserve's enhanced prudential oversight requirements and annual stress testing requirements. Compliance with the annual stress testing requirements, part of which must be publicly disclosed, may also be misinterpreted by the market generally or our customers and, as a result, may adversely affect our stock price or our ability to retain our customers or effectively compete for new business opportunities. Further, we may incur compliance-related costs and our regulators may also consider our level of compliance with these regulatory requirements when examining our operations generally or considering any request for regulatory approval we may make, even requests for approvals on unrelated matters.. The scope and impact of many of the Dodd-Frank Act provisions, including the authority provided to the CFPB, will continue to be determined over time as rules and regulations are issued and become effective. As a result, we still cannot predict the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on us at this time, including the extent to which it could increase costs or limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our. 11. Table of Contents. ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares. However, it is expected that, at a minimum, our operating and compliance costs will continue to increase.. In addition, as a result of the Volcker Rule, banking entities are prohibited from, among other things, engaging in short-term proprietary trading of securities, derivatives, commodity futures and options on these instruments for their own account or owning, sponsoring, or having certain relationships with \"covered funds,\" including hedge funds or private equity funds. The Volcker Rule also requires covered banking entities, including us and the Bank, to implement certain compliance programs, policies and procedures, which we have done.. Compliance with the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, including the Volcker Rule, may necessitate that we hire additional compliance or other personnel, design and implement additional internal controls, or incur other significant expenses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares.. We are subject to extensive regulatory oversight.. We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation. We are supervised and regulated by the Federal Reserve and the Bank is supervised and regulated by the OCC, as its primary federal regulator, by the FDIC, as the insurer of its deposits, and by the CFPB, which has broad authority to regulate financial service providers and financial products. The application of laws, rules and regulations may vary as administered by such regulators. In addition, we are subject to consolidated capital requirements and must serve as a source of strength to the Bank.. As a result, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. This regulatory structure is designed primarily for the protection of the DIF and our depositors, as well as other consumers, and not to benefit our shareholders. This regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes, all of which can have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares. Our regulators have also intensified their focus on bank lending criteria and controls, and on the USA Patriot Act's anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements and there is increased scrutiny of our compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. In order to comply with laws, rules, regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in the anti-money laundering area, we have been required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. We cannot be certain that the policies, procedures and systems we have in place to ensure compliance are without error, and there is no assurance that in every instance we are in full compliance with these requirements.. Our failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations could result in a range of sanctions, legal proceedings and enforcement actions, including the imposition of civil monetary penalties, formal agreements and cease and desist orders. In addition, the OCC and the FDIC have specific authority to take \"prompt corrective action,\" depending on our capital levels. For example, currently, we are considered \"well-capitalized\" for prompt corrective action purposes. If we were to be designated by the OCC as \"adequately capitalized,\" we would become subject to additional restrictions and limitations, such as limits on the Bank's ability to take brokered deposits. If we were to be designated by the OCC in one of the lower capital levels (such as \"undercapitalized,\" \"significantly undercapitalized\" or \"critically undercapitalized\"), we would be required to raise additional capital and be subject to progressively more severe restrictions on our operations, management, including the possible replacement of senior executive officers and directors, and capital distributions, and, if we became \"critically undercapitalized,\" to the appointment of a conservator or receiver.. Basel III capital rules generally require insured depository institutions and their holding companies to hold more capital, which could limit our ability to pay dividends, engage in share repurchases and pay discretionary bonuses.. The Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the OCC adopted final rules for the Basel III capital framework that substantially amended the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to us. The rules phase in over time, becoming fully effective in 2019. The rules apply to us as well as to the Bank. Beginning in 2016, a capital conservation buffer began phasing in over three years, ultimately resulting in a requirement of 2.5% on top of the CET1, Tier 1 and total capital requirements, resulting in a required CET1 to risk-weighted assets ratio of 7%, a Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets ratio of 8.5%, and a total capital to risk-weighted assets ratio of 10.5%. Failure to satisfy any of these three capital requirements will result in limits on our ability to pay dividends, engage in share repurchases and pay discretionary bonuses. These rules will also establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that can be utilized for such actions.. 12. Table of Contents. The successful integration of Astoria's business with our business will depend on a number of uncertain factors, may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected and the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the Astoria Merger may not be realized.. On October 2, 2017, we completed the Astoria Merger. Our continued success moving forward will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine and integrate Astoria's business with ours in a manner that permits growth opportunities and does not materially disrupt existing customer relations nor result in decreased revenues due to loss of customers. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the Astoria Merger, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and the value of our common stock. In addition, if we experience difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the Astoria Merger may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, and costs associated with integration may be greater than forecasted. Integration efforts will also divert management's attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on us for an undetermined period. In addition, the actual cost savings of the Astoria Merger could be less than anticipated.. In connection with the Astoria Merger, we assumed Astoria's outstanding debt obligations and preferred stock, and our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital and to meet our obligations under our existing indebtedness.. In connection with the Astoria Merger, we assumed approximately $2.9 billion of Astoria's outstanding indebtedness and Astoria's obligations related to its outstanding preferred stock. Our existing debt, together with any future incurrence of additional indebtedness, and assumption of Astoria's outstanding preferred stock, could have important consequences for our creditors and stockholders. For example, it could:. • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes;. • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures;. • restrict us from paying dividends to our stockholders; and. • increase our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions.. General economic conditions in our market area could adversely affect us.. We are affected by the general economic conditions in the local markets in which we operate. A return to elevated levels of unemployment, declines in the values of real estate, or other events that affect household and/or corporate incomes could impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans in accordance with their terms and reduce demand for our products and services and increase our problem assets, foreclosures and loan losses. Future economic conditions in our market will depend on factors outside of our control, such as political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government, monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, any of which could negatively affect our performance and financial condition.. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would negatively impact our results of operations.. We are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to avoid losses. Credit losses are inherent in the lending business and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Volatility and deterioration in the broader economy may also increase our risk of credit losses. The determination of an appropriate level of allowance for loan losses is an inherently uncertain process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control, and charge-offs may exceed current estimates. We evaluate the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate based upon various factors, including, but not limited to: the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; previous loan loss experience; specific loans that have loss potential; delinquency trends; the estimated fair market value of the collateral; current economic conditions; the views of our regulators; and geographic and industry loan concentrations. If any of our evaluations are incorrect and/or borrower defaults result in losses exceeding our allowance for loan losses, our results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover probable loan losses inherent in our portfolio.. 13. Table of Contents. The need to account for assets at market prices may adversely affect our results of operations.. We report certain assets, including investments and securities, at fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value, we use quoted market prices, when available, or valuation models that utilize market data inputs to estimate fair value. Because we carry these assets on our books at their fair value, we may incur losses even if the assets in question present minimal credit risk. In addition, we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments in future periods with respect to securities in our portfolio. The amount and timing of any impairment recognized will depend on the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the securities and our estimation of the anticipated recovery period.. Changes in the value of goodwill and intangible assets could reduce our earnings.. We account for goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\"), which, in general, requires that goodwill not be amortized, but rather that it be tested for impairment at least annually at the reporting unit level, which requires us to recognize an impairment loss if the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit. Testing for impairment of goodwill and intangible assets is performed annually and involves the identification of reporting units and the estimation of fair values. The estimation of fair values involves a high degree of judgment and subjectivity in the assumptions used. As of December 31, 2017, the fair value of our shares exceeds the recorded book value. Changes in the local and national economy, the federal and state legislative and regulatory environments for financial institutions, the stock market, interest rates and other external factors (such as natural disasters or significant world events) may occur from time to time, often with great unpredictability, and may materially impact the fair value of publicly traded financial institutions, such as us, and could result in an impairment charge at a future date.. Commercial real estate, commercial & industrial and ADC (as defined below) loans expose us to increased risk and earnings volatility.. We consider our commercial real estate loans, commercial & industrial loans and acquisition, development & construction (\"ADC\") loans to be higher risk categories in our loan portfolio. These loans are particularly sensitive to economic conditions. At December 31, 2017, our portfolio of commercial real estate loans, including multi-family loans, totaled $9.0 billion, or 45.0% of total loans, our portfolio of commercial & industrial loans (including traditional commercial & industrial, asset-based lending, payroll finance, warehouse lending, factored receivables, equipment finance and public sector finance) totaled 5.3 billion, or 26.5% of total loans, and our portfolio of ADC loans totaled $282.8 million, or 1.41% of total loans. We plan to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans, other than ADC loans, where we have ceased originations of land acquisition and development loans. We continue to make construction loans on an exception basis.. Commercial real estate loans generally involve a higher degree of credit risk than residential loans because they typically have larger balances and are more affected by adverse conditions in the economy. Because payments on loans secured by commercial real estate often depend on the successful operation and management of the businesses that hold the loans, repayment of such loans may be affected by factors outside the borrower's control, such as adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy or changes in government regulation. In the case of commercial & industrial loans, although we strive to maintain high credit standards and limit exposure to any one borrower, the collateral for these loans often consists of accounts receivable, inventory and equipment. This type of collateral typically does not yield substantial recovery in the event we need to foreclose on it and may rapidly deteriorate, disappear, or be misdirected in advance of foreclosure. This adds to the potential that our charge-offs will be more volatile than we have experienced in the past, which could significantly negatively affect our earnings in any quarter. In addition, some of our ADC loans pose higher risk levels than the levels expected at origination, as projects may stall or sell at prices lower than expected. In addition, many of our borrowers also have more than one commercial real estate or ADC loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship may expose us to significantly greater risk of loss.. Loans in our residential mortgage loan portfolio include interest only loans and loans that have recently converted to principal amortization status.. At December 31, 2017, included in our residential mortgage loan portfolio were $599.7 million of interest only loans and other residential mortgage loans that converted to principal amortization status within the past 24 months.  After conversion to principal amortization status, a borrower's monthly payment may increase substantially and the borrower may not be able to afford the increased debt service, which could result in increased delinquencies and, accordingly, potentially adversely affect our operating results. At December 31, 2017, there were $37.7 million of loans that are interest only or were interest only within the past 24 months that were in non-accrual status.. Our continuing concentration of loans in our primary market area may increase our risk.. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the counties in which we conduct most of our business. Most of our loans and deposits are generated from customers primarily in the New York Metro Market, which includes Manhattan, the boroughs and Long Island, and certain portions of the New York Suburban Market including Rockland, Westchester and Orange. 14. Table of Contents. Counties in New York. We also have a presence in Ulster, Sullivan and Putnam Counties in New York and in Bergen County, New Jersey, as well as other counties in northern New Jersey. Our expansion into New York City and continued growth in Westchester County and Bergen County has helped us diversify our geographic concentration with respect to our lending activities but deterioration in economic conditions in our market area would still adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Environmental liability associated with our lending activities could result in losses.. In the course of business, we may acquire, through foreclosure, properties securing loans that are in default. Particularly in commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that material environmental violations could be discovered on these properties. In this event, we might be required to remedy these violations at the affected properties at our sole cost and expense. The cost of remedial action could substantially exceed the value of affected properties, we may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties and we could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in market interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our financial condition and results of operations are significantly affected by changes in market interest rates. Our results of operations substantially depend on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense that we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. In recent years, our balance sheet has become more asset sensitive because our assets mature or re-price at a faster pace than our liabilities. If interest rates continue at existing levels or decline, net interest income would be adversely affected as asset yields would be expected to decline at faster rates than deposit or borrowing costs. A decline in net interest income may also occur if competitive market pressures limit our ability to maintain or lag deposit costs. Wholesale funding costs may also increase at a faster pace than asset re-pricing.. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and securities. Decreases in interest rates often result in increased prepayments of loans and securities, as borrowers refinance their loans to reduce borrowings costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments in loans or other investments that have interest rates that are comparable to the interest rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or may make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans.. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest earning assets and, in particular, our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of our securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. As of December 31, 2017, our available for sale securities portfolio totaled $3.6 billion. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale could have an adverse effect on stockholders' equity and comprehensive income.. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations and other limitations, which may affect our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders or to repurchase our common stock.. We are a separate legal entity from our subsidiary, the Bank, and we do not have significant operations of our own. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, that the Bank's regulators could assert that payment of dividends or other payments may result in an unsafe or unsound practice. In addition, under the Dodd-Frank Act, we are subjected to consolidated capital requirements and must serve as a source of strength to the Bank. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us or we are required to retain capital or contribute capital to the Bank, we may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock or to repurchase shares of common stock.. A breach, failure or interruption of information security, including as a result of cyber-attacks or other cyber incidents, could negatively affect our earnings or otherwise harm our business.. Increasingly, we depend upon data processing, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks, and over the Internet from both internal sources and external, third-party vendors. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses, all of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. While to date we have not been subject to material cyber-attacks or other cyber incidents, we cannot guarantee all our systems, or the systems of the third-party vendors we rely on, are free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards we and our third-party vendors have instituted. In addition, disruptions to our and our third-party vendors' systems may arise from events that are wholly or partially beyond our and their control (including, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages). If information security is breached, despite the controls we and our third-party vendors have instituted, information can be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial losses or costs to us or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the amount of insurance coverage we have, if any, which would adversely affect our earnings. If significant, sustained or repeated, a system breach, failure or service. 15. Table of Contents. disruption could compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation and our relationships with our partners and customers, result in a loss of customer business, and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to competition from both banks and non-bank companies.. The financial services industry, including commercial banking, is highly competitive, and we encounter strong competition for deposits, loans and other financial services in our market area. Our principal competitors include commercial banks, savings banks and savings and loan associations, mutual funds, money market funds, finance companies, trust companies, insurers, leasing companies, credit unions, mortgage companies, real estate investment trusts (\"REITs\"), private issuers of debt obligations, venture capital firms, private equity funds and suppliers of other investment alternatives, such as securities firms. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same degree of regulation as we are and thus have advantages over us in providing certain services. Further, many of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and have greater access to capital and other resources.. In addition, financial products and services have become increasingly technology-driven. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on the ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technology than we do and may be better equipped to market new technology-driven products and services. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and therefore on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to make opportunistic acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including the risk that regulators will not provide the requisite approvals.. We will continue to evaluate potential acquisitions and may make opportunistic whole or partial acquisitions of other banks, branches, financial institutions, or related businesses from time to time that we expect may further our business strategy, including through participation in FDIC-assisted acquisitions or assumption of deposits from troubled institutions. Any possible acquisition will be subject to regulatory approval, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such approval in a timely manner or at all. Even if we obtain regulatory approval, these acquisitions could involve numerous risks, including lower than expected performance or higher than expected costs, difficulties related to integration, difficulties and costs associated with consolidation and streamlining inefficiencies, diversion of management's attention from other business activities, changes in relationships with customers, and the potential loss of key employees. In addition, we may not be successful in identifying acquisition candidates or preventing deposit erosion or loan quality deterioration at acquired institutions. Competition for acquisitions can be highly competitive, and we may not be able to acquire other institutions on attractive terms. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in completing or will even pursue future acquisitions, or if such transactions are completed, that we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations. Our ability to grow may be limited if we choose not to pursue or are unable to successfully make acquisitions in the future.. The success of our and the Bank's mergers and acquisitions may depend, in part, on our ability to realize the estimated cost savings from combining the acquired businesses with our and the Bank's existing operations. It is possible that the potential cost savings could turn out to be more difficult to achieve than anticipated. The cost savings estimates also depend on our ability to combine the businesses in a manner that permits those cost savings to be realized. If the estimates turn out to be incorrect or if we are unable to successfully execute our strategy for combining businesses, our anticipated cost savings may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected.. Moreover, although we have successfully integrated business acquisitions in recent years, there is no assurance that we will be able to continue to do so in the future, which could delay or prevent the anticipated benefits of future acquisitions from being realized fully or at all. In addition, acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and trading value and thus may result in the dilution of our book value per share.. Various factors may make takeover attempts more difficult to achieve.. The Board of Directors (the\"Board\") currently has no intention to sell control of the Company. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, federal regulations, Delaware law and various other factors may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of us without the consent of our Board. A shareholder may want a takeover attempt to succeed because, for example, a potential acquirer could offer a premium over the then prevailing market price of our common stock. The factors that may discourage takeover attempts or make them more difficult include:. 16. Table of Contents. (a)  Certificate of incorporation, bylaws and statutory provisions.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may make it more difficult and expensive to pursue a takeover attempt that our Board opposes. These provisions also would make it more difficult to remove our current Board, or to elect new directors. These provisions include limitations on voting rights of beneficial owners of more than 10% of our common stock, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations, and plurality voting. Our bylaws also contain provisions regarding the timing and content of stockholder proposals and nominations and qualification for service on the Board.. (b)  Required change in control payments and issuance of stock options and recognition and retention plan shares.. We have entered into employment agreements with executive officers, which require payments to be made to them in the event their employment is terminated following a change in control of us or the Bank. We have issued stock grants and stock options in accordance with the 2004 Provident Bancorp Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, the Sterling Bancorp 2014 Stock Incentive Plan and the Sterling Bancorp 2015 Omnibus Equity and Incentive Plan. In the event of a change in control, the vesting of stock and option grants would accelerate. In 2006, we adopted the Provident Bank & Affiliates Transition Benefit Plan. The plan calls for severance payments ranging from 12 weeks to one year for employees not covered by separate agreements if they are terminated in connection with a change in control of us.. Our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be adversely impacted by issues arising from certain industry deficiencies in foreclosure practices, including delays and challenges in the foreclosure process.. Foreclosure timelines in our principal marketplace are longer than the national average. Residential mortgages, in particular, may present us with foreclosure process issues. For example, residential mortgages were 25.3% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2017, but constituted 53.6% of our non-accrual loans on the same date. Collateral for many of our residential loans is located within the States of New York and New Jersey, where there may continue to be foreclosure process and timeline issues.. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services.. We believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part on the skills of our management team and our ability to motivate and retain these individuals and other key personnel. In particular, we rely on the leadership of our Chief Executive Officer, Jack Kopnisky. The loss of service of Mr. Kopnisky or one or more of our other executive officers or key personnel could reduce our ability to successfully implement our long-term business strategy, our business could suffer, and the value of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. Leadership changes will occur from time to time, and we cannot predict whether significant resignations will occur or whether we will be able to recruit additional qualified personnel. We believe our management team possesses valuable knowledge about the banking industry and our markets and that their knowledge and relationships would be very difficult to replicate. Although the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and other executive officers have entered into employment agreements with us, it is possible that they may not complete the term of their employment agreements or renew them upon expiration. Our success also depends on the experience of our financial center managers and lending officers and on their relationships with the customers and communities they serve. The loss of these key personnel could negatively impact our banking operations. Further, the loss of key personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations."
