[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties we describe below and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before deciding to invest in, sell or retain shares of our common stock.  These are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face.  Other sections of this report may discuss factors that could adversely affect our business.  The retail industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid change.  There may be additional risks and uncertainties that we do not currently know about or that we currently believe are immaterial, or that we have not predicted, which may also harm our business or adversely affect us.  If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially harmed.. Risks Related to the Industry in Which the Company Operates. Constantly Changing Fashion Trends and Consumer Demands.  The strength of our brands and our success depends in significant part upon our ability to anticipate and respond to product and fashion trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner.  There can be no assurance that our products will correspond to the changes in taste and demand or that we will be able to successfully market products that respond to such trends.  If we misjudge the market. 10. for our products, we may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities as to others.  In addition, misjudgments in merchandise selection could adversely affect our image with our customers resulting in lower sales and increased markdown allowances for customers which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Intense Fashion Industry Competition.  The fashion footwear and accessories industry is highly competitive and barriers to entry are low.  Our competitors include specialty companies as well as companies with diversified product lines.  The recent market growth in the sales of fashion footwear and accessories has encouraged the entry of many new competitors and increased competition from established companies.  Many of these competitors, including Nine West, Guess?, Jessica Simpson, Ugg and Aldo, may have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with other fashion footwear and accessories companies.  Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, increased marketing expenditures and loss of market share, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.  We believe effective advertising and marketing, favorable branding of Steve Madden® and our other trademarks, fashionable styling, high quality, competitive pricing and value are the most important competitive factors.  We plan to continue to focus on these elements as we develop new products and businesses.  Our inability to effectively advertise and market our products and respond to customer preferences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Cyclical Nature of the Fashion Industry.  The overall fashion industry is cyclical, and purchasing tends to decline during recessionary periods when disposable income is low.  Likewise, purchases of contemporary shoes and accessories tend to decline during recessionary periods and also may decline at other times.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to grow or even maintain our current level of revenues and earnings, or remain profitable in the future.  Slow growth in the international, national or regional economies and uncertainties regarding future economic prospects, among other things, could affect consumer spending habits. The volatility and disruption of global economic and financial market conditions that began in 2008 has caused lingering declines in consumer confidence and spending in the United States and internationally.  A further deterioration or a continued weakness of economic and financial market conditions for an extended period of time could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. A Rapidly Changing Retail Industry.  In recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership changes.  In the future, retailers in the United States and in foreign markets may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, or realign their affiliations, any of which could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or our licensees' products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry.  Changing shopping patterns, including the rapid expansion of online retail shopping, have adversely affected customer traffic in mall and outlet centers, particularly in North America.  We expect competition in the e-commerce market will intensify.  As a greater portion of consumer expenditures with retailers occurs online and through mobile commerce applications, our brick-and-mortar retail customers who fail to successfully integrate their physical retail stores and digital retail may experience financial difficulties, including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations.  A continuation or worsening of these trends could cause financial difficulties for one or more of our major customers, which, in turn, could substantially increase our credit risk and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  Our future success will be determined, in part, on our ability to manage the impact of the rapidly changing retail environment and identify and capitalize on retail trends, including technology, e-commerce and other process efficiencies that will better service our customers.  If we fail to compete successfully, our businesses, market share, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected.  While such changes in the retail industry to date have not had a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, there can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes.. Economic Uncertainty.  Our opportunities for long-term growth and profitability are accompanied by significant challenges and risks, particularly in the near term.  Specifically, our business is dependent on consumer demand for our products and the purchase of our products by consumers is largely discretionary.  We believe that declining consumer confidence accompanied with the tightening of credit standards, higher energy and food prices and unemployment rates and a decrease in consumers' disposable income has negatively impacted the level of consumer spending for discretionary items during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.  In addition, economic factors such as inflation, higher labor costs, increased transportation costs and higher healthcare and insurance costs may increase our costs of sales and operating expenses.  Changes in economic conditions may have a negative effect on the Company's sales and results of operations during the year ending December 31, 2018 and thereafter.. Legal, Regulatory and Political Risks of a Global Economy.  As a result of our large and growing international operations, we are subject to risks associated with our operations in international markets as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control.  These risks include, among other things:. 11. • the challenge of managing broadly dispersed foreign operations;. • inflationary pressures and economic changes or volatilities in foreign economies;. • the burdens of complying with the laws and regulations of the U.S. and foreign nations;. • additional or increased customs duties, tariffs, taxes and other charges on imports or exports;. • political corruption or instability;. • geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war;. • local business practices that do not conform to legal or ethical guidelines;. • anti-American sentiment in foreign countries in which we operate;. • delays in receipts of our products at our distribution centers due to labor unrest, increasing security requirements or other factors at U.S. or other ports;. • significant fluctuations in the value of the dollar against foreign currencies;. • increased difficulty in protecting our intellectual property in foreign nations;. • restrictions on the transfer of funds between the U.S. and foreign nations; and. • natural disasters in areas in which our businesses, customers, suppliers and licensees are located.. All of these factors could disrupt or limit the countries in which we sell or source our products or significantly increase the cost of operating in or obtaining materials originating from certain countries, result in decreased revenues and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations.. Following the November 2016 U.S. election, the leaders of the U.S. government have increasingly focused on efforts to discourage U.S. corporations from outsourcing manufacturing and production activities to foreign jurisdictions, including through the possibility of imposing tariffs or penalties on goods manufactured outside the United States to attempt to discourage these practices. Changes in tax policy or trade regulations, such as the recently passed Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in the United States, material modifications or withdrawal from existing trade agreements, including the United States' withdrawal from or significant renegotiation of the North America Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), the disallowance of tax deductions on imported merchandise, or the imposition of new tariffs on imported products, could necessitate changes in the way we conduct business, including our product sourcing operations, and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. In June 2016, voters in the United Kingdom approved an advisory referendum, commonly referred to as \"Brexit\", to withdraw from the European Union.  Brexit has created political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the United Kingdom and the European Union, that may endure for years. The withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union could significantly disrupt the free movement of goods, services, and people between the United Kingdom and the European Union, and increase legal and regulatory complexities, all of which could lead to higher costs of conducting business in Europe. Brexit could also encourage similar referendums in other European countries in which we do business. The terms of the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union are uncertain. Its consequences could adversely impact consumer and investor confidence, and the level of consumer purchases of discretionary items and retail products, including our products. All of these factors could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits the payment of bribes to foreign officials to assist in obtaining or retaining business.  We are also subject to anti-corruption laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. Although we have implemented policies and procedures that are designed to promote compliance with such laws, our employees, contractors and agents may take actions that violate our policies and procedures. Any such violation could result in sanctions or other penalties against the Company and have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results.. Changes in Tax Laws Could Have an Adverse Effect Upon Our Financial Results.  We are subject to income tax requirements in various jurisdictions in the United States and internationally. Legislation or other changes in the tax laws of the jurisdictions where we do business could increase our liability and adversely affect our after-tax profitability. In the United States, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was enacted on December 22, 2017, could have a significant impact on our effective tax rate, net deferred tax assets and cash tax expenses. Among other things, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act reduces the U.S. corporate statutory tax rate, eliminates or limits deduction of several expenses which were previously deductible, requires a minimum tax on earnings generated by foreign subsidiaries, imposes a mandatory deemed repatriation tax on undistributed historic earnings of foreign subsidiaries and permits a tax-free repatriation of foreign earnings through a dividends-received deduction. We are currently evaluating the overall impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on our effective tax rate and balance sheet, but expect that the impact may be significant for our fiscal year 2018 and future periods.. Other jurisdictions are contemplating changes or have unpredictable enforcement activity. Increases in applicable tax rates, implementation of new taxes, changes in applicable tax laws and interpretations of these tax laws and actions by tax authorities in jurisdictions in which we operate could reduce our after tax income and have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. 12. We May Be Subject to Additional Tax Liabilities as a Result of Audits by Various Taxing Authorities.  We are subject to the tax laws and regulations of numerous jurisdictions as a result of our international operations.  These tax laws and regulations are highly complex and significant judgment and specialized expertise is required in evaluating and estimating our worldwide provision for income taxes.  We are subject to audit by the taxing authorities in each jurisdiction where we conduct our business., and any one of these jurisdictions may assess additional taxes against us as a result of an audit.  Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, and we undertake to prepare our tax filings in accordance with all applicable tax laws, the final determination with respect to any tax audits, and any related litigation, could be materially different from our estimates or from our historical tax provisions and accruals.  The outcome of any audit or audit-related litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cash flows in the periods for which that determination is made, and may require a restatement of prior financial reports.  In addition, future period earnings may be adversely impacted by litigation costs, settlement payments or interest or penalty assessments.. Risks Related to Our Business. Dependence on Key Personnel.  The growth and success of our Company since its inception more than a quarter century ago is attributable, to a significant degree, to the talents, skills and efforts of our founder and Creative and Design Chief, Steven Madden.  An extended or permanent loss of the services of Mr. Madden could severely disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on the Company.  In addition to Mr. Madden, the Company depends on the contributions of the members of our senior management team. Our senior executives have substantial experience and expertise in our business and industry and have made significant contributions to our growth and success as well.  Competition for executive talent in the apparel, footwear and accessories industries is intense.  While our employment agreements with Mr. Madden and most of our senior executives include a non-compete provision in the event of the termination of employment, the non-compete periods are of limited duration.  Although we believe we have depth within our senior management team, if we were to lose the services of our Creative and Design Chief or any of our senior executives, and especially if any of these individuals were to join a competitor or form a competing company, our business and financial performance could be seriously harmed.  A loss of the skills, industry knowledge, contacts and expertise of our Creative and Design Chief or any of our senior executives could cause a setback to our operating plan and strategy.. Dependence Upon Significant Customers.  Our customers consist principally of better department stores, major department stores, mid-tier department stores, specialty stores, luxury retailers, value priced retailers, national chains, mass merchants and catalog retailers. Certain of our department store customers, including some under common ownership, account for significant portions of our wholesale business.  We generally enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our lines every season and do not enter into long-term agreements with any of our customers.  Therefore, a decision by a significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from us or to change its manner of doing business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Risks Associated with Extending Credit to Customers.  We sell our products primarily to retail stores across the United States and extend credit based on an evaluation of each customer's financial condition, usually without collateral.  Various retailers, including some of our customers, have experienced financial difficulties, which has increased the risk of extending credit to such retailers.  However, our losses due to bad debts have been limited.  Pursuant to the terms of our collection agency agreement, our factor, Rosenthal & Rosenthal, Inc., currently assumes the credit risk related to approximately 84% of our trade accounts receivable.  In addition, we have letters of credit for approximately 3% of our trade accounts receivable.  Still, if any of our customers experience a shortage of liquidity, the risk that the customer's outstanding payables to us would not be paid could cause us to curtail business with the customer or require us to assume more credit risk relating to the customer's account payable.. Risks Associated with Expansion of Retail Business.  Our continued growth depends to a significant degree on whether we are successful in further developing and marketing our brands, and creating new brands, product categories and businesses that are appealing to our customers.  The operation of company-owned Steve Madden, Steven and Superga stores and outlets is a significant part of our growth strategy.  During the year ended December 31, 2017, we opened 13 new full price stores, six new outlet stores and closed two full price stores in the United States. We have plans to open 11 to 13 new retail stores and close 8 to 10 locations in 2018.  Our future expansion plan includes the opening of stores in new geographic markets as well as strengthening existing markets.  New store openings involve substantial investments.  New markets have in the past presented, and will continue to present, competitive and merchandising challenges that are different from those faced by us in our existing markets.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to open new stores, and if opened, that such new stores will be able to achieve sales and profitability levels consistent with management's expectations.  Our retail expansion is dependent on the performance of our wholesale and retail operations, generally, as well as on a number of other factors, including our ability to:. • locate and obtain favorable store sites;. 13. • negotiate favorable lease terms;. • hire, train and retain competent store personnel;. • anticipate the preferences of our retail customers in new geographic areas;. • successfully integrate new stores into our existing operations.. Past comparable store sales results may not be indicative of future results and there can be no assurance that our comparable store sales results will increase or even be maintained in the future.  Also, as we expand the number of our retail stores, we run the risk that our wholesale customers will perceive that we are increasingly competing directly with them, which may lead them to reduce or terminate purchases of our products.. Management of Growth.  The size of our business continues to grow organically and as a result of business acquisitions.  In order to gain from our acquisitions, we must be effective in integrating the businesses acquired into our overall operations.  Further, the expansion of our operations has increased and will continue to increase the demand on our managerial, operational and administrative resources.  In recent years, we have invested significant resources in, among other things, our management information systems and hiring and training of new personnel.  However, in order to manage currently anticipated levels of future demand, we may be required to, among other things, expand our distribution facilities, establish relationships with new manufacturers to produce our product, and continue to expand and improve our financial, management and operating systems.  We may experience difficulty integrating acquired businesses into our operations and may not achieve anticipated synergies from such integration.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage future growth effectively and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Disruptions to Product Delivery Systems and Associated Inventory Management Issues.   A majority of our products for U.S. distribution are shipped to us via ocean freight carriers to ports in California, New Jersey and Texas with the greatest reliance on California ports. The trend-focused nature of the fashion industry and the rapid changes in customer preferences leave us vulnerable to risk of inventory obsolescence.   Our reliance upon ocean freight transportation for the delivery of our inventory exposes us to various inherent risks, including port workers' union disputes and associated strikes, work slow-downs and work stoppages, severe weather conditions, natural disasters and terrorism, any of which could result in delivery delays and inefficiencies, increase our costs and disrupt our business. Any severe and prolonged disruption to ocean freight transportation could force us to use alternate and more expensive transportation systems. For example, during the California port workers' dispute in 2014, we were forced to re-route our merchandise by air transit. Efficient and timely inventory deliveries and proper inventory management are important factors in our operations.  Inventory shortages can adversely affect the timing of shipments to customers and diminish sales and brand loyalty.  Conversely, excess inventories can result in lower gross margins due to the excessive discounts and markdowns that may be necessary to reduce high inventory levels.  Severe and extended delays in the delivery of our inventory or our inability to effectively manage our inventory could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Disruption of Information Technology Systems and Websites.  We are heavily dependent upon our information technology systems to record and process transactions and manage and operate all aspects of our business ranging from product design and testing, production, forecasting, ordering, transportation, sales and distribution, invoicing and accounts receivable management, quick response replenishment, point of sale support and financial management reporting functions.  In addition, we have e-commerce websites.  Given the nature of our business and the significant number of transactions in which we engage on an annual basis, it is essential that we maintain constant operation of our information technology systems and websites and that these systems and our websites operate effectively.  We depend on our in-house information technology employees and third-parties including \"cloud\" service providers to maintain and periodically update and/or upgrade these systems and our websites to support the growth of our business.  Despite our preventative efforts, our information technology systems and websites may, from time to time, be vulnerable to damage or interruption from events such as difficulties in replacing or integrating the systems of acquired businesses, computer viruses, security breaches and power outages.  Cybersecurity attacks are becoming increasingly sophisticated and run the gamut from malicious software and ransomware to electronic security breaches to corruption of data and beyond.  We are continually evaluating, improving and upgrading our information technology systems and websites in an effort to address these concerns.  Any such problems or interruptions could result in loss of valuable business data, our customers' or employees' personal information, disruption of our operations and other adverse impacts to our business and require significant expenditures by us to remediate any such failure, problem or breach.  In addition, we must comply with increasingly complex regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data and an inability to maintain compliance with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal risks and penalties.. We maintain $40 million of network-security insurance coverage, above a $250,000 deductible. This coverage and certain other insurance coverage may reduce our exposure to electronic data theft and sabotage. While we maintain other insurance. 14. coverage aimed at addressing certain of these other risks, there can be no assurance that depending upon the nature of the issue presented, we will have insurance coverage available or that the amounts of coverage will be adequate.. Breach of Customer Privacy.  A routine part of our business includes the gathering, processing and retention of sensitive and confidential information pertaining to our customers, employees and others. Although we believe that our information security and information technology systems and websites allow for the secure storage and transmission of private information regarding our customers and others, including credit card information and personal identification information, we may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent the rapidly-evolving and complex cyber-attacks being unleashed by increasingly sophisticated hackers and data thieves. As a result, our facilities and information technology systems, as well as those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks and breaches, acts of vandalism, ransomware, software viruses and other similar types of malicious activities. Any actual or threatened cyber-attack may cause us to incur costs, including costs related to the hiring of additional computer experts, business interruption, engaging third party cyber security consultants and upgrading our information security technologies. We also may be vulnerable to data and security breaches by us or by persons with whom we have commercial relationships resulting from misplaced or lost data, programming or human error, or other similar events. As a result of recent security breaches at a number of prominent companies, the media and public scrutiny of information security and privacy has become more intense and the regulatory environment has become more uncertain.  Any compromise or breach of our information technology systems that results in the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of a customer's or other person's confidential or proprietary information, whether by the Company or a third party service provider, could result in a loss of confidence and severely damage our reputation and relationship with our customers and others who entrust us with sensitive information, violate applicable privacy and other laws and adversely affect our business, as well as expose the Company to the risk of litigation and significant potential liability.. Foreign Sourcing and Manufacturing.  Virtually all of our products are purchased through arrangements with a number of foreign manufacturers, primarily from China, Italy, Brazil, Mexico, India and Vietnam. During 2017, approximately 93% of our total purchases were from China. Risks inherent in foreign operations including work stoppages, transportation delays and interruptions, social unrest and political upheaval and changes in economic conditions, can result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located, the imposition of additional regulations relating to imports, the imposition of additional duties, taxes and other charges on imports, significant fluctuations of the value of the dollar against foreign currencies, or restrictions on the transfer of funds, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Although we believe that we manage our exposure to the risk that any such economic or political condition will materially affect our ability to purchase products because we are aware of the availability of a variety of materials and alternative sources, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify such alternative materials and/or sources without delay or without greater cost to us.  Our inability to identify and secure alternative sources of supply in this situation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Impact of Custom Duties and Other Import Regulations.  Virtually all of our products are imported and subject to United States custom duties.  In addition, over time we have increased our sales of products outside of the United States.  The United States and the countries in which our products are produced or sold, from time to time, may impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions on imports or exports, may adversely adjust prevailing quotas, duties or tariff levels, or may impose sanctions in the form of additional duties to remedy perceived illegal actions.  The current political landscape has introduced greater uncertainty with respect to future tax and trade regulations for United States companies like ours with significant business and sourcing operations outside the United States.  We cannot predict whether, and to what extent, there may be changes to international trade agreements or whether quotas, duties, tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions will be changed or imposed by the United States or by other countries.  If we or our suppliers or licensees are unable to source raw materials or finished goods from the countries where we or they wish to purchase them, either because of such regulatory changes or for any other reason, or if the cost of doing so should increase, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Manufacturers' Inability to Produce Our Goods in a Timely Manner or Meet Quality Standards.  As is common in the footwear and accessories industries, we contract with foreign manufactures who produce virtually all of our products to our specifications.  We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities; therefore, we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture of all of our products.  The inability of a manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items, which, in turn, could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries, a reduction in purchase prices and, ultimately, termination of a customer relationship, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. 15. SEC Rules Relating to \"Conflict Minerals\" Require the Company to Incur Additional Expenses and Could Adversely Affect our Business. The SEC has promulgated final rules mandated by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act requiring the disclosure of the use of tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold, known as \"conflict minerals,\" included in products either manufactured by public companies or as to which public companies have contracted for the manufacture.  These rules, adopted in an effort to prevent inadvertent support of armed conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo and certain adjoining countries (collectively, the \"DRC\"), require companies to investigate their supply chains to determine whether these minerals are present in their products and, if so, from where the minerals originate.  The rules also require disclosure and annual reporting as to whether or not conflict minerals, if used in the manufacture of the products offered, originate from the DRC. We currently require our manufacturers to comply with policies addressing legal and ethical concerns relating to labor, employment, political and social matters including restrictions on the use of conflict minerals. Violation of these policies by our manufacturers could harm our reputation, disrupt our supply chain and/or increase our cost of goods sold. Additionally, violation of any of these policies by our manufacturers could cause us to face disqualification as a supplier for our customers and suffer reputational challenges. Due to the complexity of our supply chain, compliance with the rules requires significant efforts from a cross-operational team and diverts our management and personnel and results in potential costs of additional staff.  Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our sales, net earnings, business and financial condition and results of operations.. Difficulty in Locating Replacement Manufacturers.  Although we enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season specifying a time frame for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications and other standard industry provisions, we do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer.  As a consequence, any of these manufacturing relationships may be terminated, by either party, at any time.  In addition, we may seek replacement manufacturers for various reasons, including a significant increase in the prices we are required to pay to existing manufacturers of our goods.  Although we believe that other facilities are available for the manufacture of our products, there can be no assurance that such facilities would be available to us on an immediate basis, if at all, or be able to meet our quality standards and delivery requirements, or that the costs charged to us by such manufacturers would not be significantly greater than those presently paid.. Manufacturers' Failure to Use Acceptable Labor Practices and Comply with Local Laws and Other Standards.  Our products are manufactured by numerous independent manufacturers outside of the United States.  We also have license agreements that permit our licensees to manufacture or contract to manufacture products using our trademarks.  We impose, and require that our licensees impose, on these manufacturers environmental, health, and safety standards for the benefit of their labor force.  In addition, we require these manufacturers to comply with applicable standards for product safety. However, we do not control our independent manufacturers or licensing partners or their labor, product safety and other business practices and, from time to time, our independent manufacturers may not comply with such standards or applicable local law or our licensees may not require their manufacturers to comply with such standards or applicable local law.  The violation of such standards and laws by one of the independent manufacturers with whom we contract or by one of our licensing partners, or the divergence of a manufacturer's or a licensing partner's labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could harm our reputation, result in a product recall or require us to curtail our relationship with and locate a replacement for such manufacturer, which, as noted in the immediately preceding risk factor, could be challenging.  Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Seasonal and Quarterly Fluctuations.  Our results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and are affected by a variety of factors, including:. • the timing of holidays;. • weather conditions;. • the timing of larger shipments of product;. • market acceptance of our products;. • the mix, pricing and presentation of the products offered and sold;. • the hiring and training of additional personnel;. • inventory write downs for obsolescence;. • the cost of materials;. • the product mix between wholesale, retail and licensing businesses;. • the incurrence of other operating costs; and. • factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, declines in consumer confidence and actions of competitors.. In addition, we expect that our sales and operating results may be significantly impacted by the opening of new retail stores and the introduction of new products.  Accordingly, the results of operations in any quarter will not necessarily be indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year or any future quarter.. 16. Extreme or Unseasonable Weather Conditions in Locations in Which We or Our Customers and Suppliers are Located Could Adversely Affect our Business.  Our corporate headquarters and principal operational locations, including retail, distribution and warehousing facilities, may be subject to natural disasters and other severe weather and geological events that could disrupt our operations. The occurrence of such natural events may result in sudden disruptions in business conditions of the local economies affected, as well as of the regional and global economies, and may result in decreased demand for our products and disruptions in our management functions, sales channels and manufacturing and distribution networks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Extreme weather events and changes in weather patterns can also influence customer trends and shopping habits.  Extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season may diminish demand for our seasonal merchandise.  Heavy snowfall, hurricanes or other severe weather events in the areas in which our retail stores and the retail stores of our wholesale customers are located may decrease customer traffic in those stores and reduce our sales and profitability.  If severe weather events force closure of or disrupt operations at the distribution centers we use for our merchandise, we could incur higher costs and experience longer lead times to distribute our products to our retail stores, wholesale customers or e-commerce customers.  If prolonged, such extreme or unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Inadequate Trademark Protections.  We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are of major significance to our success and our competitive position and consider some of our trademarks, such as Steve Madden, to be integral to our business and among our most valuable assets.  Accordingly, we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks on a worldwide basis.  Nevertheless, policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, expensive and time consuming and there can be no assurance that the actions taken by us to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products on the basis that our products violate the trademarks and proprietary rights of others.  Moreover, no assurance can be given that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve such conflicts.  We could incur substantial costs in legal actions relating to our use of intellectual property or the use of our intellectual property by others.  In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.  Our failure to establish and then protect such proprietary rights from unlawful and improper utilization could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Our Licensees' Conduct Could Harm our Business.  We license to others the rights to produce and market certain products that are sold under our trademarks.  Although we retain significant control over our licensees' products and advertising, we rely on our licensees for operational and financial control over their businesses.  If the quality, image or distribution of our licensed products diminish, customer acceptance of and demand for our brands and products could decline.  This could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.  In fiscal year 2017, approximately 76% of our net royalties were derived from our top five licensed product lines.  A decrease in customer demand for any of these product lines could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  Although we believe that in most circumstances we could replace existing licensees if necessary, our inability to do so effectively or for any period of time could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.. Litigation and Other Legal Proceedings.  We are involved in various claims, litigations and other legal and regulatory proceedings and governmental investigations that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business.  Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and such other proceedings and investigations, we cannot predict with accuracy the ultimate outcome of any such matters.  An unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the amount of insurance coverage we maintain to address such matters may be inadequate to cover these or other claims.  In addition, any significant litigation, investigation or proceeding, regardless of its merits, could divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations.  See Item 3 \"Legal Proceedings,\" below for additional information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved.. Declines in Our Stock Price Due to Inaccurate Predictions.  The trading price of our common stock periodically may rise or fall based on the accuracy of predictions of our future performance.  As one of our primary objectives, we strive to maximize the long-term strength, growth and profitability of our Company, rather than to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter.  We believe that this longer-term goal is in the best interests of the Company and our stockholders, but recognize that it may be helpful to our stockholders and potential investors for us to provide guidance as to our quarterly and annual forecast of net sales and earnings.  Although we endeavor to provide meaningful and considered guidance at the time it is provided and generally expect to provide updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter, actual results may differ from our predictions as the guidance is based on assumptions and expectations that may or may not come to pass and, as such, we assume no responsibility to update any of our forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise.  If and when we announce actual results that differ from those that have been predicted by us, the market price of our common stock could be adversely. 17. affected.  Investors who rely on these predictions in making investment decisions with respect to our common stock do so at their own risk.  We take no responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such changes in the price of our common stock.. In addition, at any given time outside securities analysts may follow our financial results and issue reports that discuss our historical financial results and the analysts' predictions of our future performance, which our stockholders and potential investors may choose to rely on in making investment decisions.  These analysts' predictions are based upon their own opinions and are often different from our own forecasts.  Our stock price could decline if our results are below the estimates or expectations of these outside analysts.. Exposure to Foreign Currency Fluctuations.  We make the majority of our purchases in U.S. dollars.  However, we source substantially all of our products overseas and, as such, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies.  Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we and our foreign competitors sell products in the same market.  We use forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. However, no hedging strategy can completely insulate us from foreign exchange risk. We are also exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our financial statements due to the translation of operating results and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity."
