[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Investing in our Common Units involves a high degree of risk. The most significant risks include those described below; however, additional risks that we currently do not know about may also impair our business operations. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information in this Annual Report. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In this case, the trading price of our Common Units would likely decline and you might lose part or all of the value in our Common Units.  You should carefully consider the specific risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report.  Some factors in this section are Forward-Looking Statements.  See \"Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" above.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Since weather conditions may adversely affect demand for propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas, our results of operations and financial condition are vulnerable to warm winters.. Weather conditions have a significant impact on the demand for propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas for both heating and agricultural purposes.  Many of our customers rely on propane, fuel oil or natural gas primarily as a heating source.  The volume of propane, fuel oil and natural gas sold is at its highest during the six-month peak heating season of October through March and is directly affected by the severity of the winter.  Typically, we sell approximately two-thirds of our retail propane volume and approximately three-fourths of our retail fuel oil volume during the peak heating season.. Actual weather conditions can vary substantially from year to year, significantly affecting our financial performance.  For example, average temperatures in our service territories were 15%, 17% and 2% warmer than normal for fiscal 2017, fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015, respectively, as measured by the number of heating degree days reported by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (\"NOAA\").  Furthermore, variations in weather in one or more regions in which we operate can significantly affect the total volume of propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas we sell and, consequently, our results of operations.  Variations in the weather in the northeast, where we have a greater concentration of propane accounts and substantially all of our fuel oil and natural gas operations, generally have a greater impact on our operations than variations in the weather in other markets.  We can give no assurance that the weather conditions in any quarter or year will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, or that our available cash will be sufficient to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness and distributions to Unitholders.. Sudden increases in our costs to acquire and transport propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas due to, among other things, our inability to obtain adequate supplies from our usual suppliers, or our inability to obtain adequate supplies of such products from alternative suppliers, may adversely affect our operating results.. Our profitability in the retail propane, fuel oil and refined fuels and natural gas businesses is largely dependent on the difference between our costs to acquire and transport product and retail sales price.  Propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas are commodities, and the availability of those products, and the unit prices we need to pay to acquire and transport those products, are subject to volatile changes in response to changes in production and supply or other market conditions over which we have no control, including the severity of winter weather, the price and availability of competing alternative energy sources, competing demands for the products (including for export) and infrastructure (including highway, rail, pipeline and refinery) constraints.  Our supply of these products from our usual sources may be interrupted due to these and other reasons that are beyond our control, necessitating the transportation of product, if it is available at all, by truck, rail car or other means from other suppliers in other areas, with resulting delay in receipt and delivery to customers and increased expense.  As a result, our costs of acquiring and transporting alternative. 8. supplies of these products to our facilities might be materially higher at least on a short-term basis.  Since we may not be able to pass on to our customers immediately, or in full, all increases in our wholesale and transportation costs of propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas, these increases could reduce our profitability.  In addition, our inability to obtain sufficient supplies of propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas in order for us to fully meet our customer demand for these products on a timely basis could adversely affect our revenues, and consequently our profitability.. In general, product supply contracts permit suppliers to charge posted prices at the time of delivery or the current prices established at major supply points, including Mont Belvieu, Texas, and Conway, Kansas.  We engage in transactions to manage the price risk associated with certain of our product costs from time to time in an attempt to reduce cost volatility and to help ensure availability of product.  We can give no assurance that future increases in our costs to acquire and transport propane, fuel oil and natural gas will not have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flow, or that our available cash will be sufficient to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness and distributions to our Unitholders.. High prices for propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas can lead to customer conservation, resulting in reduced demand for our product.. Prices for propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas are subject to fluctuations in response to changes in wholesale prices and other market conditions beyond our control.  Therefore, our average retail sales prices can vary significantly within a heating season or from year to year as wholesale prices fluctuate with propane, fuel oil and natural gas commodity market conditions.  During periods of high propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas product costs our selling prices generally increase.  High prices can lead to customer conservation, resulting in reduced demand for our product.. Because of the highly competitive nature of the retail propane and fuel oil businesses, we may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition.. The retail propane and fuel oil industries are mature and highly competitive.  We expect overall demand for propane and fuel oil to be relatively flat to moderately declining over the next several years.  Year-to-year industry volumes of propane and fuel oil are expected to be primarily affected by weather patterns and from competition intensifying during warmer than normal winters, as well as from the impact of a sustained higher commodity price environment on customer conservation and the impact of perceived uncertainty about the economy on customer buying habits.. Propane and fuel oil compete with electricity, natural gas and other existing and future sources of energy, some of which are, or may in the future be, less costly for equivalent energy value.  For example, natural gas currently is a significantly less expensive source of energy than propane and fuel oil on an equivalent BTU basis.  As a result, except for some industrial and commercial applications, propane and fuel oil are generally not economically competitive with natural gas in areas where natural gas pipelines already exist.  The gradual expansion of the nation's natural gas distribution systems has made natural gas available in many areas that previously depended upon propane or fuel oil.  We expect this trend to continue, and, with the increasingly abundant supply of natural gas from domestic sources, perhaps accelerate.  Propane and fuel oil compete to a lesser extent with each other due to the cost of converting from one to the other.. In addition to competing with other sources of energy, our propane and fuel oil businesses compete with other distributors of those respective products principally on the basis of price, service and availability.  Competition in the retail propane business is highly fragmented and generally occurs on a local basis with other large full-service multi-state propane marketers, thousands of smaller local independent marketers and farm cooperatives.  Our fuel oil business competes with fuel oil distributors offering a broad range of services and prices, from full service distributors to those offering delivery only.  In addition, our existing fuel oil customers, unlike our existing propane customers, generally own their own tanks, which can result in intensified competition for these customers.. As a result of the highly competitive nature of the retail propane and fuel oil businesses, our growth within these industries depends on our ability to acquire other retail distributors, open new customer service centers, add new customers and retain existing customers.  We can give no assurance that we will be able to acquire other retail distributors, add new customers and retain existing customers.. Energy efficiency, general economic conditions and technological advances have affected and may continue to affect demand for propane and fuel oil by our retail customers.. The national trend toward increased conservation and technological advances, including installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces and other heating devices, has adversely affected the demand for propane and fuel oil by our retail customers which, in turn, has resulted in lower sales volumes to our customers. In addition, perceived uncertainty about the economy may lead to additional conservation by retail customers seeking to further reduce their heating costs, particularly during periods of sustained higher commodity prices.  Future technological advances in heating, conservation and energy generation and continued economic weakness may adversely affect our volumes sold, which, in turn, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. 9. Current conditions in the global capital and credit markets, and general economic pressures, may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.. Our business and operating results are materially affected by worldwide economic conditions.  Current conditions in the global capital and credit markets and general economic pressures have led to wavering consumer and business confidence and increased market volatility, which have affected business activity generally.  This situation, especially when coupled with increasing energy prices, may cause our customers to experience cash flow shortages which in turn may lead to delayed or cancelled plans to purchase our products, and affect the ability of our customers to pay for our products.  In addition, disruptions in the U.S. residential mortgage market (as a result of changes in tax laws or otherwise) and the rate of mortgage foreclosures may adversely affect retail customer demand for our products (in particular, products used for home heating and home comfort equipment) and our business and results of operations.. Our operating results and ability to generate sufficient cash flow to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, and to pay distributions to Unitholders, may be affected by our ability to continue to control expenses.. The propane and fuel oil industries are mature and highly fragmented with competition from other multi-state marketers and thousands of smaller local independent marketers.  Demand for propane and fuel oil is expected to be affected by many factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the severity of weather conditions during the peak heating season, customer conservation driven by high energy costs and other economic factors, as well as technological advances impacting energy efficiency.  Accordingly, our propane and fuel oil sales volumes and related gross margins may be negatively affected by these factors beyond our control.  Our operating profits and ability to generate sufficient cash flow may depend on our ability to continue to control expenses in line with sales volumes.  We can give no assurance that we will be able to continue to control expenses to the extent necessary to reduce the effect on our profitability and cash flow from these factors.. The risk of terrorism, political unrest and the current hostilities in the Middle East or other energy producing regions may adversely affect the economy and the price and availability of propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas.. Terrorist attacks, political unrest and the current hostilities in the Middle East or other energy producing regions may adversely impact the price and availability of propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas, as well as our results of operations, our ability to raise capital and our future growth.  The impact that the foregoing may have on our industry in general, and on us in particular, is not known at this time.  An act of terror could result in disruptions of crude oil or natural gas supplies and markets (the sources of propane and fuel oil), and our infrastructure facilities could be direct or indirect targets.  Terrorist activity may also hinder our ability to transport propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels if our means of supply transportation, such as rail or pipeline, become damaged as a result of an attack.  A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could adversely affect our revenues or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism could also affect our ability to raise capital.  Terrorist activity, political unrest and hostilities in the Middle East or other energy producing regions could likely lead to increased volatility in prices for propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels and natural gas.  We have opted to purchase insurance coverage for terrorist acts within our property and casualty insurance programs, but we can give no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate to fully compensate us for any losses to our business or property resulting from terrorist acts.. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by governmental regulation and associated environmental and health and safety costs.. Our business is subject to a wide and ever increasing range of federal, state and local laws and regulations related to environmental and health and safety matters including those concerning, among other things, the investigation and remediation of contaminated soil, groundwater and other environmental media, and the transportation of hazardous materials.  These requirements are complex, changing and tend to become more stringent over time.  In addition, we are required to maintain various permits that are necessary to operate our facilities, some of which are material to our operations.  There can be no assurance that we have been, or will be, at all times in complete compliance with all legal, regulatory and permitting requirements or that we will not incur significant costs in the future relating to such requirements.  Violations could result in penalties, or the curtailment or cessation of operations.. Moreover, currently unknown environmental issues, such as the discovery of additional contamination, may result in significant additional expenditures, and potentially significant expenditures also could be required to comply with future changes to environmental laws and regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof. Such expenditures, if required, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 10. We are subject to operating hazards and litigation risks that could adversely affect our operating results to the extent not covered by insurance.. Our operations are subject to all operating hazards and risks normally associated with handling, storing and delivering combustible liquids such as propane, fuel oil and other refined fuels.  We have been, and are likely to continue to be, a defendant in various legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, both as a result of these operating hazards and risks and as a result of other aspects of our business.  We are self-insured for general and product, workers' compensation and automobile liabilities up to predetermined amounts above which third-party insurance applies.  We cannot guarantee that our insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal injury and property damage or that these levels of insurance will be available at economical prices, or that all legal matters that arise will be covered by our insurance programs.. If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms or effectively integrate such acquisitions into our operations, our financial performance may be adversely affected.. The retail propane and fuel oil industries are mature.  We expect overall demand for propane and fuel oil to be relatively flat to moderately declining over the next several years.  With respect to our retail propane business, it may be difficult for us to increase our aggregate number of retail propane customers except through acquisitions.  As a result, we expect the success of our financial performance to depend, in part, upon our ability to acquire other retail propane and fuel oil distributors or other energy-related businesses and to successfully integrate them into our existing operations and to make cost saving changes.  The competition for acquisitions is intense and we can make no assurance that we will be able to acquire other propane and fuel oil distributors or other energy-related businesses on economically acceptable terms or, if we do, that we can integrate the acquired operations effectively.. The adoption of climate change legislation could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the products and services we provide.. In December 2009, the EPA issued an \"Endangerment Finding\" under the Clean Air Act, determining that emissions of GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases may be contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes.  Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs and require reporting by certain regulated facilities on an annual basis.  The EPA's authority to regulate GHGs has been upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court.. Both Houses of the United States Congress also have considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs.  Although Congress has not yet enacted federal climate change legislation, numerous states and municipalities have adopted laws and policies on climate change.. The adoption of federal, state or local climate change legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could require us to incur increased capital and operating costs, with resulting impact on product price and demand.  We cannot predict whether or in what form climate change legislation provisions and renewable energy standards may be enacted.  In addition, a possible consequence of climate change is increased volatility in seasonal temperatures.  It is difficult to predict how the market for our fuels would be affected by increased temperature volatility, although if there is an overall trend of warmer temperatures, it could adversely affect our business.. Our use of derivative contracts involves credit and regulatory risk and may expose us to financial loss.. From time to time, we enter into hedging transactions to reduce our business risks arising from fluctuations in commodity prices and interest rates.  Hedging transactions expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including if the other party to the contract defaults on its obligations to us or if there is a change in the expected differential between the price of the underlying commodity or financial metric provided in the hedging agreement and the actual amount received.. Transactional, margin, capital, recordkeeping, reporting, clearing and other requirements imposed on parties to derivatives transactions as a result of legislation and related rulemaking may increase our operational and transactional cost of entering into and maintaining derivatives contracts and may adversely affect the number and/or creditworthiness of derivatives counterparties available to us. If we were to reduce our use of derivatives as a result of regulatory burdens or otherwise, our results of operations could become more volatile and our cash flow could be less predictable.. 11. Because we depend on particular management information systems to effectively manage all aspects of our delivery of propane, a failure in our operational systems or cyber security attacks on any of our facilities, or those of third parties, may adversely affect our financial results.. We depend on our management information systems to process orders, manage inventory and accounts receivable collections, maintain distributor and customer information, maintain cost-efficient operations and assist in delivering our products on a timely basis. In addition, our staff of management information systems professionals relies heavily on the support of several key personnel and vendors.  Any disruption in the operation of those management information systems, loss of employees knowledgeable about such systems, termination of our relationship with one or more of these key vendors or failure to continue to modify such systems effectively as our business expands could negatively affect our business.. If any of our financial, operational, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, our financial results could be adversely affected.  Our financial results also could be adversely affected if an employee or third party causes our operational systems to fail, either as a result of inadvertent error or by deliberately tampering with or manipulating our operational systems, including through ransomware or phishing.  In addition, dependence upon automated systems may further increase the risk that operational system flaws, employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect or recoup, including damage to our reputation.  To the extent customer data is hacked or misappropriated, we could be subject to liability to affected persons.. Risks Inherent in the Ownership of Our Common Units. Cash distributions are not guaranteed and may fluctuate with our performance and other external factors.. Cash distributions on our Common Units are not guaranteed, and depend primarily on our cash flow and our cash on hand. Because they are not directly dependent on profitability, which is affected by non-cash items, our cash distributions might be made during periods when we record losses and might not be made during periods when we record profits.. The amount of cash we generate may fluctuate based on our performance and other factors, including:. •  the impact of the risks inherent in our business operations, as described above;. •  required principal and interest payments on our debt and restrictions contained in our debt instruments;. •  issuances of debt and equity securities;. •  our ability to control expenses;. •  fluctuations in working capital;. •  capital expenditures; and. •  financial, business and other factors, a number of which will be beyond our control.. Our Partnership Agreement gives our Board of Supervisors broad discretion in establishing cash reserves for, among other things, the proper conduct of our business. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash available for distributions.. We have substantial indebtedness. Our debt agreements may limit our ability to make distributions to Unitholders, as well as our financial flexibility.. As of September 30, 2017, our long-term debt consisted of $525.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.5% senior notes due June 1, 2024, $250.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.75% senior notes due March 1, 2025, $350.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.875% senior notes due March 1, 2027 and $162.6 million outstanding under our $500 million senior secured revolving credit facility. The payment of principal and interest on our debt will reduce the cash available to make distributions on our Common Units.  In addition, we will not be able to make any distributions to holders of our Common Units if there is, or after giving effect to such distribution, there would be, an event of default under the indentures governing the senior notes and the senior secured revolving credit facility.  The amount of distributions that we may make to holders of our Common Units is limited by the senior notes, and the amount of distributions that the Operating Partnership may make to us is limited by our revolving credit facility.. The revolving credit facility and the senior notes both contain various restrictive and affirmative covenants applicable to us, the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries, respectively, including (i) restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, and (ii) restrictions on certain liens, investments, guarantees, loans, advances, payments, mergers, consolidations, distributions, sales of assets and other transactions.  The revolving credit facility contains certain financial covenants: (a) requiring our consolidated interest coverage ratio, as defined, to be not less than 2.5 to 1.0 as of the end of any fiscal quarter; (b) prohibiting our total consolidated. 12. leverage ratio, as defined, from being greater than 5.95 to 1.0 for each fiscal quarter ending in June, September and December 2017, and March and June 2018, 5.75 to 1.0 for the fiscal quarter ending in September 2018, and 5.5 to 1.0 for the fiscal quarter ending in December 2018 and for each fiscal quarter thereafter; and (c) prohibiting the senior secured consolidated leverage ratio, as defined, of the Operating Partnership from being greater than 3.0 to 1.0 as of the end of any fiscal quarter.  Under the indentures governing the senior notes, we are generally permitted to make cash distributions equal to available cash, as defined, as of the end of the immediately preceding quarter, if no event of default exists or would exist upon making such distributions, and our consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio, as defined, is greater than 1.75 to 1.  We and the Operating Partnership were in compliance with all covenants and terms of the senior notes and the revolving credit facility as of September 30, 2017.. The amount and terms of our debt may also adversely affect our ability to finance future operations and capital needs, limit our ability to pursue acquisitions and other business opportunities and make our results of operations more susceptible to adverse economic and industry conditions.  In addition to our outstanding indebtedness, we may in the future require additional debt to finance acquisitions or for general business purposes; however, credit market conditions may impact our ability to access such financing.  If we are unable to access needed financing or to generate sufficient cash from operations, we may be required to abandon certain projects or curtail capital expenditures.  Additional debt, where it is available, could result in an increase in our leverage.  Our ability to make principal and interest payments depends on our future performance, which is subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control.  As interest expense increases (whether due to an increase in interest rates and/or the size of aggregate outstanding debt), our ability to fund distributions on our Common Units may be impacted, depending on the level of revenue generation, which is not assured.. Unitholders have limited voting rights.. A Board of Supervisors governs our operations.  Unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business, including the right to elect the members of our Board of Supervisors every three years and the right to vote on the removal of the general partner.. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our Unitholders.. Some provisions of our Partnership Agreement may discourage, delay or prevent third parties from acquiring us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our Unitholders.  For example, our Partnership Agreement contains a provision, based on Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, that generally prohibits the Partnership from engaging in a business combination with a 15% or greater Unitholder for a period of three years following the date that person or entity acquired at least 15% of our outstanding Common Units, unless certain exceptions apply.  Additionally, our Partnership Agreement sets forth advance notice procedures for a Unitholder to nominate a Supervisor to stand for election, which procedures may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of Supervisors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Partnership.  These nomination procedures may not be revised or repealed, and inconsistent provisions may not be adopted, without the approval of the holders of at least 66-2/3% of the outstanding Common Units.  These provisions may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our Board of Supervisors, including discouraging attempts that might result in a premium over the market price of the Common Units held by our Unitholders.. Unitholders may not have limited liability in some circumstances.. A number of states have not clearly established limitations on the liabilities of limited partners for the obligations of a limited partnership.  Our Unitholders might be held liable for our obligations as if they were general partners if:. •  a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in the state but had not complied with the state's limited partnership statute; or. •  Unitholders' rights to act together to remove or replace the General Partner or take other actions under our Partnership Agreement are deemed to constitute \"participation in the control\" of our business for purposes of the state's limited partnership statute.. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions.. Unitholders will not be liable for assessments in addition to their initial capital investment in the Common Units. Under specific circumstances, however, Unitholders may have to repay to us amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Delaware law, we may not make a distribution to Unitholders if the distribution causes our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and nonrecourse liabilities are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that a limited partner who receives a distribution of this kind and knew at the time of the distribution that the distribution violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount for three years from the distribution date.  Under Delaware law, an assignee who becomes a substituted limited partner of a. 13. limited partnership is liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership.  However, such an assignee is not obligated for liabilities unknown to him at the time he or she became a limited partner if the liabilities could not be determined from the partnership agreement.. If we issue additional limited partner interests or other equity securities as consideration for acquisitions or for other purposes, the relative voting strength of each Unitholder will be diminished over time due to the dilution of each Unitholder's interests and additional taxable income may be allocated to each Unitholder.. Our Partnership Agreement generally allows us to issue additional limited partner interests and other equity securities without the approval of our Unitholders. Therefore, when we issue additional Common Units or securities ranking above or on a parity with the Common Units, each Unitholder's proportionate partnership interest will decrease, and the amount of cash distributed on each Common Unit and the market price of Common Units could decrease.  The issuance of additional Common Units will also diminish the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding Common Unit.  In addition, the issuance of additional Common Units, or other equity securities, will, over time, result in the allocation of additional taxable income, representing built-in gains at the time of the new issuance, to those Unitholders that existed prior to the new issuance.. Tax Risks to Unitholders. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") could treat us as a corporation, which would substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to Unitholders.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our Common Units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  If less than 90% of the gross income of a publicly traded partnership, such as Suburban Propane Partners, L.P., for any taxable year is \"qualifying income\" within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code, that partnership will be taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes for that taxable year and all subsequent years.. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then we would pay U.S. federal income tax on our income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay additional state income tax at varying rates.  Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to Unitholders would be substantially reduced.  Treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to Unitholders and thus would likely result in a substantial reduction in the value of our Common Units.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our Common Units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations thereof, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including Suburban Propane Partners, L.P., or an investment in our Common Units may be modified by legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations thereof at any time. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws or interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively.  Moreover, any such modification could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception that allows publicly traded partnerships that generate qualifying income to be treated as partnerships (rather than as corporations) for U.S. federal income tax purposes, affect or cause us to change our business activities, or affect the tax consequences of an investment in our Common Units.. Congress has publicly stated that one of its top legislative priorities is significant reform of the Internal Revenue Code.   Proposed legislation has included substantial revisions to the Internal Revenue Code, such as:  (i) a special tax rate applicable for certain qualified business income derived by partnerships and other pass-through entities; (ii) immediate expensing of certain capital expenses and (iii) significant limitations on deductibility of interest.  We are unable to predict whether any form of tax reform bill will become law and, if so, what provisions may be included in a final tax reform bill, the timing of any final tax reform bill and whether any other proposals or changes to current U.S. tax laws will ultimately be enacted.   The impact of any potential tax reform on us and the value of an investment in our Common Units is uncertain.. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation.. 14. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it (and some states) may collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from the Partnership, in which case cash available to service debt or to pay distributions to our unitholders, if and when resumed, might be substantially reduced.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it may collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us.  We will generally have the ability to shift any such tax liability to our unitholders in accordance with their interests in us during the year under audit, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so (and will choose to do so) under all circumstances, or that we will be able to (or choose to) effect corresponding shifts in state income or similar tax liability resulting from the IRS adjustment in states in which we do business in the year under audit or in the adjustment year.  If we make payments of taxes, penalties and interest resulting from audit adjustments, cash available to service debt or to resume payment of distributions to our unitholders could be reduced.. A successful IRS contest of the U.S. federal income tax positions we take may adversely affect the market for our Common Units, and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our Unitholders.. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us.  The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take.  It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take.  A court may not agree with the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our Common Units and the price at which they trade.  In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our Unitholders because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution.. A Unitholder's tax liability could exceed cash distributions on its Common Units.. Because our Unitholders are treated as partners, a Unitholder is required to pay U.S. federal income taxes and state and local income taxes on its allocable share of our income, without regard to whether we make cash distributions to the Unitholder.  We cannot guarantee that a Unitholder will receive cash distributions equal to its allocable share of our taxable income or even the tax liability to it resulting from that income.. Ownership of Common Units may have adverse tax consequences for tax-exempt organizations and foreign investors.. Investment in Common Units by certain tax-exempt entities and foreign persons raises issues specific to them.  For example, virtually all of our taxable income allocated to organizations exempt from U.S. federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and thus will be taxable to the Unitholder.  Distributions to foreign persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and foreign persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income.  Tax-exempt organizations and foreign persons should consult, and should depend on, their own tax advisors in analyzing the U.S. federal, state, local and foreign income tax and other tax consequences of the acquisition, ownership or disposition of Common Units.. The ability of a Unitholder to deduct its share of our losses may be limited.. Various limitations may apply to the ability of a Unitholder to deduct its share of our losses.  For example, in the case of taxpayers subject to the passive activity loss rules (generally, individuals and closely held corporations), any losses generated by us will only be available to offset our future income and cannot be used to offset income from other activities, including other passive activities or investments.  Such unused losses may be deducted when the Unitholder disposes of its entire investment in us in a fully taxable transaction with an unrelated party, such as a sale by a Unitholder of all of its Common Units in the open market.  A Unitholder's share of any net passive income may be offset by unused losses from us carried over from prior years, but not by losses from other passive activities, including losses from other publicly-traded partnerships.. The tax gain or loss on the disposition of Common Units could be different than expected.. A Unitholder who sells Common Units will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and its adjusted tax basis in the Common Units.  Prior distributions in excess of cumulative net taxable income allocated to a Common Unit which decreased a Unitholder's tax basis in that Common Unit will, in effect, become taxable income if the Common Unit is sold at a price greater than the Unitholder's tax basis in that Common Unit, even if the price is less than the original cost of the Common Unit. A portion of the amount realized, if the amount realized exceeds the Unitholder's adjusted basis in that Common Unit, will likely be characterized as ordinary income.  Furthermore, should the IRS successfully contest some conventions used by us, a Unitholder could recognize more gain on the sale of Common Units than would be the case under those conventions, without the benefit of decreased income in prior years.  In addition, because the amount realized will include a holder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if a Unitholder sells its Common Units, such Unitholder may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash it receives from the sale.. 15. Reporting of partnership tax information is complicated and subject to audits.. We intend to furnish to each Unitholder, within 90 days after the close of each calendar year, specific tax information, including a Schedule K-1 that sets forth its allocable share of income, gains, losses and deductions for our preceding taxable year.  In preparing these schedules, we use various accounting and reporting conventions and adopt various depreciation and amortization methods.  We cannot guarantee that these conventions will yield a result that conforms to statutory or regulatory requirements or to administrative pronouncements of the IRS.  Further, our income tax return may be audited, which could result in an audit of a Unitholder's income tax return and increased liabilities for taxes because of adjustments resulting from the audit.. We treat each purchaser of our Common Units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual Common Units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the Common Units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of Common Units and because of other reasons, uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of the Common Units to a purchaser of Common Units of the same class must be maintained.  To maintain uniformity and for other reasons, we have adopted certain depreciation and amortization conventions that may be inconsistent with Treasury Regulations.  A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to a Unitholder.  It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of Common Units, and could have a negative impact on the value of our Common Units or result in audit adjustments to a Unitholder's income tax return.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our Common Units each month based upon the ownership of our Common Units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular Common Unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our Unitholders.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our Common Units each month based upon the ownership of our Common Units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular Common Unit is transferred.  Treasury Regulations provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferors and transferees of our Common Units.  However, if the IRS were to challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our Unitholders.. Unitholders may have negative tax consequences if we default on our debt or sell assets.. If we default on any of our debt obligations, our lenders will have the right to sue us for non-payment.  This could cause an investment loss and negative tax consequences for Unitholders through the realization of taxable income by Unitholders without a corresponding cash distribution.  Likewise, if we were to dispose of assets and realize a taxable gain while there is substantial debt outstanding and proceeds of the sale were applied to the debt, Unitholders could have increased taxable income without a corresponding cash distribution.. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes.. Under current law, we will be considered to have terminated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period.  Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all Unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income.  In the case of a Unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than the calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination.  Our termination currently would not affect our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but instead, after our termination we would be treated as a new partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred.. 16. There are state, local and other tax considerations for our Unitholders.. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, Unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, such as state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, even if the Unitholder does not reside in any of those jurisdictions.  A Unitholder will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property and may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is the responsibility of each Unitholder to file all U.S. federal, state and local income tax returns that may be required of each Unitholder.. A Unitholder whose Common Units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of Common Units may be considered as having disposed of those Common Units.  If so, that Unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those Common Units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because there is no tax concept of loaning a partnership interest, a Unitholder whose Common Units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of Common Units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned Common Units.  In that case, a Unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those Common Units during the period of the loan to the short seller and may recognize gain or loss from such disposition.  Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those Common Units may not be reportable by the Unitholder and any cash distribution received by the Unitholder as to those Common Units could be fully taxable as ordinary income.  Unitholders desiring to ensure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller should consult their own tax advisors to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their Common Units.. 17"
