[1] "ITEM  1A.RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Industry and Our Business. Industry Risks. Our business depends on activity within the construction industry and the strength of the local economies in which we operate.. We sell most of our construction materials and products and provide all of our paving and related services to the construction industry, so our results are significantly affected by the strength of the construction industry. Federal and state budget issues may negatively affect the amount of funding available for infrastructure spending, particularly highway construction, which constitutes a significant portion of our business. Demand for our products, particularly in the residential and nonresidential construction markets, could decline if companies and consumers cannot obtain funding for construction projects. In addition, a slow pace of economic activity results in delays or cancellations of capital projects.. Our earnings depend on the strength of the local economies in which we operate because of the high cost to transport our products relative to their price. Although some states in recent years, such as Texas, have increased their budgets for road construction, maintenance, rehabilitation and acquiring right of way for public roads, certain other states have reduced their construction spending due to budget shortfalls from lower tax revenue, as well as uncertainty relating to long - term federal highway funding prior to the FAST Act, the first law with long - term transportation funding in ten years, which was signed into law on December 4, 2015. As a result, there has been a reduction in certain states' investment in infrastructure spending. If economic and construction activity diminishes in one or more areas, particularly in our top revenue - generating markets of Texas, Utah, Kansas and Missouri, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely affected.. Our business is cyclical and requires significant working capital to fund operations.. Our business is cyclical and requires that we maintain significant working capital to fund our operations. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow depends on future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to operate our business and service our outstanding debt and other obligations, we may be required, among other things, to further reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures, sell assets or take other measures, including the restructuring of all or a portion of our debt, which may only be available, if at all, on unsatisfactory terms.. Weather can materially affect our business and we are subject to seasonality.. Nearly all of the products we sell and the services we provide are used or performed outdoors. Therefore, seasonal changes and other weather - related conditions can adversely affect our business and operations through a decline in both the use and production of our products and demand for our services. Adverse weather conditions such as extended rainy and cold weather in the spring and fall can reduce demand for our products and reduce sales or render our contracting operations less efficient. Major weather events such as hurricanes, tornadoes, tropical storms and heavy snows have adversely affected and could adversely affect sales in the near term. In particular, our operations in the southeastern and Gulf Coast regions of the United States are at risk for hurricane activity, most notably in August, September and October. For example, in 2017, Hurricane Harvey adversely affected our operations not only during the days immediately before and after the storm, but also in the weeks and months after the storm as our customers recovered and reallocated resources in response to damage caused by the storm.. Construction materials production and shipment levels follow activity in the construction industry, which typically occurs in the spring, summer and fall. Warmer and drier weather during the second and third quarters of our fiscal year typically result in higher activity and revenue levels during those quarters. The first quarter of our fiscal year has typically lower levels of activity due to the weather conditions. Our second quarter varies greatly with spring rains and wide temperature variations. A cool wet spring increases drying time on projects, which can delay sales in the second quarter, while a warm dry spring may enable earlier project startup.. 21. Table of Contents. Our industry is capital intensive and we have significant fixed and semi - fixed costs. Therefore, our profitability is sensitive to changes in volume.. The property and machinery needed to produce our products can be very expensive. Therefore, we need to spend a substantial amount of capital to purchase and maintain the equipment necessary to operate our business. Although we believe that our current cash balance, along with our projected internal cash flows and our available financing resources, will provide sufficient cash to support our currently anticipated operating and capital needs, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash to purchase and maintain the property and machinery necessary to operate our business, we may be required to reduce or delay planned capital expenditures or incur additional debt. In addition, given the level of fixed and semi - fixed costs within our business, particularly at our cement production facilities, decreases in volumes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Within our local markets, we operate in a highly competitive industry.. The U.S. construction aggregates industry is highly fragmented with a large number of independent local producers in a number of our markets. Additionally, in most markets, we compete against large private and public infrastructure companies, some of which are also vertically - integrated. Therefore, there is intense competition in a number of the markets in which we operate. This significant competition could lead to lower prices, lower sales volumes and higher costs in some markets, negatively affecting our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Growth Risks. The success of our business depends on our ability to execute on our acquisition strategy.. A significant portion of our historical growth has occurred through acquisitions, and we will likely enter into acquisitions in the future. We are presently evaluating, and we expect to continue to evaluate on an ongoing basis, possible acquisition transactions. We are presently engaged, and at any time in the future we may be engaged, in discussions or negotiations with respect to possible acquisitions, including larger transactions that would be significant to us. We regularly make, and we expect to continue to make, non - binding acquisition proposals, and we may enter into letters of intent, in each case allowing us to conduct due diligence on a confidential basis. We cannot predict the timing of any contemplated transactions. To successfully acquire a significant target, we may need to raise additional capital through additional equity issuances, additional indebtedness, or a combination of equity and debt issuances. There can be no assurance that we will enter into definitive agreements with respect to any contemplated transactions or that they will be completed. Our growth has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management and operational and financial resources. Acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform as expected.. Our results of operations from these acquisitions could, in the future, result in impairment charges for any of our intangible assets, including goodwill, or other long - lived assets, particularly if economic conditions worsen unexpectedly. As a result of these changes, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. In addition, many of the businesses that we have acquired and will acquire have unaudited financial statements that have been prepared by the management of such companies and have not been independently reviewed or audited. We cannot assure you that the financial statements of companies we have acquired or will acquire would not be materially different if such statements were independently reviewed or audited. If such statements were to be materially different, the tangible and intangible assets we acquire may be more susceptible to impairment charges, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. The success of our business depends on our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions.. Acquisitions may require integration of the acquired companies' sales and marketing, distribution, engineering, purchasing, finance and administrative organizations. We may not be able to integrate successfully any business we may acquire or have acquired into our existing business and any acquired businesses may not be profitable or as profitable as we had expected. Our inability to complete the integration of new businesses in a timely and orderly manner could. 22. Table of Contents. increase costs and lower profits. Factors affecting the successful integration of acquired businesses include, but are not limited to, the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe may become liable for certain liabilities of any acquired business, whether or not known to us. These risks could include, among others, tax liabilities, product liabilities, environmental liabilities and liabilities for employment practices. These liabilities may be significant..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tSubstantial attention from our senior management and the management of the acquired business may be required, which could decrease the time that they have to service and attract customers..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe may not effectively utilize new equipment that we acquire through acquisitions or otherwise at utilization and rental rates consistent with that of our existing equipment. Further, capital equipment at acquired businesses may require additional maintenance or need to be replaced sooner than we expected..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe complete integration of acquired companies depends, to a certain extent, on the full implementation of our financial systems and policies..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously and we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, including difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight.. The success of our business depends on our ability to retain key employees of our acquired businesses. We cannot assure you we will be able to retain local managers and employees who are important to the operations of our acquired businesses. The loss of key employees may have an adverse effect on the acquired business and on our business as a whole.. Our long - term success is dependent upon securing and permitting aggregate reserves in strategically located areas. The inability to secure and permit such reserves could negatively affect our earnings in the future.. Aggregates are bulky and heavy and therefore difficult to transport efficiently. Because of the nature of the products, the freight costs can quickly surpass production costs. Therefore, except for geographic regions that do not possess commercially viable deposits of aggregates and are served by rail, barge or ship, the markets for our products tend to be localized around our quarry sites and are served by truck. New quarry sites often take a number of years to develop. Our strategic planning and new site development must stay ahead of actual growth. Additionally, in a number of urban and suburban areas in which we operate, it is increasingly difficult to permit new sites or expand existing sites due to community resistance. Therefore, our future success is dependent, in part, on our ability to accurately forecast future areas of high growth in order to locate optimal facility sites and on our ability to either acquire existing quarries or secure operating and environmental permits to open new quarries. If we are unable to accurately forecast areas of future growth, acquire existing quarries or secure the necessary permits to open new quarries, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely affected.. Economic Risks. A decline in public infrastructure construction and reductions in governmental funding could adversely affect our earnings in the future.. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from publicly - funded construction projects. As a result, if publicly - funded construction decreases due to reduced federal or state funding or otherwise, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely affected.. In January 2011, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a new rules package that repealed a transportation law dating back to 1998, which protected annual funding levels from amendments that could reduce such funding. This rule change subjects funding for highways to yearly appropriation reviews. The change in the funding mechanism increases the uncertainty of many state departments of transportation regarding funds for highway projects. This uncertainty could result in states being reluctant to undertake large multi - year highway projects which could, in turn, negatively affect our. 23. Table of Contents. sales. We cannot be assured of the existence, amount and timing of appropriations for spending on federal, state or local projects. Federal support for the cost of highway maintenance and construction is dependent on congressional action. In addition, each state funds its infrastructure spending from specially allocated amounts collected from various taxes, typically gasoline taxes and vehicle fees, along with voter - approved bond programs. Shortages in state tax revenues can reduce the amounts spent on state infrastructure projects, even below amounts awarded under legislative bills. In recent years, certain states have experienced state - level funding pressures caused by lower tax revenues and an inability to finance approved projects. Delays or cancellations of state infrastructure spending could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Our business relies on private investment in infrastructure, and periods of economic stagnation or recession may adversely affect our earnings in the future.. A significant portion of our sales are for projects with non - public owners whose construction spending is affected by developers' ability to finance projects. Residential and nonresidential construction could decline if companies and consumers are unable to finance construction projects or in periods of economic stagnation or recession, which could result in delays or cancellations of capital projects. If housing starts and nonresidential projects stagnate or decline, sale of our construction materials, downstream products and paving and related services may decline and our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely affected.. Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and any changes to, or liabilities arising under, such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to, among other things: (i) the release or discharge of materials into the environment; (ii) the management, use, generation, treatment, processing, handling, storage, transport or disposal of hazardous materials, including the management of hazardous and non-hazardous waste used as a fuel substitute in our cement kiln in Hannibal, Missouri; (iii) the management, use, generation, treatment, processing, handling, storage, transport or disposal of non - hazardous solid waste used as a fuel substitute in our cement kiln in Davenport, Iowa; and (iv) the protection of public and employee health and safety and the environment. These laws and regulations impose strict liability in some cases without regard to negligence or fault and expose us to liability for the environmental condition of our currently or formerly owned, leased or operated facilities or third - party waste disposal sites, and may expose us to liability for the conduct of others or for our actions, even if such actions complied with all applicable laws at the time these actions were taken. In particular, we may incur remediation costs and other related expenses because our facilities were constructed and operated before the adoption of current environmental laws and the institution of compliance practices or because certain of our processes are regulated. These laws and regulations may also expose us to liability for claims of personal injury or property or natural resource damage related to alleged exposure to, or releases of, regulated or hazardous materials. The existence of contamination at properties we own, lease or operate could also result in increased operational costs or restrictions on our ability to use those properties as intended, including for purposes of mining.. There is an inherent risk of liability in the operation of our business, and despite our compliance efforts, we may be in noncompliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations from time to time. These potential liabilities or events of noncompliance could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. In many instances, we must have government approvals, certificates, permits or licenses in order to conduct our business, which could require us to make significant capital, operating and maintenance expenditures to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Our failure to obtain and maintain required approvals, certificates, permits or licenses or to comply with applicable governmental requirements could result in sanctions, including substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct some or all of our operations. Governmental requirements that affect our operations also include those relating to air and water quality, waste management, asset reclamation, the operation and closure of municipal waste and construction and demolition debris landfills, remediation of contaminated sites and worker health and safety. These requirements are complex and subject to frequent change. Stricter laws and regulations, more stringent interpretations of existing laws or regulations or the future discovery of environmental conditions may impose new liabilities on us, reduce operating hours, require additional investment by us in pollution control equipment or impede our opening new or expanding existing plants or facilities.. We have incurred, and may in the future incur, significant capital and operating expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations. In addition, we have recorded liabilities in connection with our reclamation and landfill closure obligations, but there can be no assurances that the costs of our obligations will not exceed our estimates. The cost of. 24. Table of Contents. complying with such laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Financial Risks. Difficult and volatile conditions in the credit markets could affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Demand for our products is primarily dependent on the overall health of the economy, and federal, state and local public infrastructure funding levels. A stagnant or declining economy tends to produce less tax revenue for public infrastructure agencies, thereby decreasing a source of funds available for spending on public infrastructure improvements, which constitute a significant part of our business.. There is a likelihood that we will not be able to collect on certain of our accounts receivable from our customers. If our customers are unable to obtain credit or unable to obtain credit in a timely manner, they may be unable to pay us, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. If we are unable to accurately estimate the overall risks, requirements or costs when we bid on or negotiate contracts that are ultimately awarded to us, we may achieve lower than anticipated profits or incur contract losses.. Even though the majority of our government contracts contain raw material escalators to protect us from certain price increases, a portion or all of the contracts are often on a fixed cost basis. Pricing on a contract with a fixed unit price is based on approved quantities irrespective of our actual costs and contracts with a fixed total price require that the total amount of work be performed for a single price irrespective of our actual costs. We realize profit on our contracts only if our revenue exceeds actual costs, which requires that we successfully estimate our costs and then successfully control actual costs and avoid cost overruns. If our cost estimates for a contract are inadequate, or if we do not execute the contract within our cost estimates, then cost overruns may cause us to incur a loss or cause the contract not to be as profitable as we expected. The costs incurred and profit realized, if any, on our contracts can vary, sometimes substantially, from our original projections due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure to include materials or work in a bid, or the failure to estimate properly the quantities or costs needed to complete a lump sum contract;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdelays caused by weather conditions or otherwise failing to meet scheduled acceptance dates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcontract or project modifications or conditions creating unanticipated costs that are not covered by change orders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in availability, proximity and costs of materials, including liquid asphalt, cement, aggregates and other construction materials (such as stone, gravel, sand and oil for asphalt paving), as well as fuel and lubricants for our equipment;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tto the extent not covered by contractual cost escalators, variability and inability to predict the costs of purchasing diesel, liquid asphalt and cement;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tavailability and skill level of workers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure by our suppliers, subcontractors, designers, engineers or customers to perform their obligations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfraud, theft or other improper activities by our suppliers, subcontractors, designers, engineers, customers or our own personnel;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmechanical problems with our machinery or equipment;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcitations issued by any governmental authority, including OSHA and MSHA;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in obtaining required governmental permits or approvals;. 25. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in applicable laws and regulations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tuninsured claims or demands from third parties for alleged damages arising from the design, construction or use and operation of a project of which our work is part; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpublic infrastructure customers may seek to impose contractual risk - shifting provisions more aggressively which may result in us facing increased risks.. These factors, as well as others, may cause us to incur losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. We could incur material costs and losses as a result of claims that our products do not meet regulatory requirements or contractual specifications.. We provide our customers with products designed to meet building code or other regulatory requirements and contractual specifications for measurements such as durability, compressive strength, weight - bearing capacity and other characteristics. If we fail or are unable to provide products meeting these requirements and specifications, material claims may arise against us and our reputation could be damaged. Additionally, if a significant uninsured, non - indemnified or product - related claim is resolved against us in the future, that resolution could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. The cancellation of a significant number of contracts or our disqualification from bidding for new contracts could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. We could be prohibited from bidding on certain government contracts if we fail to maintain qualifications required by the relevant government entities. In addition, contracts with governmental entities can usually be canceled at any time by them with payment only for the work completed. A cancellation of an unfinished contract or our disqualification from the bidding process could result in lost revenue and cause our equipment to be idled for a significant period of time until other comparable work becomes available, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Our operations are subject to special hazards that may cause personal injury or property damage, subjecting us to liabilities and possible losses which may not be covered by insurance.. Operating hazards inherent in our business, some of which may be outside our control, can cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, plant and equipment and environmental damage. We maintain insurance coverage in amounts and against the risks we believe are consistent with industry practice, but this insurance may not be adequate or available to cover all losses or liabilities we may incur in our operations. Our insurance policies are subject to varying levels of deductibles. However, liabilities subject to insurance are difficult to estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety programs. If we were to experience insurance claims or costs above our estimates, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely effected.. Unexpected factors affecting self - insurance claims and reserve estimates could adversely affect our business.. We use a combination of third - party insurance and self - insurance to provide for potential liabilities for workers' compensation, general liability, vehicle accident, property and medical benefit claims. Although we seek to minimize our exposure on individual claims, for the benefit of costs savings we have accepted the risk of multiple independent material claims arising. We estimate the projected losses and liabilities associated with the risks retained by us, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic and severity factors and other actuarial assumptions which, by their nature, are subject to a high degree of variability. Among the causes of this variability are unpredictable external factors affecting future inflation rates, discount rates, litigation trends, legal interpretations, benefit level changes and claim settlement patterns. Any such matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. 26. Table of Contents. Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our financial condition, our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, our ability to operate our business, our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and our ability to pay our debts, which could divert our cash flow from operations to debt payments.. We are highly leveraged. As of December 30, 2017, our total debt was approximately $1.8 billion, which includes $1.2 billion of Senior Notes and $635.4 million of senior secured indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities and we had an additional $218.9 million of unutilized capacity under our senior secured revolving credit facility (after giving effect to approximately $16.1 million of letters of credit outstanding).. Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsubject us to the risk of increased interest rates as a portion of our borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities are exposed to variable rates of interest;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaking it more difficult for us to make payments on our debt.. Borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. We have and may in the future enter into interest rate swaps that involve the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce interest rate volatility. However, we may not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any interest rate swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. In addition, the indentures that govern the Senior Notes and the amended and restated credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities (\"Credit Agreement\") contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debt.. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may still incur substantially more debt. This could reduce our ability to satisfy our current obligations and further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above.. We and our subsidiaries may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future to fund acquisitions as part of our growth strategy. Although the indentures governing the Senior Notes and the Credit Agreement contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and we could incur substantial additional indebtedness in compliance with these restrictions.. Our senior secured credit facilities include an uncommitted incremental facility that allows us the option to increase the amount available under the term loan facility and/or the senior secured revolving credit facility by (i) $225.0 million plus (ii) an additional amount so long as we are in pro forma compliance with a consolidated first lien net leverage ratio. Availability of such incremental facilities will be subject to, among other conditions, the absence of an event of default and the receipt of commitments by existing or additional financial institutions.. 27. Table of Contents. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations, refinance our debt obligations and fund planned capital expenditures and other corporate expenses depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions. We are also subject to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and legal restrictions on the payment of distributions and dividends. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, which would constitute an event of default if not cured. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.\" If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations or our other needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, seek additional capital, restructure or refinance our indebtedness or sell assets. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or fund planned capital expenditures. Significant delays in our planned capital expenditures may materially and adversely affect our future revenue prospects. In addition, our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The Credit Agreement and the indentures governing the Senior Notes restrict our ability to use the proceeds from asset sales. We may not be able to consummate those asset sales to raise capital or sell assets at prices that we believe are fair and proceeds that we do receive may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness.. The indentures governing the Senior Notes and the Credit Agreement contain covenants and provisions that are restrictive.. The indentures governing the Senior Notes and Credit Agreement contain restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our ability, and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries, to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur additional indebtedness, issue certain preferred shares or issue guarantees;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpay dividends, redeem our membership interests or make other restricted payments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake investments, loans or advances;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur additional liens;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttransfer or sell assets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmerge or engage in consolidations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenter into certain transactions with our affiliates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdesignate subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trepay subordinated indebtedness; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchange our lines of business.. The senior secured credit facilities also require us to maintain a maximum first lien net leverage ratio. The Credit Agreement also contains certain customary representations and warranties, affirmative covenants and events of default (including, among others, an event of default upon a change of control). If an event of default occurs, the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities will be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due under our senior secured credit facilities and all actions permitted to be taken by a secured creditor. Our failure to comply with obligations under the indentures governing the Senior Notes and the Credit Agreement may result in an event of default under the indenture or the amended and restated Credit Agreement. A default, if not cured or waived,. 28. Table of Contents. may permit acceleration of our indebtedness. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to pay the accelerated indebtedness or the ability to refinance the accelerated indebtedness on terms favorable to us or at all.. Other Risks. Our success is dependent on our Chief Executive Officer and other key personnel.. Our success depends on the continuing services of our Chief Executive Officer, Tom Hill, and other key personnel assembled by Mr. Hill. We believe that Mr. Hill possesses valuable knowledge and skills that are crucial to our success and would be very difficult to replicate. Not all of our senior management team resides near or works at our headquarters. The geographic distance between the members of our senior management team may impede the team's ability to work together effectively, and we cannot assure you they will be able to do so.. Competition for senior management is intense, and we may not be able to retain our management team or attract additional qualified personnel. The loss of a member of senior management could require certain of our remaining senior officers to divert immediate attention, which could be substantial or require costly external resources in the short term. The inability to adequately fill vacancies in our senior executive positions on a timely basis could negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. We use large amounts of electricity, diesel fuel, liquid asphalt and other petroleum - based resources that are subject to potential reliability issues, supply constraints and significant price fluctuation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. In our production and distribution processes, we consume significant amounts of electricity, diesel fuel, liquid asphalt and other petroleum - based resources. The availability and pricing of these resources are subject to market forces that are beyond our control. Furthermore, we are vulnerable to any reliability issues experienced by our suppliers, which also are beyond our control. Our suppliers contract separately for the purchase of such resources and our sources of supply could be interrupted should our suppliers not be able to obtain these materials due to higher demand or other factors that interrupt their availability. Variability in the supply and prices of these resources could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Climate change and climate change legislation or regulations may adversely affect our business.. A number of governmental bodies have finalized, proposed or are contemplating legislative and regulatory changes in response to the potential effects of climate change, and the United States and Canada have agreed to the Paris Agreement, the successor to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which could lead to additional legislative and regulatory changes in the United States and Canada.   Such legislation or regulation has and potentially could include provisions for a \"cap and trade\" system of allowances and credits, among other provisions. The EPA promulgated a mandatory reporting rule covering greenhouse gas (\"GHG\") emissions from sources considered to be large emitters. The EPA has also promulgated a GHG emissions permitting rule, referred to as the \"Tailoring Rule\" which sets forth criteria for determining which facilities are required to obtain permits for GHG emissions pursuant to the U.S. Clean Air Act's Prevention of Significant Deterioration (\"PSD\") and Title V operating permit programs. The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in June 2014 that the EPA exceeded its statutory authority in issuing the Tailoring Rule but upheld the Best Available Control Technology (\"BACT\") requirements for GHGs emitted by sources already subject to PSD requirements for other pollutants. Our cement plants and one of our landfills hold Title V Permits. If future modifications to our facilities require PSD review for other pollutants, GHG BACT requirements may also be triggered, which could require significant additional costs.. Other potential effects of climate change include physical effects such as disruption in production and product distribution as a result of major storm events and shifts in regional weather patterns and intensities. There is also a potential for climate change legislation and regulation to adversely affect the cost of purchased energy and electricity.. The effects of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain and difficult to estimate. However, because a chemical reaction inherent to the manufacture of Portland cement releases carbon dioxide, a GHG, cement kiln operations may be disproportionately affected by future regulation of GHGs. Climate change and legislation and. 29. Table of Contents. regulation concerning GHGs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Unexpected operational difficulties at our facilities could disrupt operations, raise costs, and reduce revenue and earnings in the affected locations.. The reliability and efficiency of certain of our facilities is dependent upon vital pieces of equipment, such as our cement manufacturing kilns in Hannibal, Missouri and Davenport, Iowa. Although we have scheduled outages to perform maintenance on certain of our facilities, vital equipment may periodically experience unanticipated disruptions due to accidents, mechanical failures or other unanticipated events such as fires, explosions, violent weather conditions or other unexpected operational difficulties. A substantial interruption of one of our facilities could require us to make significant capital expenditures to restore operations and could disrupt our operations, raise costs, and reduce revenue and earnings in the affected locations.. We are dependent on information technology. Our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including cyber security risks and data leakage risks.. We are dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure. Any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of these systems by employees, others with authorized access to our systems, or unauthorized persons could negatively affect operations. There is also a risk that we could experience a business interruption, theft of information or reputational damage as a result of a cyber-attack, such as an infiltration of a data center, or data leakage of confidential information either internally or at our third - party providers. While we have invested in the protection of our data and information technology to reduce these risks and periodically test the security of our information systems network, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Labor disputes could disrupt operations of our businesses.. As of December 30, 2017, labor unions represented approximately 7% of our total employees, substantially all in our cement division and at our Canadian operations. Our collective bargaining agreements for employees generally expire between 2018 and 2020. Although we believe we have good relations with our employees and unions, disputes with our trade unions, union organizing activity, or the inability to renew our labor agreements, could lead to strikes or other actions that could disrupt our operations and, consequently, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Organizational Structure Risks. Summit Inc.'s only material asset is its interest in Summit Holdings, and it is accordingly dependent upon distributions from Summit Holdings to pay taxes, make payments under the TRA and pay dividends.. Summit Inc. is a holding company and has no material assets other than its ownership of LP Units and has no independent means of generating revenue. Summit Inc. intends to cause Summit Holdings to make distributions to holders and former holders of LP Units in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes at assumed tax rates, payments under the TRA and cash distributions, if any, declared by it. Deterioration in the financial condition, earnings or cash flow of Summit Holdings and its subsidiaries for any reason, or restrictions on payments by subsidiaries to their parent companies under applicable laws, including laws that require companies to maintain minimum amounts of capital and to make payments to stockholders only from profits, could limit or impair their ability to pay such distributions. Additionally, to the extent that Summit Inc. needs funds, and Summit Holdings is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of our financing arrangements, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Payments of dividends, if any, are at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our business, operating results and financial condition, current and anticipated cash needs, plans for expansion and any legal or contractual limitations on our ability to pay dividends. Any financing arrangement that we enter into in the future may include restrictive covenants that limit our ability to pay dividends. In addition, Summit Holdings is generally prohibited under Delaware law from making a distribution to a limited partner to the extent that, at. 30. Table of Contents. the time of the distribution, after giving effect to the distribution, liabilities of Summit Holdings (with certain exceptions) exceed the fair value of its assets. Subsidiaries of Summit Holdings are generally subject to similar legal limitations on their ability to make distributions to Summit Holdings.. Summit Inc. anticipates using certain distributions from Summit Holdings to acquire additional LP Units.. The limited partnership agreement of Summit Holdings provides for cash distributions, which we refer to as \"tax distributions,\" to be made to the holders of the LP Units if it is determined that the income of Summit Holdings will give rise to net taxable income allocable to holders of LP Units. To the extent that future tax distributions Summit Inc. receives exceed the amounts it actually requires to pay taxes and make payments under the TRA, we expect that our board of directors will cause Summit Inc. to use such excess cash to acquire additional newly-issued LP Units at a per unit price determined by reference to the volume weighted average price per share of the Class A common stock during the five trading days immediately preceding the date of the relevant board action. During the fourth quarter of 2017, Summit Inc. used approximately $47.5 million of such distributions to purchase LP Units. See \"Part II, Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities - Dividends.\" Although we anticipate that any such decision by our board of directors would be approved by a majority of our independent directors, any cash used by Summit Inc. to acquire additional LP Units would not then be available to fund cash dividends on the Class A common stock.. Summit Inc. is required to pay exchanging holders of LP Units for most of the benefits relating to any additional tax depreciation or amortization deductions that we may claim as a result of the tax basis step-up we receive in connection with sales or exchanges of LP Units and related transactions.. Holders of LP Units (other than Summit Inc.) may, subject to the vesting and minimum retained ownership requirements and transfer restrictions applicable to such holders as set forth in the limited partnership agreement of Summit Holdings, from and after March 17, 2016 (subject to the terms of the exchange agreement), exchange their LP Units for Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis. The exchanges are expected to result in increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of Summit Holdings. These increases in tax basis may increase (for tax purposes) depreciation and amortization deductions and therefore reduce the amount of tax that Summit Inc. would otherwise be required to pay in the future, although the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") may challenge all or part of the tax basis increase, and a court could sustain such a challenge.. In connection with the IPO, we entered into a TRA with the holders of LP Units that provides for the payment by Summit Inc. to exchanging holders of LP Units of 85% of the benefits, if any, that Summit Inc. is deemed to realize as a result of the increases in tax basis described above and certain other tax benefits related to entering into the TRA, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the TRA. This payment obligation is an obligation of Summit Inc. and not of Summit Holdings. While the actual increase in tax basis and the actual amount and utilization of net operating losses, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the TRA, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges, the price of shares of our Class A common stock at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable and the amount and timing of our income, we expect that as a result of the size of the transfers and increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of Summit Holdings and our possible utilization of net operating losses, the payments that Summit Inc. may make under the TRA will be substantial.. In certain cases, payments under the TRA may be accelerated or significantly exceed the actual benefits Summit Inc. realizes in respect of the tax attributes subject to the TRA.. The TRA provides that upon certain changes of control, or if, at any time, Summit Inc. elects an early termination of the TRA, Summit Inc.'s obligations under the TRA may be accelerated. Summit Inc.'s ability to achieve benefits from any tax basis increase or net operating losses, and the payments to be made under the TRA, will depend upon a number of factors, including the timing and amount of our future income. As a result, even in the absence of a change of control or an election to terminate the TRA, payments under the TRA could be in excess of 85% of Summit Inc.'s actual cash tax savings.. The actual cash tax savings realized by Summit Inc. under the TRA may be less than the corresponding TRA payments. Further, payments under the TRA may be made years in advance of when the benefits, if any, are realized on our federal and state income tax returns. Accordingly, there may be a material negative effect on our liquidity if the payments under the TRA exceed the actual cash tax savings that Summit Inc. realizes in respect of the tax attributes. 31. Table of Contents. subject to the TRA and/or distributions to Summit Inc. by Summit Holdings are not sufficient to permit Summit Inc. to make payments under the TRA. Based upon a $31.44 share price of our Class A common stock, which was the closing price on December 29, 2017, and a LIBOR rate of 3.11%, we estimate that if Summit Inc. were to exercise its termination right, the aggregate amount of these termination payments would be approximately $282 million. The foregoing number is merely an estimate and the actual payments could differ materially. We may need to incur debt to finance payments under the TRA to the extent our cash resources are insufficient to meet our obligations under the TRA as a result of timing discrepancies or otherwise.. Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock Risks. The market price of shares of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline.. The market price of our Class A common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of shares of our Class A common stock regardless of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors due to a number of potential factors, including variations in our quarterly operating results or dividends, if any, to stockholders, additions or departures of key management personnel, failure to meet analysts' earnings estimates, publication of research reports about our industry, litigation and government investigations, changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations or enforcement thereof affecting our business, adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future, changes in market valuations of similar companies or speculation in the press or investment community, announcements by our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, adverse publicity about the industries we participate in or individual scandals, and in response the market price of shares of our Class A common stock could decrease significantly. You may be unable to resell your shares of Class A common stock for a profit.. In past years, stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources.. Because we have no current plans to pay cash dividends on our Class A common stock, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell your Class A common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it.. We have no current plans to pay any cash dividends. The declaration, amount and payment of any future dividends on shares of Class A common stock will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors. Our board of directors may take into account general and economic conditions, our financial condition and results of operations, our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs, capital requirements, contractual, legal, tax and regulatory restrictions and implications on the payment of dividends by us to our stockholders or by our subsidiaries to us and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is limited by our senior secured credit facilities and our Senior Notes and may be limited by covenants of other indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur in the future. As a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our Class A common stock unless you sell our Class A common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it.. Future issuance of additional Class A common stock, or securities convertible or exchangeable for Class A common stock, may adversely affect the market price of the shares of our Class A common stock.. As of December 30, 2017, we had 110,350,594 shares of Class A common stock issued and outstanding, and had 889,649,406 shares authorized but unissued. The number of unissued shares includes 3,689,620 shares available for issuance upon exchange of LP Units held by limited partners of Summit Holdings. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue shares of Class A common stock and options, rights, warrants and appreciation rights relating to Class A common stock for the consideration and on the terms and conditions established by our board of directors in its sole discretion. We may need to raise significant additional equity capital in connection with acquisitions or otherwise. Similarly, the limited partnership agreement of Summit Holdings permits Summit Holdings to issue an unlimited number of additional limited partnership interests of Summit Holdings with designations, preferences,. 32. Table of Contents. rights, powers and duties that are different from, and may be senior to, those applicable to the LP Units, and which may be exchangeable for shares of our Class A common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of Class A common stock, or securities convertible or exchangeable for Class A common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur may adversely affect the prevailing market price for the shares of our Class A common stock. Thus holders of our Class A common stock will bear the risk of our future issuances reducing the market price of our Class A common stock and diluting the value of their stock holdings in us.. An aggregate of 13,500,000 shares of Class A common stock and LP Units may be granted under the Summit Materials, Inc. 2015 Omnibus Incentive Plan (the \"Omnibus Incentive Plan\") of which 4,873,654 have been granted as of December 30, 2017. In addition, as of December 30, 2017 we had outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 102,778 shares of Class A common stock. Any Class A common stock that we issue, including under our Omnibus Incentive Plan or other equity incentive plans that we may adopt in the future, or upon exercise of outstanding options or warrants, or other securities convertible or exchangeable for Class A common stock would dilute the percentage ownership held by the investors of our Class A common stock and may adversely affect the market price of the shares of our Class A common stock.. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the merger or acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. Among other things, these provisions:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twould allow us to authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock in connection with a stockholder rights plan or otherwise, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of Class A common stock;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprohibit stockholder action by written consent unless such action is recommended by all directors then in office;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprovide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter, or repeal our bylaws and that our stockholders may only amend our bylaws with the approval of 662/3% or more in voting power of all outstanding shares of our capital stock..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\testablish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. Further, as a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, which may impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, including actions that our stockholders may deem advantageous, or negatively affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
