[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. We, like other financial holding companies, are subject to a number of risks that may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operation, many of which are outside of our direct control, though efforts are made to manage those risks while optimizing returns. Among the risks assumed are: (i) credit risk, which is the risk of loss due to loan clients or other counterparties not being able to meet their financial obligations under agreed upon terms, (ii) market risk, which is the risk of loss due to changes in the market value of assets and liabilities due to changes in market interest rates, equity prices and credit spreads, (iii) liquidity risk, which is the risk of loss due to the possibility that funds may not be available to satisfy current or future commitments based on external market issues, investor and customer perception of financial strength and events unrelated to the Company such as war, terrorism, or financial institution market specific issues and (iv) operational risk, which is the risk of loss due to human error, inadequate or failed internal systems and controls, violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices, or ethical standards and external influences such as market conditions, fraudulent activities, disasters and security risks.. In addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference into this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, could materially impact our business, future results of operations and future cash flows.. RISKS RELATING TO THE ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT. Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in financial markets and economic conditions generally.. Our business is concentrated in West Virginia and the Northern, Shenandoah Valley and Southwestern regions of Virginia.  As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to changes if there are changes in the economic conditions in these areas.  A prolonged period of economic recession or other adverse economic conditions in these areas could have a negative impact on Summit.  A significant decline in general economic conditions nationally, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets, declines in the housing market, a tightening credit environment or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships.  We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, or other institutional firms.  Defaults by financial services institutions and even rumors or questions about a financial institution or the financial services industry in general, have led to market wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or other institutions.  Any such losses could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. The value of certain investment securities is volatile and future declines or other-than-temporary impairments could have a materially adverse effect on future earnings and regulatory capital.. Volatility in the fair value for certain investment securities, whether caused by changes in market conditions, interest rates, credit risk of the issuer, the expected yield of the security, or actual defaults in the portfolio could result in significant fluctuations in the value of the securities as well as any regulatory rulemaking which could exclude or limit the holdings of certain investment securities. This could have a material adverse impact on our accumulated other comprehensive income and shareholders' equity depending on the direction of the fluctuations. Furthermore, future downgrades, defaults or prepayments, including the liquidation of the underlying collateral in certain securities, could result in future classifications as other-than-temporarily impaired. This could have a material impact on our future earnings, although the impact on shareholders' equity will be offset by any amount already included in other comprehensive income for securities that were temporarily impaired.. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS. We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision.. The Company and Summit Community are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, which vests a significant amount of discretion in the various regulatory authorities. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors and customers, the Federal Deposit Insurance fund and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. These regulations and supervisory guidance affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and. Table of Contents. 13. growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. The Dodd-Frank Act instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes. Other changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies or supervisory guidance, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, policies or supervisory guidance, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, policies or supervisory guidance could result in enforcement and other legal actions by Federal or state authorities, including criminal and civil penalties, the loss of FDIC insurance, the revocation of a banking charter, other sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage. In this regard, government authorities, including the bank regulatory agencies, are pursuing aggressive enforcement actions with respect to compliance and other legal matters involving financial activities, which heightens the risks associated with actual and perceived compliance failures. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. See the section captioned \"Supervision and Regulation\" included in Item 1. Business on page 1.. We may become subject to additional regulatory restrictions in the event that our regulatory capital levels decline.. Although the Bank is qualified as \"well capitalized\" under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action as of December 31, 2017, there is no guarantee that we will not have a decline in our capital category in the future.  In the event of such a capital category decline, we would be subject to increased regulatory restrictions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects.. If a bank is classified as undercapitalized, the bank is required to submit a capital restoration plan to the FDIC.  Pursuant to FDICIA, an undercapitalized bank is prohibited from increasing its assets, engaging in a new line of business, acquiring any interest in any company or insured depository institution, or opening or acquiring a new branch office, except under certain circumstances, including the acceptance by the FDIC of a capital restoration plan for the bank. Furthermore, if a state non-member bank is classified as undercapitalized, the FDIC may take certain actions to correct the capital position of the bank; if a bank is classified as significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized, the FDIC would be required to take one or more prompt corrective actions.  These actions would include, among other things, requiring sales of new securities to bolster capital; improvements in management; limits on interest rates paid; prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; termination of certain risky activities and restrictions on compensation paid to executive officers.  If a bank is classified as critically undercapitalized, FDICIA requires the bank to be placed into conservatorship or receivership within ninety (90) days, unless the Federal Reserve determines that other action would better achieve the purposes of FDICIA regarding prompt corrective action with respect to undercapitalized banks.. Under FDICIA, banks may be restricted in their ability to accept brokered deposits, depending on their capital classification. \"Well capitalized\" banks are permitted to accept brokered deposits, but all banks that are not well capitalized could be restricted from accepting such deposits.  The FDIC may, on a case-by-case basis, permit banks that are adequately capitalized to accept brokered deposits if the FDIC determines that acceptance of such deposits would not constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice with respect to the bank.  These restrictions could materially and adversely affect our ability to access lower costs funds and thereby decrease our future earnings capacity.. Our financial flexibility could be severely constrained if we are unable to renew our wholesale funding or if adequate financing is not available in the future at acceptable rates of interest.  We may not have sufficient liquidity to continue to fund new loan originations and we may need to liquidate loans or other assets unexpectedly in order to repay obligations as they mature.  Our inability to obtain regulatory consent to accept or renew brokered deposits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects and our ability to continue as a going concern.. Finally, the capital classification of a bank affects the frequency of examinations of the bank, the deposit insurance premiums paid by such bank and the ability of the bank to engage in certain activities, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects.  Under FDICIA, the FDIC is required to conduct a full-scope, on-site examination of every bank at least once every twelve (12) months.. Our decisions regarding credit risk could be inaccurate and our allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects.. Our loan portfolio subjects us to credit risk.  Inherent risks in lending also include fluctuations in collateral values and economic downturns.  Making loans is an essential element of our business and there is a risk that our loans will not be repaid.. Table of Contents. 14. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for estimated probable credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio.  As of December 31, 2017, our allowance for loan losses totaled $12.6 million, which represents approximately 0.78% of our total loans.  There is no precise method of predicting loan losses and therefore, we always face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses and that we would need to make additional provisions to our allowance for loan losses.. Our methodology for the determination of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses for impaired loans is based on classifications of loans into various categories and the application of generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  For non-classified loans, the estimated allowance is based on historical loss experiences as adjusted for changes in trends and conditions on at least an annual basis.  In addition, on a quarterly basis, the estimated allowance for non-classified loans is adjusted for the probable effect that current environmental factors could have on the historical loss factors currently in use.  While our allowance for loan losses is established in different portfolio components, we maintain an allowance that we believe is sufficient to absorb all estimated probable credit losses inherent in our portfolio.. The FDIC and the West Virginia Division of Financial Institutions review our allowance for loan and lease losses and may require us to establish additional reserves.  Additions to the allowance for loan and lease losses will result in a decrease in our net earnings and capital and could hinder our ability to grow our assets.. We do business with other financial institutions that could experience financial difficulty.. We do business through the purchase and sale of Federal funds, check clearing and through the purchase and sale of loan participations with other financial institutions.  Because these financial institutions have many risks, as do we, we could be adversely affected should one of these financial institutions experience significant financial difficulties or fail to comply with our agreements with them.. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but capital may not be available when it is needed.. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations.  In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect to raise additional capital.  Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control and on our financial performance.  Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We rely on funding sources to meet our liquidity needs, such as brokered deposits and FHLB borrowings, which are generally more sensitive to changes in interest rates and can be adversely affected by general economic conditions.. We have frequently utilized, as a source of funds, certificates of deposit obtained through third parties that solicit funds from their customers for deposit with us, or brokered deposits.  Brokered deposits, when compared to retail deposits attracted through a branch network, are generally more sensitive to changes in interest rates and volatility in the capital markets and could reduce our net interest spread and net interest margin.  In addition, brokered deposit funding sources may be more sensitive to significant changes in our financial condition.  As of December 31, 2017, brokered deposits totaled $216.9 million, or approximately 13.6% of our total deposits, compared to brokered deposits in the amount of $205.7 million or approximately 15.9% of our total deposits at December 31, 2016.  As of December 31, 2017, approximately $46.4 million in brokered deposits, or approximately 21.4% of our total brokered deposits, mature within one year.  Our ability to continue to acquire brokered deposits is subject to our ability to price these deposits at competitive levels, which may increase our funding costs and the confidence of the market.  In addition, if our capital ratios fall below the levels necessary to be considered \"well capitalized\" under current regulatory guidelines, we could be restricted from using brokered deposits as a funding source.. We also have borrowings with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh, or the FHLB.  As of December 31, 2017, our FHLB borrowings maturing within one year totaled $200.0 million.  If we were unable to borrow from the FHLB in the future, we may be required to seek higher cost funding sources, which could materially and adversely affect our net interest income.. One aspect of our liquidity management process is establishing contingent liquidity funding plans under various scenarios in order to prepare for unexpected liquidity shortages or events.  The following represents three \"stressed\" liquidity circumstances and our related contingency plans with respect to each.. Table of Contents. 15. Scenario 1  -  Summit Community's capital status becomes less than \"well capitalized\".  Banks which are less than \"well capitalized\" in accordance with regulatory capital guidelines are prohibited from issuing new brokered deposits without first obtaining a waiver from the FDIC to do so.  In the event Summit Community's capital status were to fall below well capitalized and was not successful in obtaining the FDIC's waiver to issue new brokered deposits, Summit Community:. • Would have limited amounts of maturing brokered deposits to replace in the short-term, as we have limited our brokered deposits maturing in any one quarter to no more than $50 million.. • Presently has $895 million in available sources of liquid funds which could be drawn upon to fund maturing brokered deposits until Summit Community had restored its capital to well capitalized status.. • Would first seek to restore its capital to well capitalized status through capital contributions from Summit, its parent holding company.. • Would generally have no more than $100 million in brokered deposits maturing in any one year time frame, which is well within its presently available sources of liquid funds, if in the event Summit does not have the capital resources to restore Summit Community's capital to well capitalized status.  One year would give Summit Community ample time to raise alternative funds either through retail deposits or the sale of assets and obtain capital resources to restore it to well capitalized status.. Scenario 2  -  Summit Community's credit quality deteriorates such that the FHLB restricts further advances.  If in the event that the Bank's credit quality deteriorated to the point that further advances under its line with the FHLB were restricted, Summit Community:. • Would severely curtail lending and other growth activities until such time as access to this line could be restored, thus eliminating the need for net new advances.. • Would still have available current liquid funding sources secured by unemcumbered loans and securities totaling $458 million aside from its FHLB line, which would result in a funding source of approximately $359 million.. Scenario 3  -  A competitive financial institution offers a retail deposit program at interest rates significantly above current market rates in Summit Community's market areas.  If a competitive financial institution offered a retail deposit program at rates well in excess of current market rates in Summit Community's market area, the Bank:. • Presently has $895 million in available sources of liquid funds which could be drawn upon immediately to fund any \"net run off\" of deposits from this activity.. • Would severely curtail lending and other growth activities so as to preserve the availability of as much contingency funds as possible.. • Would begin offering its own competitive deposit program when deemed prudent so as to restore the retail deposits lost to the competition.. We pursue a strategy of supplementing internal growth by acquiring other financial companies or their assets and liabilities that we believe will help us fulfill our strategic objectives and enhance our earnings. There are risks associated with this strategy.. As part of our general growth strategy, we have partially expanded our business through acquisitions. We completed the FIrst Century Bankshares, Inc. (\"FCB\") acquisition in April 2018 and the acquisition of Highland County Bankshares, Inc. (\"HCB\") in October 2016. Although our business strategy emphasizes organic expansion, we continue, from time to time in the ordinary course of business, to engage in preliminary discussions with potential acquisition targets. There can be no assurance that, in the future, we will successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired operations into our existing operations or expand into new markets. The consummation of any future acquisitions may dilute shareholder value or may have an adverse effect upon our operating results while the operations of the acquired business are being integrated into our operations. In addition, once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of profitability comparable to those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. Further, transaction-related expenses may adversely affect our earnings. These adverse effects on our earnings and results of operations may have a negative impact on the value of our common stock. Acquiring banks, bank branches or other businesses involves risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including:. • We may be exposed to potential asset quality issues or unknown or contingent liabilities of the banks, businesses, assets, and liabilities we acquire. If these issues or liabilities exceed our estimates, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially negatively affected;. Table of Contents. 16. • Prices at which acquisitions can be made fluctuate with market conditions. We have experienced times during which acquisitions could not be made in specific markets at prices we considered acceptable and expect that we will experience this condition in the future;. • The acquisition of other entities generally requires integration of systems, procedures and personnel of the acquired entity into our company to make the transaction economically successful. This integration process is complicated and time consuming and can also be disruptive to the customers of the acquired business. If the integration process is not conducted successfully and with minimal effect on the acquired business and its customers, we may not realize the anticipated economic benefits of particular acquisitions within the expected time frame, and we may lose customers or employees of the acquired business. We may also experience greater than anticipated customer losses even if the integration process is successful.. • To the extent our costs of an acquisition exceed the fair value of the net assets acquired, the acquisition will generate goodwill. As discussed below, we are required to assess our goodwill for impairment at least annually, and any goodwill impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition; and. • To finance an acquisition, we may borrow funds, thereby increasing our leverage and diminishing our liquidity, or raise additional capital, which could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders.. The value of our goodwill and other intangible assets may decline.. Goodwill and other intangible assets are subject to a decline, perhaps even significantly, for several reasons including if there is a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, change in the business environment, or a material and sustained decline in the market value of our stock, which may require us to take future charges related to the impairment of that goodwill and other intangible assets in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of our operations.. We operate in a very competitive industry and market.. We face aggressive competition not only from banks, but also from other financial services companies, including finance companies and credit unions and, to a limited degree, from other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms and consumer finance companies.  A number of competitors in our market areas are larger than we are and have substantially greater access to capital and other resources, as well as larger lending limits and branch systems and offer a wider array of banking services.  Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us.  As a result, these non-bank competitors have advantages over us in providing certain services.  Our profitability depends upon our ability to attract loans and deposits.  There is a risk that aggressive competition could result in our controlling a smaller share of our markets.  A decline in market share could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property.  During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans.  In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on those properties.  If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage.  Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property.  In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability.  The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in interest rates could negatively impact our future earnings.. Changes in interest rates could reduce income and cash flow.  Our income and cash flow depend primarily on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investment securities and the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings.  Interest rates are beyond our control and they fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the FRB.  Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence loan originations, purchases of investments, volumes of deposits and rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits.  Our results of operations may be adversely affected by increases or decreases in interest rates or by the shape of the yield curve.. Table of Contents. 17. The repeal of Federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense as interest rates rise.. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. We do not yet know what interest rates other institutions may offer as market interest rates begin to increase. Our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if we begin offering interest on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely heavily on our management team and the unexpected loss of key officers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects.. Our success has been and will continue to be greatly influenced by our ability to retain the services of existing senior management and, as we expand, to attract and retain qualified additional senior and middle management.  Our senior executive officers have been instrumental in the development and management of our business.  The loss of the services of any of our senior executive officers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects.  We have not established a detailed management succession plan.  Accordingly, should we lose the services of any of our senior executive officers, our Board of Directors may have to search outside of Summit Financial Group for a qualified permanent replacement.  This search may be prolonged and we cannot assure you that we will be able to locate and hire a qualified replacement.  If any of our senior executive officers leaves his or her respective position, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects may suffer.. Our business may be adversely affected by increasing prevalence of fraud and other financial crimes.. As a financial institution, we are subject to risk of loss due to fraud and other financial crimes. Nationally, reported incidents of fraud and other financial crimes have increased. We believe we have controls in place to detect and prevent such losses but in some cases multi-party collusion or other sophisticated methods of hiding fraud, may not be readily detected or detectable, and could result in losses that affect our financial condition and results of our operations.. Financial crime is not limited to the financial services industry. Our customers could experience fraud in their businesses, which could materially impact their ability to repay their loans, and deposit customers in all financial institutions are constantly and unwittingly solicited by others in fraud schemes that vary from easily detectable and obvious attempts to high-level and very complex international schemes that could drain an account of a significant amount and require detailed financial forensics to unravel. While we have controls in place, contractual agreements with our customers partitioning liability, and insurance to help mitigate the risk, none of these are guarantees that we will not experience a loss, potentially a loss that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, reputation and results of our operations.. Our information systems may experience failure, interruption or breach in security.. In the ordinary course of business, we rely on electronic communications and information systems to conduct our operations and to store sensitive data. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in significant disruption to our operations. Information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents may include, but are not limited to, attempts to access information, including customer and company information, malicious code, computer viruses and denial of service attacks that could result in unauthorized access, misuse, loss or destruction of data (including confidential customer information), account takeovers, unavailability of service or other events. These types of threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of external or internal parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. Further, to access our products and services our customers may use computers and mobile devices that are beyond our security control systems. Our technologies, systems, networks and software and those of other financial institutions have been and are likely to continue to be, the target of cybersecurity threats and attacks, which may range from uncoordinated individual attempts to sophisticated and targeted measures directed at us. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased.. Our business requires the collection and retention of large volumes of customer data, including personally identifiable information in various information systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide data services. We also maintain important internal company data such as personally identifiable information about our employees and information relating to our operations. The integrity and protection of that customer and company data is important to us. Our collection of such customer and company data is subject to extensive regulation and oversight.. Table of Contents. 18. Our customers and employees have been and will continue to be, targeted by parties using fraudulent e-mails and other communications in attempts to misappropriate passwords, bank account information or other personal information or to introduce viruses or other malware through \"Trojan horse\" programs to our information systems and/or our customers' computers. Though we endeavor to mitigate these threats through product improvements, use of encryption and authentication technology and customer and employee education, such cyber attacks against us or our merchants and our third party service providers remain a serious issue. The pervasiveness of cybersecurity incidents in general and the risks of cyber crime are complex and continue to evolve. More generally, publicized information concerning security and cyber-related problems could inhibit the use or growth of electronic or web-based applications or solutions as a means of conducting commercial transactions.. Although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our information systems and have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. Even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures and thus it is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. While we maintain specific \"cyber\" insurance coverage, which would apply in the event of various breach scenarios, the amount of coverage may not be adequate in any particular case. Furthermore, because cyber threat scenarios are inherently difficult to predict and can take many forms, some breaches may not be covered under our cyber insurance coverage. A security breach or other significant disruption of our information systems or those related to our customers, merchants and our third party vendors, including as a result of cyber attacks, could (i) disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems and therefore our  operations and/or those of certain of our customers; (ii) result in the unauthorized access to and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our customers; (iii) result in a violation of applicable privacy, data breach and other laws, subjecting us to additional regulatory scrutiny and expose the us to civil litigation, governmental fines and possible financial liability; (iv) require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result; or (v) harm our reputation or cause a decrease in the number of customers that choose to do business with us. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The negative economic effects caused by terrorist attacks, including cyber attacks, potential attacks and other destabilizing events, would likely contribute to the deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio and could reduce our customer base, level of deposits and demand for our financial products, such as loans.. High inflation, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, including cyber attacks, an escalation of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences and other factors could have a negative impact on the economy of the Mid-Atlantic regions in which we operate.  An additional economic downturn in our markets would likely contribute to the deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio by impacting the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and may reduce the level of deposits in our bank and the stability of our deposit funding sources.  An additional economic downturn could also have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services.  The cumulative effect of these matters on our results of operations and financial condition could be adverse and material.. We are dependent upon third parties for certain information system, data management and processing services and to provide key components of our business infrastructure.. We outsource certain information system and data management and processing functions to third party providers. These third party service providers are sources of operational and informational security risk to us, including risks associated with operational errors, information system interruptions or breaches and unauthorized disclosures of sensitive or confidential client or customer information. If third party service providers encounter any of these issues, or if we have difficulty communicating with them, we could be exposed to disruption of operations, loss of service or connectivity to customers, reputational damage and litigation risk that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or our business.. Third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and core application processing. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions.. These services must be available on a continuous and timely basis and be in compliance with any regulatory requirements. Failure to do so could substantially harm our business.. Table of Contents. 19. We often purchase services from vendors under agreements that typically can be terminated on a periodic basis. There can be no assurance, however, that vendors will be able to meet their obligations under these agreements or that we will be able to compel them to do so. Risks of relying on vendors include the following:. • If an existing agreement expires or a certain service is discontinued by a vendor, then we may not be able to continue to offer our customers the same breadth of products and our operating results would likely suffer unless we are able to find an alternate supply of a similar service.. • Agreements we may negotiate in the future may commit us to certain minimum spending obligations. It is possible that we will not be able to create the market demand to meet such obligations.. • If market demand for our products increases suddenly, our current vendors might not be able to fulfill our commercial needs, which would require us to seek new arrangements or new sources of supply and may result in substantial delays in meeting market demand.. • We may not be able to control or adequately monitor the quality of services we receive from our vendors. Poor quality services could damage our reputation with our customers.. Potential problems with vendors such as those discussed above could have a significant adverse effect on our business, lead to higher costs and damage our reputation with our customers and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings.. The accounting standard setting bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards affecting the preparation of financial statements.  These changes are not within our control and could materially impact our financial statements.. Our business is dependent on technology and our inability to invest in technological improvements may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services.  In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs.  Our future success depends in part upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as create additional efficiencies in its operations.  Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements.  We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers, which may negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our potential inability to integrate companies we may acquire in the future could have a negative effect on our expenses and results of operations.. On occasion, we may engage in a strategic acquisition when we believe there is an opportunity to strengthen and expand our business. To fully benefit from such acquisition, however, we must integrate the administrative, financial, sales, lending, collections and marketing functions of the acquired company.  If we are unable to successfully integrate an acquired company, we may not realize the benefits of the acquisition and our financial results may be negatively affected.  A completed acquisition may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, including our capital requirements and the accounting treatment of the acquisition.  Completed acquisitions may also lead to significant unexpected liabilities after the consummation of these acquisitions.. RISKS RELATING TO AN INVESTMENT IN OUR SECURITIES. Our ability to pay dividends is limited.. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries. We receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiary bank, Summit Community.  These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt.  Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that Summit Community may pay to Summit.  Also, Summit's right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors.  In the event Summit Community is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our. Table of Contents. 20. common stock.  The inability to receive dividends from Summit Community could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our stock price can be volatile.. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for our shareholders to resell their common stock when they want and at prices they find attractive.  Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, including, among other things:. •     Actual or anticipated negative variations in quarterly results of operations;. •     Negative recommendations by securities analysts;. •     Poor operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;. •     News reports relating to negative trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry or the economy in general;. •     Negative perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors;. •     New technology used, or services offered, by competitors;. •     Adverse changes in interest rates or a lending environment with prolonged low interest rates;. •     Adverse changes in the real estate market;. •     Negative economic news;. •     Failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions;. • Regulatory changes affecting our industry generally or our businesses and operations;. • Announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors;. • Changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stocks, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility;. • Rumors or erroneous information;. • New litigation or changes in existing litigation;. • Adverse regulatory actions;. •     Adverse changes in government regulations; and. •     Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts.. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease, regardless of operating results.. Our executive officers and directors own shares of our common stock, allowing management to have an impact on our corporate affairs.. As of February 21, 2018 our executive officers and directors beneficially own 12.93% (computed in accordance with Exchange Act Rule 13d-3) of the outstanding shares of our common stock.  Accordingly, these executive officers and directors will be able to impact the outcome of all matters required to be submitted to our shareholders for approval, including decisions relating to the election of directors, the determination of our day-to-day corporate and management policies and other significant corporate transactions.. There may be future sales of additional common stock or preferred stock or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Our board of directors is authorized to cause us to issue additional classes or series of preferred shares without any action on the part of the shareholders.  The board of directors also has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred shares that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends or upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of our business and other terms.  If we issue. Table of Contents. 21. preferred shares in the future that have a preference over the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, or if we issue preferred shares with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the common stock, the rights of holders of the common stock or the market price of the common stock could be adversely affected.. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur.. Holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our shareholders.. We have three statutory business trusts that were formed for the purpose of issuing mandatorily redeemable securities (the \"capital securities\") for which we are obligated to third-party investors and investing the proceeds from the sale of the capital securities in our junior subordinated debentures (the \"debentures\").  The debentures held by the trusts are their sole assets.  Our subordinated debentures of these unconsolidated statutory trusts totaled approximately $19.6 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016.. Distributions on the capital securities issued by the trusts are payable quarterly, at the variable interest rates specified in those certain securities.  The capital securities are subject to mandatory redemption, in whole or in part, upon repayment of the debentures.. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of the statutory trusts are conditionally guaranteed by us.  The junior subordinated debentures are senior to our shares of common stock.  As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock.  We have the right to defer distributions on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five (5) years, during which time no dividends may be paid on our common stock.  In 2017, our total interest payments on these junior subordinated debentures approximated $693,000.  Based on current rates, our quarterly interest payment obligation on our junior subordinated debentures is approximately $189,000.. The capital securities held by our three trust subsidiaries qualify as Tier 1 capital under FRB guidelines.  In accordance with these guidelines, trust preferred securities generally are limited to twenty-five percent (25%) of Tier 1 capital elements, net of goodwill.  The amount of trust preferred securities and certain other elements in excess of the limit can be included in Tier 2 capital.. Provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party.. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or could otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock.  For example, our amended and restated articles of incorporation contain advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors. We also have a staggered board of directors, which means that only one-third (1/3) of our Board of Directors can be replaced by shareholders at any annual meeting.. Your shares are not an insured deposit.. Your investment in our common stock is not a bank deposit and is not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC or any other government agency.  Your investment is subject to investment risk and you must be capable of affording the loss of your entire investment.. OTHER RISKS. Additional factors could have a negative effect on our financial performance and the value of our common stock.  Some of these factors are general economic and financial market conditions, continuing consolidation in the financial services industry, new litigation or changes in existing litigation, regulatory actions and losses.. Table of Contents. 22"
