[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. These risk factors represent what we believe to be the known material risk factors with respect to us and our business. Our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to these risks and uncertainties, any of which could cause actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results.. These risks are not the only risks we face.  Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Risks Inherent in Our Business and Industry. Sustained uncertainty in financial markets, or unfavorable economic conditions in the industries in which our customers operate, may lead to a reduction in the demand for our products and services, and adversely impact our cash flows, financial position or results of operations.. Sustained volatility and disruption in worldwide capital and credit markets in the U.S. and globally could restrict our ability to access the capital market at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital for our business including for potential acquisitions, or other growth opportunities.. Deteriorating or unfavorable economic conditions in the industries in which our customers operate, such as steelmaking and electric power generation, may lead to reduced demand for steel products, coal, and other bulk commodities which, in turn, could adversely affect the demand for our products and services and negatively impact the revenues, margins and profitability of our business.. Additionally, the tightening of credit, or lack of credit availability to our customers, could adversely affect our ability to collect our trade receivables.  We also are exposed to the credit risk of our coke and logistics customers, and any significant unanticipated deterioration of their creditworthiness and resulting increase in nonpayment or nonperformance by them could have a material adverse effect on the cash flows and/or results of our operations.. Adverse developments at our cokemaking and/or logistics operations, including equipment failures or deterioration of assets, may lead to production curtailments, shutdowns, impairments, or additional expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our cokemaking and logistics operations are subject to significant hazards and risks that include, but are not limited to, equipment malfunction, explosions, fires and the effects of severe weather conditions and extreme temperatures, any of which could result in production and transportation difficulties and disruptions, permit non-compliance, pollution, personal injury or wrongful death claims and other damage to our properties and the property of others.. Adverse developments at our cokemaking facilities could significantly disrupt our coke, steam and/or electricity production and our ability to supply coke, steam, and/or electricity to our customers.  Adverse developments at our logistics operations could significantly disrupt our ability to provide handling, mixing, storage, terminalling, transloading and/or transportation services, of coal and other dry and liquid bulk commodities, to our customers. Any sustained disruption at our cokemaking and/or logistics operations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. There is a risk of mechanical failure of our equipment both in the normal course of operations and following unforeseen events.  Our cokemaking and logistics operations depend upon critical pieces of equipment that occasionally may be out of service for scheduled upgrades or maintenance or as a result of unanticipated failures.  Our facilities are subject to equipment failures and the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, accidents or violent weather conditions or extreme temperatures. As a result, we may experience interruptions in our processing and production capabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  In particular, to the extent a disruption leads to our failure to maintain the temperature inside our coke oven batteries, we may not be able to maintain the integrity of the ovens or to continue operation of such coke ovens, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our customers' requirements for coke and, in some cases, electricity and/or steam.. 15. Table of Contents. Assets and equipment critical to the operations of our cokemaking and logistics operations also may deteriorate or become depleted materially sooner than we currently estimate.  Such deterioration of assets may result in additional maintenance spending or additional capital expenditures. If these assets do not generate the amount of future cash flows that we expect, and we are not able to procure replacement assets in an economically feasible manner, our future results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. Impairment in the carrying value of long-lived assets and goodwill could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We have a significant amount of long-lived assets and goodwill on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Under generally accepted accounting principles, long-lived assets must be reviewed for impairment whenever adverse events or changes in circumstances indicate a possible impairment.  We are required to perform impairment tests on our assets whenever events or changes in circumstances lead to a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows that would indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable or whenever management's plans change with respect to those assets.. If business conditions or other factors cause profitability and cash flows to decline, we may be required to record non-cash impairment charges. Goodwill must be evaluated for impairment annually or more frequently if events indicate it is warranted.  If the carrying value of our reporting units exceeds their current fair value as determined based on the discounted future cash flows of the related business, the goodwill is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value by a non-cash charge to earnings.. Events and conditions that could result in impairment in the value of our long-lived assets and goodwill include: the impact of a downturn in the global economy, competition, advances in technology, adverse changes in the regulatory environment, and other factors leading to a reduction in expected long-term sales or profitability, or a significant decline in the trading price of our common stock or market capitalization, lower future cash flows, slower industry growth rates and other changes in the industries in which we or our customers operate.. The financial performance of our cokemaking and logistics businesses is substantially dependent upon a limited number of customers, and the loss of these customers, or any failure by them to perform under their contracts with us, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, permit compliance, results of operations and cash flows.. Substantially all of our coke sales currently are made pursuant to long-term contracts with AM USA, U.S. Steel and AK Steel, and we expect these three customers to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future.  In our logistics business, a significant portion of our revenues and cash flows are derived from long-term contracts with Foresight Energy LLC and Murray American Coal, Inc. at CMT, and we expect these two customers to continue to account for a significant portion of the revenues of our logistics business for the foreseeable future.. We are subject to the credit risk of our major customers and other parties.  If we fail to adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers or unanticipated deterioration of their creditworthiness, any resulting increase in nonpayment or nonperformance by them could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial position or results of operations.  During periods of weak demand for steel or coal, our customers may experience significant reductions in their operations, or substantial declines in the prices of the steel, or coal products, they sell.  These and other factors such as labor relations or bankruptcy filings may lead certain of our customers to seek renegotiation or cancellation of their existing contractual commitments to us, or reduce their utilization of our services.. The loss of any of these customers (or financial difficulties at any of these customers, which result in nonpayment or nonperformance) could have a significant adverse effect on our business.  If one or more of these customers were to significantly reduce its purchases of coke or logistics services from us without a make-whole payment, or default on their agreements with us, or terminate or fail to renew their agreements with us, or if we were unable to sell such coke or logistics services to these customers on terms as favorable to us as the terms under our current agreements, our cash flows, financial position, permit compliance, or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. 16. Table of Contents. Our cokemaking and logistics businesses are subject to operating risks, some of which are beyond our control, that could result in a material increase in our operating expenses.. Factors beyond our control could disrupt our cokemaking and logistics operations, adversely affect our ability to service the needs of our customers, and increase our operating costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  Such factors could include:. • geological, hydrologic, or other conditions that may cause damage to infrastructure or personnel;. • fire, explosion, or other major incident causing injury to personnel and/or equipment, that causes a cessation, or significant curtailment, of all or part of our cokemaking or logics operations at a site for a period of time;. • processing and plant equipment failures, operating hazards and unexpected maintenance problems affecting our cokemaking or logistics operations, or our customers;. • adverse weather and natural disasters, such as severe winds, heavy rains or snow, flooding, extreme temperatures and other natural events affecting our cokemaking or logistics operations, transportation, or our customers; and. • possible legal challenges to the renewal of key permits, which may lead to their renewal on terms that restrict our cokemaking or logistics operations, or impose additional costs on us.. If any of these conditions or events occur, our cokemaking or logistics operations may be disrupted, operating costs could increase significantly, and we could incur substantial losses.  Such disruptions in our operations could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, or results of operations.. We face competition, both in our cokemaking operations and in our logistics business, which has the potential to reduce demand for our products and services, and that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We face competition, both in our cokemaking operations and in our logistics business:. • Cokemaking operations:  Historically, coke has been used as a main input in the production of steel in blast furnaces.  However, some blast furnace operators have relied upon natural gas, or pulverized coal, and the use of these coke substitutes may increase in the future, particularly in light of current low natural gas prices. Many steelmakers also are exploring alternatives to blast furnace technology that require less or no use of coke.  For example, electric arc furnace technology is a commercially proven process widely used in the U.S. As these alternative processes for production of steel become more widespread, the demand for coke, including the coke we produce, may be significantly reduced.  We also face competition from alternative cokemaking technologies, including both by-product and heat recovery technologies. As these technologies improve and as new technologies are developed, competition in the cokemaking industry may intensify. As alternative processes for production of steel become more widespread, the demand for coke, including the coke we produce, may be significantly reduced.. • Logistics business:  Decreased throughput and utilization of our logistics assets could result indirectly due to competition in the electrical power generation business from abundant and relatively inexpensive supplies of natural gas displacing thermal coal as a fuel for electrical power generation by utility companies.  In addition, competition in the steel industry from processes such as electric arc furnaces, or blast furnace injection of pulverized coal or natural gas, may reduce the demand for metallurgical coals processed through our logistics facilities.  In the future, additional coal handling facilities and terminals with rail and/or barge access may be constructed in the Eastern U.S.  Such additional facilities could compete directly with us in specific markets now served by our logistics business.  Certain coal mining companies and independent terminal operators in some areas may compete directly with our logistics facilities.  In some markets, trucks may competitively deliver mined coal to certain shorter-haul destinations, resulting in reduced utilization of existing terminal capacity.. Such competition could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and therefore our ability to distribute cash to unitholders.. 17. Table of Contents. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations, which may increase our cost of doing business and have an adverse effect on our cash flows, financial position or results of operations.. Our operations are subject to strict regulation by federal, state and local authorities with respect to:  discharges of substances into the air and water; emissions of greenhouse gases, or GHG, compliance with the NAAQS, management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, cleanup of contaminated sites, protection of groundwater quality and availability, protection of plants and wildlife, reclamation and restoration of properties after completion of mining or drilling, installation of safety equipment in our facilities, and protection of employee health and safety.  Complying with these and other regulatory requirements, including the terms of our permits, can be costly and time-consuming, and may hinder operations.  In addition, these requirements are complex, change frequently and have become more stringent over time. Regulatory requirements may change in the future in a manner that could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs, and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Failure to comply with applicable regulations or permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations, the suspension or revocation of permits and other enforcement measures that could cause delays in permitting or development of projects or materially limit, or increase the cost of, our operations.  We may not have been, or may not be, at all times, in complete compliance with all such requirements, and we may incur material costs or liabilities in connection with such requirements, or in connection with remediation at sites we own, or third-party sites where it has been alleged that we have liability, in excess of the amounts we have accrued.  For a description of certain environmental laws and matters applicable to us, see \"Item 1. Business-Legal and Regulatory Requirements.\". The final impacts of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could be materially different from our current estimates.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Legislation\") was signed into law on December 22, 2017.  The new law made numerous changes to U.S. federal corporate tax law and is expected to reduce our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2018 and future periods.  Effective January 1, 2018, the Tax Legislation lowers the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent and prompts various other changes to U.S. federal corporate tax law, including the establishment of a territorial-style system for taxing foreign-source income of domestic multinational corporations.  The tax benefit recorded in 2017 involves significant judgment and assumptions as to the impact of the Tax Legislation.  Our estimated impact of the new law is based on management's current knowledge and assumptions.  Recognized impacts could be materially different from current estimates based on our actual results in fiscal year 2018 and our further analysis of the new law.  Because we are in the process of quantifying the impact of the Tax Legislation, we expect to record any adjustments in the next year in accordance with the guidance provided in the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118.  These adjustments could be material.  The full impact of the Tax Legislation on our business, operations, and financial statements cannot be predicted at this time and we make no assurances in this regard.  See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.. We may be unable to obtain, maintain or renew permits or leases necessary for our operations, which could materially reduce our production, cash flows or profitability.. Our cokemaking and logistics operations require us to obtain a number of permits that impose strict regulations on various environmental and operational matters.  These, as well as our facilities and operations (including our generation of electricity), require permits issued by various federal, state and local agencies and regulatory bodies. The permitting rules, and the interpretations of these rules, are complex, change frequently, and are often subject to discretionary interpretations by our regulators, all of which may make compliance more difficult or impractical, and may possibly preclude the continuance of ongoing operations or the development of future cokemaking and/or logistics facilities.  Non-governmental organizations, environmental groups and individuals have certain rights to engage in the permitting process, and may comment upon, or object to, the requested permits.  Such persons also have the right to bring citizen's lawsuits to challenge the issuance of permits, or the validity of environmental impact statements related thereto.  If any permits or leases are not issued or renewed in a timely fashion or at all, or if permits issued or renewed are conditioned in a manner that restricts our ability to efficiently and economically conduct our operations, our cash flows or profitability could be materially and adversely affected.. We may incur costs and liabilities resulting from claims for damages to property or injury to persons arising from our operations, and such costs and liabilities could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our success depends, in part, on the quality, efficacy and safety of our products and services. If our operations do not meet applicable safety standards, or our products or services are found to be unsafe, our relationships with customers could suffer and we could lose business or become subject to liability or claims.  In addition, our cokemaking and logistics operations have inherent safety risks that may give rise to events resulting in death, injury, or property loss to employees,. 18. Table of Contents. customers, or unaffiliated third parties.  Depending upon the nature and severity of such events, we could be exposed to significant financial loss, reputational damage, potential civil or criminal government or other regulatory enforcement actions, or private litigation, the settlement or outcome of which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Our businesses are subject to inherent risks, some for which we maintain third party insurance and some for which we self-insure. We may incur losses and be subject to liability claims that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We maintain insurance policies that provide limited coverage for some, but not all, potential risks and liabilities associated with our business.  We may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. As a result, we may not be able to renew our existing insurance policies or procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, certain risks, such as certain environmental and pollution risks, and certain cybersecurity risks, generally are not fully insurable. We must compensate employees for work-related injuries. If we do not make adequate provision for our workers' compensation liabilities, or we are pursued for applicable sanctions, costs, and liabilities, our operations and our profitability could be adversely affected. Even where insurance coverage applies, insurers may contest their obligations to make payments. Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by losses and liabilities from un-insured or under-insured events, as well as by delays in the payment of insurance proceeds, or the failure by insurers to make payments.. Divestitures and other significant transactions may adversely affect our business.  In particular, if we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from such transactions, or are unable to conclude such transactions upon favorable terms, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected.. We regularly review strategic opportunities to further our business objectives, and may eliminate assets that do not meet our return-on-investment criteria. If we are unable to complete such divestitures or other transactions upon favorable terms, or in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected.. The anticipated benefits of divestitures and other strategic transactions may not be realized, or may be realized more slowly than we expected. Such transactions also could result in a number of financial consequences having a material effect on our results of operations and our financial position, including reduced cash balances; higher fixed expenses; the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities (including indemnification obligations); restructuring charges; loss of customers, suppliers, distributors, licensors or employees; legal, accounting and advisory fees; and impairment charges.. We may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategies or plans, and we may experience significant risks associated with future acquisitions and/or investments.  If we are unable to execute our strategic plans, whether as a result of unfavorable market conditions in the industries in which our customers operate, or otherwise, our future results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. A portion of our strategy to grow our business is dependent upon our ability to acquire and operate new assets that result in an increase in our earnings per share.  We may not derive the financial returns we expect on our investment in such additional assets or such operations may not be profitable.  We cannot predict the effect that any failed expansion may have on our core businesses.  The success of our future acquisitions and/or investments will depend substantially on the accuracy of our analysis concerning such businesses and our ability to complete such acquisitions or investments on favorable terms, as well as to finance such acquisitions or investments and to integrate the acquired operations successfully with existing operations.  Antitrust and other laws may prevent us from completing acquisitions.  If we are not able to execute our strategic plans effectively, or successfully integrate new operations, whether as a result of unfavorable market conditions in the industries in which our customers operate, or otherwise, our business reputation could suffer and future results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. We may experience significant risks associated with future acquisitions and/or investments.. The success of our future acquisitions and/or investments will depend substantially on the accuracy of our analysis concerning such businesses and our ability to complete such acquisitions or investments on favorable terms, as well as to finance such acquisitions or investments and to integrate the acquired operations successfully with existing operations.  Antitrust and other laws may prevent us from completing acquisitions.  If we are unable to integrate new operations successfully, our financial results and business reputation could suffer.. 19. Table of Contents. Risks associated with acquisitions include the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business, the possible assumption of unknown liabilities, potential disputes with the sellers, and the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have limited or no prior experience.  Additionally, in the event we form joint ventures or other similar arrangements, we must pay close attention to the organizational formalities and time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions.  We may share ownership and management with other parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities, or resources as we do. The benefits from a successful investment in an existing entity or joint venture will be shared among the co-owners, so we will not receive the exclusive benefits from a successful investment.  Additionally, if a co-owner changes, our relationship may be materially and adversely affected.. Security breaches and other information systems failures could disrupt our operations, compromise the integrity of our data, expose us to liability, cause increased expenses and cause our reputation to suffer, any or all of which could have a material and adverse effect on our business or financial position.. Our business is dependent on financial, accounting and other data processing systems and other communications and information systems, including our enterprise resource planning tools. We process a large number of transactions on a daily basis and rely upon the proper functioning of computer systems. If a key system were to fail or experience unscheduled downtime for any reason, our operations and financial results could be affected adversely. Our systems could be damaged or interrupted by a security breach, terrorist attack, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure or similar event.  Our disaster recovery plans may not entirely prevent delays or other complications that could arise from an information systems failure. Our business interruption insurance may not compensate us adequately for losses that may occur.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data in our data centers, on our networks, and in our cloud vendors.  In addition, we rely on third party service providers, for support of our information technology systems, including the maintenance and integrity of proprietary business information and other confidential company information and data relating to customers, suppliers and employees. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy.  We have instituted data security measures for confidential company information and data stored on electronic and computing devices, whether owned or leased by us or a third party vendor. However, despite such measures, there are risks associated with customer, vendor, and other third-party access and our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to: employee error or malfeasance, failure of third parties to meet contractual, regulatory and other obligations to us, or other disruptions.. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen.  Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations, and damage our reputation, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial position.. Our operating results have been and may continue to be affected by fluctuations in our costs of production, and, if we cannot pass increases in our costs of production to our customers, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected.. Our operations require a reliable supply of equipment, replacement parts and metallurgical coal. If the cost to produce coke and provide logistics services, including cost of supplies, equipment, metallurgical coal, labor, experience significant price inflation, and we cannot pass such increases in our costs of production to our customers, our profit margins may be reduced and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected.. Labor disputes with the unionized portion of our workforce could affect us adversely. Union represented labor creates an increased risk of work stoppages and higher labor costs.. We rely, at one or more of our facilities, on unionized labor, and there is always the possibility that we may be unable to reach agreement on terms and conditions of employment or renewal of a collective bargaining agreement.  When collective bargaining agreements expire or terminate, we may not be able to negotiate new agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, and without production interruptions, including labor stoppages. If we are unable to negotiate the renewal of a collective bargaining agreement before its expiration date, our operations and our profitability could be adversely affected.  A prolonged labor dispute, which may include a work stoppage, could adversely affect our ability to satisfy our customers' orders and, as a result, adversely affect our operations, or the stability of production and reduce our future revenues, or profitability.  It is also possible that, in the future, additional employee groups may choose to be represented by a labor union.. 20. Table of Contents. Our ability to operate our company effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel.. We have implemented recruitment, training and retention efforts to optimally staff our operations.  Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies depends in part on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees.  In addition, our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees or the inability to attract or retain other qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business or business prospects. With respect to our represented employees, we may be adversely impacted by the loss of employees who retire or obtain other employment during a layoff or a work stoppage.. We currently are, and likely will be, subject to litigation, the disposition of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial position or results of operations.. The nature of our operations exposes us to possible litigation claims in the future, including disputes relating to our operations and commercial and contractual arrangements. Although we make every effort to avoid litigation, these matters are not totally within our control. We will contest these matters vigorously and have made insurance claims where appropriate, but because of the uncertain nature of litigation and coverage decisions, we cannot predict the outcome of these matters. Litigation is very costly, and the costs associated with prosecuting and defending litigation matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and profitability. In addition, our profitability or cash flow in a particular period could be affected by an adverse ruling in any litigation currently pending in the courts or by litigation that may be filed against us in the future. We are also subject to significant environmental and other government regulation, which sometimes results in various administrative proceedings.  For additional information, see \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings.\". Risks Related to Indebtedness. We own a significant equity interest in the Partnership, and our consolidated financial statements include the Partnership's substantial indebtedness.  If effective control of the Partnership's general partner is transferred to a third party, the Partnership's indebtedness could become due and payable, which would materially and adversely affect our consolidated financial position.. Due to our significant equity ownership interest in the Partnership, our consolidated financial statements include the Partnership's indebtedness.  If effective control of the Partnership's general partner is transferred to a third party, resulting in the Partnership's aggregate indebtedness becoming payable, our consolidated financial position would be materially and adversely affected.. If effective control of the Partnership's general partner is transferred to a third party, the Partnership, pursuant to the indenture for its outstanding senior secured notes, could be required to repurchase such notes in an amount equal to 101 percent of the aggregate principal amount outstanding, which was $700.0 million at December 31, 2017.  Under the Partnership's revolving credit agreement, the lenders could declare the loans and other amounts (including letter of credit obligations), totaling $131.9 million at December 31, 2017, to be immediately due and payable.. The Partnership faces material debt maturities which may adversely affect our consolidated financial position.. Over the next five years, we have approximately $187.3 million of total consolidated debt maturing at SunCoke and the Partnership.  See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.  We may not be able to refinance this debt, or may be forced to do so on terms substantially less favorable than our currently outstanding debt.  We may be forced to delay or not make capital expenditures, which may adversely affect our competitive position and financial results.. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our credit facilities and other debt documents.. Subject to the limits contained in our credit agreements, and our other debt instruments, we may be able to incur additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our level of debt could intensify. Specifically, a higher level of debt could have important consequences, including:. • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the notes and our other debt;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements;. 21. Table of Contents. • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for the payment of dividends, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under the credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete;. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other, less leveraged competitors; and. • increasing our cost of borrowing.. In addition, the credit agreement governing our credit facilities contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities (such as incurring additional debt) that may be in our long-term best interest. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debt.. Our level of indebtedness may increase, reducing our financial flexibility.. In the future, we may incur significant indebtedness in order to make future acquisitions or to develop or expand our facilities. Our level of indebtedness could affect our operations in several ways, including the following:. • a significant portion of our cash flows could be used to service our indebtedness;. • a high level of debt would increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • the covenants contained in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness will limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay distributions and make certain investments;. • a high level of debt may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged, and therefore may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our indebtedness would prevent us from pursuing;. • our debt covenants may also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and our industry; and. • a high level of debt may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, distributions or for general corporate or other purposes.. A high level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of indebtedness depends on our future performance. General economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance.  Many of these factors are beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to pay the interest on our debt, and future working capital, borrowings or equity financing may not be available to pay or refinance such debt. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our units or a refinancing of our debt include financial market conditions, the value of our assets and our performance at the time we need capital.. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.. Borrowings under the credit facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. From time to time, we may enter into, interest rate swaps that involve the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce interest rate volatility.. Rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings, which would make it more difficult for us to raise capital and would increase our financing costs.. Any downgrades in our credit ratings may make raising capital more difficult, may increase the cost and affect the terms of future borrowings, may affect the terms under which we purchase goods and services and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities.. 22. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Cokemaking Business. If a substantial portion of our agreements to supply coke, electricity, and/or steam are modified or terminated, our results of operations may be adversely affected if we are not able to replace such agreements, or if we are not able to enter into new agreements at the same level of profitability.. We make substantially all of our coke, electricity and steam sales under long-term agreements. If a substantial portion of these agreements are modified or terminated or if force majeure is exercised, our results of operations may be adversely affected if we are not able to replace such agreements, or if we are not able to enter into new agreements at the same level of profitability. The profitability of our long-term coke, energy and steam sales agreements depends on a variety of factors that vary from agreement to agreement and fluctuate during the agreement term. We may not be able to obtain long-term agreements at favorable prices, compared either to market conditions or to our cost structure. Price changes provided in long-term supply agreements may not reflect actual increases in production costs. As a result, such cost increases may reduce profit margins on our long-term coke and energy sales agreements. In addition, contractual provisions for adjustment or renegotiation of prices and other provisions may increase our exposure to short-term price volatility.. From time to time, we discuss the extension of existing agreements and enter into new long-term agreements for the supply of coke, steam, and energy to our customers, but these negotiations may not be successful and these customers may not continue to purchase coke, steam, or electricity from us under long-term agreements. In addition, declarations of bankruptcy by customers can result in changes in our contracts with less favorable terms. If any one or more of these customers were to become financially distressed and unable to pay us, significantly reduce their purchases of coke, steam, or electricity from us, or if we were unable to sell coke or electricity to them on terms as favorable to us as the terms under our current agreements, our cash flows, financial position, permit compliance, or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. Further, because of certain technological design constraints, we do not have the ability to shut down our cokemaking operations if we do not have adequate customer demand. If a customer refuses to take or pay for our coke, we must continue to operate our coke ovens even though we may not be able to sell our coke immediately and may incur significant additional costs for natural gas to maintain the temperature inside our coke oven batteries and fees under our rail contracts to account for reductions in inbound coal or outbound coke shipments at our plants, which may have a material and adverse effect on our cash flows, financial position or results of operations.. The coke sales agreement and the energy sales agreement with AK Steel at our Haverhill facility are subject to early termination under certain circumstances and any such termination could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated cash flows, financial position and results of operations.. The coke sales agreement and the energy sales agreement with AK Steel at our Haverhill II facility are subject to early termination by AK Steel under certain circumstances, and any such termination could have a material adverse effect on our business.  The Haverhill coke sales agreement with AK Steel expires on December 31, 2021, with two automatic, successive five-year renewal periods, which are subject to termination if notice is given at least one-year prior to December 31, 2021. The Haverhill energy sales agreement with AK Steel runs concurrently with the term of the coke sales agreement, including any renewals, and automatically terminates upon the termination of the related coke sales agreement.  Since January 1, 2014, the coke sales agreement may be terminated by AK Steel at any time on or after upon two years' prior written notice, if AK Steel (i) permanently shuts down iron production operations at its steel plant works in Ashland, Kentucky (the Ashland Plant) and (ii) has not acquired or begun construction of a new blast furnace in the U.S. to replace, in whole or in part, the Ashland Plant's iron production capacity.. If AK Steel were to terminate the Haverhill AK Steel Contracts, we may be unable to enter into similar long-term contracts with replacement customers for all or any portion of the coke previously purchased by AK Steel. Similarly, we may be forced to sell some or all of the previously contracted coke in the spot market, which could be at prices lower than we have currently contracted for and could subject us to significant price volatility. If AK Steel elects to terminate the Haverhill AK Steel Contracts, our cash flows, financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. 23. Table of Contents. Excess capacity in the global steel industry, and/or increased exports of coke from producing countries, may weaken our customers' demand for our coke and could materially and adversely affect our future revenues and profitability.. In some countries steelmaking capacity exceeds demand for steel products.  Rather than reducing employment by matching production capacity to consumption, steel manufacturers in these countries (often with local government assistance or subsidies in various forms) may export steel at prices that are significantly below their home market prices and that may not reflect their costs of production or capital. Our steelmaking customers, may decrease the prices they charge for steel, or take other action, as the supply of steel increases. The profitability and financial position of our steelmaking customers may be adversely affected, causing such customers to reduce their demand for our coke and making it more likely that they may seek to renegotiate their contracts with us or fail to pay for the coke they are required to take under our contracts.  In addition, future increases in exports of coke from China and/or other coke-producing countries also may reduce our customers' demand for coke capacity. Such reduced demand for our coke could adversely affect the certainty of our long-term relationships with our customers depress coke prices, and limit our ability to enter into new, or renew existing, commercial arrangements with our customers, as well as our ability to sell excess capacity in the spot market, and could materially and adversely affect our future revenues and profitability.. Income from operation of the Vitória, Brazil cokemaking facility may be affected by global and regional economic and political factors and the policies and actions of the Brazilian government.. The Vitória cokemaking facility is owned ArcelorMittal Brazil. We earn income from the Vitória, Brazil operations through licensing and operating fees earned at the Brazilian cokemaking facility payable to us under long-term agreements with ArcelorMittal Brazil. These revenues depend on continuing operations and, in some cases, certain minimum production levels being achieved at the Vitória cokemaking facility. In the past, the Brazilian economy has been characterized by frequent and occasionally extensive intervention by the Brazilian government and unstable economic cycles. The Brazilian government has changed in the past, and may change monetary, taxation, credit, tariff and other policies to influence Brazil's economy in the future. If the operations at Vitória cokemaking facility are interrupted or if certain minimum production levels are not achieved, we will not be able to earn the same licensing and operating fees as we are currently earning, which could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Certain provisions in our long-term coke agreements may result in economic penalties to us, or may result in termination of our coke sales agreements for failure to meet minimum volume requirements or other required specifications, and certain provisions in these agreements and our energy sales agreements may permit our customers to suspend performance.. Our agreements for the supply of coke, energy and/or steam, contain provisions requiring us to supply minimum volumes of our products to our customers. To the extent we do not meet these minimum volumes, we are generally required under the terms of our coke sales agreements to procure replacement supply to our customers at the applicable contract price or potentially be subject to cover damages for any shortfall. If future shortfalls occur, we will work with our customer to identify possible other supply sources while we implement operating improvements at the facility, but we may not be successful in identifying alternative supplies and may be subject to paying the contract price for any shortfall or to cover damages, either of which could adversely affect our future revenues and profitability. Our coke sales agreements also contain provisions requiring us to deliver coke that meets certain quality thresholds. Failure to meet these specifications could result in economic penalties, including price adjustments, the rejection of deliveries or termination of our agreements.. Our coke and energy sales agreements contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspension of performance by our customers for the duration of specified events beyond the control of our customers. Declaration of force majeure, coupled with a lengthy suspension of performance under one or more coke or energy sales agreements, may seriously and adversely affect our cash flows, financial position and results of operations.. To the extent we do not meet coal-to-coke yield standards in our coke sales agreements, we are responsible for the cost of the excess coal used in the cokemaking process, which could adversely impact our results of operations and profitability.. Our ability to pass through our coal costs to our customers under our coke sales agreements is generally subject to our ability to meet some form of coal-to-coke yield standard. To the extent that we do not meet the yield standard in the contract, we are responsible for the cost of the excess coal used in the cokemaking process. We may not be able to meet the yield standards at all times, and as a result we may suffer lower margins on our coke sales and our results of operations and profitability could be adversely affected.. 24. Table of Contents. Failure to maintain effective quality control systems at our cokemaking facilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. The quality of our coke is critical to the success of our business. For instance, our coke sales agreements contain provisions requiring us to deliver coke that meets certain quality thresholds. If our coke fails to meet such specifications, we could be subject to significant contractual damages or contract terminations, and our sales could be negatively affected. The quality of our coke depends significantly on the effectiveness of our quality control systems, which, in turn, depends on a number of factors, including the design of our quality control systems, our quality-training program, our laboratories and our ability to ensure that our employees adhere to our quality control policies and guidelines. Any significant failure or deterioration of our quality control systems could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. If we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from planned maintenance activities, oven re-builds, and additional measures to control costs at our Indiana Harbor cokemaking operations, our future financial performance, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. Since the third quarter of 2015, when we implemented a plan to address deteriorating coke oven conditions and improve plant performance, and environmental compliance at our Indiana Harbor cokemaking operations, we have rebuilt more than half of the coke ovens at that facility. However, unexpected costs and challenges may arise and there is a risk of continuing mechanical failures and deterioration of assets leading to production curtailments, shutdowns or additional expenditures at our Indiana Harbor operations, any or all of which could significantly disrupt our coke production and our ability to supply coke to our customer.. If the implementation of these systematic planned maintenance activities to improve operating performance at Indiana Harbor (and related additional measures to control and benchmark costs) do not produce the expected benefits, our future financial performance, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. Disruptions to our supply of coal and coal mixing services may reduce the amount of coke we produce and deliver, and if we are not able to cover the shortfall in coal supply or obtain replacement mixing services from other providers, our results of operations and profitability could be adversely affected.. Substantially all of the metallurgical coal used to produce coke at our cokemaking facilities, is purchased from third-parties under one-year contracts, except for the Jewell facility, which purchases a substantial portion of its metallurgical coal under a five-year contract with prices reset annually. We cannot assure that there will continue to be an ample supply of metallurgical coal available or that these facilities will be supplied without any significant disruption in coke production, as economic, environmental, and other conditions outside of our control may reduce our ability to source sufficient amounts of coal for our forecasted operational needs. If we are not able to make up the shortfalls resulting from such supply failures through purchases of coal from other sources, the failure of our coal suppliers to meet their supply commitments could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and, ultimately, impact the structural integrity of our coke oven batteries.. At our Granite City and Haverhill cokemaking facilities, we rely on third-parties to mix coals that we have purchased into coal mixes that we use to produce coke. We have entered into long-term agreements with coal mixing service providers that are coterminous with our coke sales agreements. However, there are limited alternative providers of coal mixing services and any disruptions from our current service providers could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, if our rail transportation agreements are terminated, we may have to pay higher rates to access rail lines or make alternative transportation arrangements.. Limitations on the availability and reliability of transportation, and increases in transportation costs, particularly rail systems, could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain a supply of coal and deliver coke to our customers.. Our ability to obtain coal depends primarily on third-party rail systems and to a lesser extent river barges. If we are unable to obtain rail or other transportation services, or are unable to do so on a cost-effective basis, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Alternative transportation and delivery systems are generally inadequate and not suitable to handle the quantity of our shipments or to ensure timely delivery. The loss of access to rail capacity could create temporary disruption until the access is restored, significantly impairing our ability to receive coal and resulting in materially decreased revenues. Our ability to open new cokemaking facilities may also be affected by the availability and cost of rail or other transportation systems available for servicing these facilities.. Our coke production obligations at our Jewell cokemaking facility and one half of our Haverhill cokemaking facility require us to deliver coke to certain customers via railcar. We have entered into long-term rail transportation agreements to meet these obligations. Disruption of these transportation services because of weather-related problems,. 25. Table of Contents. mechanical difficulties, train derailments, infrastructure damage, strikes, lock-outs, lack of fuel or maintenance items, fuel costs, transportation delays, accidents, terrorism, domestic catastrophe or other events could temporarily, or over the long-term, impair our ability to produce coke, and therefore, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. If we are unable to effectively protect our intellectual property, third parties may use our technology, which would impair our ability to compete in our markets.. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain meaningful patent protection for certain of our technologies and products throughout the world. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. We rely on patents to protect a significant part our intellectual property portfolio and to enhance our competitive position. However, our presently pending or future patent applications may not issue as patents, and any patent previously issued to us or our subsidiaries may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented. Furthermore, the claims in patents that have been issued to us or our subsidiaries or that may be issued to us in the future may not be sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from using cokemaking technologies and heat recovery processes similar to ours. In addition, the laws of various foreign countries in which we plan to compete may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. If we fail to obtain adequate patent protection for our proprietary technology, our ability to be commercially competitive may be materially impaired.. Risks Related to Our Logistics Business. The growth and success of our logistics business depends upon our ability to find and contract for adequate throughput volumes, and an extended decline in demand for coal could affect the customers for our logistics business adversely.  As a consequence, the operating results and cash flows of our logistics business could be materially and adversely affected.. The financial results of our logistics business segment are significantly affected by the demand for both thermal coal and metallurgical coal.  An extended decline in our customers' demand for either thermal or metallurgical coals could result in a reduced need for the coal mixing, terminalling and transloading services we offer, thus reducing throughput and utilization of our logistics assets.  Demand for such coals may fluctuate due to factors beyond our control:. • Thermal coal demand: may be impacted by changes in the energy consumption pattern of industrial consumers, electricity generators and residential users, as well as weather conditions and extreme temperatures.  The amount of thermal coal consumed for electric power generation is affected primarily by the overall demand for electricity, the availability, quality and price of competing fuels for power generation, and governmental regulation. For example, over the past few years, production of natural gas in the U.S. has increased dramatically, which has resulted in lower natural-gas prices. As a result of sustained low natural gas prices, coal-fuel generation plants have been displaced by natural-gas fueled generation plants. In addition, state and federal mandates for increased use of electricity from renewable energy sources, or the retrofitting of existing coal-fired generators with pollution control systems, also could adversely impact the demand for thermal coal. Finally, unusually warm winter weather may reduce the commercial and residential needs for heat and electricity which, in turn, may reduce the demand for thermal coal; and. • Metallurgical coal demand: may be impacted adversely by economic downturns resulting in decreased demand for steel and an overall decline in steel production.  A decline in blast furnace production of steel may reduce the demand for furnace coke, an intermediate product made from metallurgical coal.  Decreased demand for metallurgical coal also may result from increased steel industry utilization of processes that do not use, or reduce the need for, furnace coke, such as electric arc furnaces, or blast furnace injection of pulverized coal or natural gas.. CMT is impacted by seaborne export market dynamics.  Fluctuations in the benchmark price for coal delivery into northwest Europe, as referenced in the API2 index price, influence our customers' decisions to place tons into the export market and thus impact transloading volumes through our terminal facility.. Additionally, fluctuations in the market price of coal can greatly affect production rates and investments by third-parties in the development of new and existing coal reserves.  Mining activity may decrease as spot coal prices decrease. We have no control over the level of mining activity by coal producers, which may be affected by prevailing and projected coal prices, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of coal reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulation and the availability and cost of capital.  A material decrease in coal mining production in the areas of operation for our logistics business, whether as a result of depressed commodity prices or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of coal processed through our logistics facilities, which would reduce our revenues and operating income.. 26. Table of Contents. Decreased demand for thermal or metallurgical coals, and extended or substantial price declines for coal could adversely affect our operating results for future periods and our ability to generate cash flows necessary to improve productivity and expand operations.  The cash flows associated with our logistics business may decline unless we are able to secure new volumes of coal by attracting additional customers to these operations.  Future growth and profitability of our logistics business segment will depend, in part, upon whether we can contract for additional coal and other bulk commodity volumes at a rate greater than that of any decline in volumes from existing customers.  Accordingly, decreased demand for coal, or other bulk commodities, or a decrease in the market price of coal, or other bulk commodities, could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations or financial condition of our logistics business.. The geographic location of the Convent Marine Terminal could expose us to potential significant liabilities, including operational hazards and unforeseen business interruptions, that could substantially and adversely affect our future financial performance.. CMT is located in the Gulf Coast region, and its operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions, including interruptions from hurricanes or floods, which have historically impacted the region with some regularity.  If any of these events were to occur, we could incur substantial losses because of personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, and pollution or other environmental damage resulting in curtailment or suspension of our related operations.. Risks Related to Our Legacy Coal Mining Business. Our former coal mining operations were subject to governmental regulations pertaining to employee health and safety and mandated benefits for retired coal miners.  Following the divestiture of our coal mining operations, compliance with such regulations has continued to impose significant costs on our business.. Our former coal mining operations were subject to strict regulation by federal, state and local authorities with respect to environmental matters such as reclamation, and to matters such as employee health and safety and mandated benefits for retired coal miners.  Even after divestiture of our coal mining business, compliance with these reclamation and benefits requirements has continued to impose significant costs on us.  As a former coal mine operator, federal law required us to secure payment of federal black lung benefits to claimants who were employees, and to contribute to a trust fund for payment of benefits and medical expenses to claimants who last worked in the coal industry before January 1, 1970.  At December 31, 2017, our liabilities for coal workers' black lung benefits totaled approximately $50.3 million.  Our business could be materially and adversely harmed if these liabilities, including the number and award size of claims, were increased. See \"Item 1. Business-Legal and Regulatory Requirements-Other Regulatory Requirements.\". Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Your percentage ownership in us may be diluted by future issuances of capital stock or securities or instruments that are convertible into our capital stock, which could reduce your influence over matters on which stockholders vote.. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without action or vote of our stockholders, to issue all or any part of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock, including shares issuable upon the exercise of options, shares that may be issued to satisfy our obligations under our incentive plans, shares of our authorized but unissued preferred stock and securities and instruments that are convertible into our common stock. Issuances of common stock or voting preferred stock would reduce your influence over matters on which our stockholders vote and, in the case of issuances of preferred stock, likely would result in your interest in us being subject to the prior rights of holders of that preferred stock.. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock may be limited by restrictive covenants in our debt agreements and by other factors.. Our Board of Directors has suspended the Company's dividend. Any declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock will be limited by restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements, and will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that our Board of Directors deems relevant.. Further, we may not have sufficient surplus under Delaware law to be able to pay any dividends in the future.  The absence of sufficient surplus may result from extraordinary cash expenses, actual expenses exceeding contemplated costs, funding of capital expenditures or increases in reserves.. 27. Table of Contents. Provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation, our amended and restated by-laws and the Delaware General Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\") could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could deter or prevent a change in control.. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include:. • a Board of Directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms;. • action by written consent of stockholders may only be taken unanimously by holders of all our shares of common stock;. • rules regarding how our stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings;. • the right of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval;. • limitations on the right of stockholders to remove directors; and. • limitations on our ability to be acquired.. The DGCL also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock.. We believe that these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors and by providing our Board of Directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board of Directors determines is in our best interests and that of our stockholders.. Any or all of the foregoing provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.. A person or group could establish a substantial position in SunCoke Energy, Inc. stock.. We do not have a shareholder rights plan which may make it easier for a person or group to acquire a substantial position in SunCoke Energy, Inc. stock.  Such person or group may have interests adverse to the interests of our other stockholders.. Risks Related to Our Master Limited Partnership. We own a significant equity interest in the Partnership.. We own the general partner of the Partnership, which holds a 2.0 percent ownership interest and IDRs, and we currently own a 59.9 percent limited partner interest in the Partnership. The Partnership holds a 98 percent interest in each of three entities that own our Haverhill, Ohio, Middletown, Ohio, and Granite City, Illinois cokemaking facilities and related assets.  The Partnership also owns terminals and related assets that provide handling and/or mixing services of coal and other aggregates in Louisiana and West Virginia. All of the Partnership's coke sales, and certain of its logistics services, are made pursuant to long-term, take-or-pay agreements, and our financial statements include the consolidated results of the Partnership.  The Partnership is subject to operating and regulatory risks which are substantially similar to our own.  The occurrence of any of these risks could directly or indirectly affect the Partnership's, as well as our, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as the Partnership is a consolidated subsidiary.  For additional information about the Partnership, see \"Cokemaking Operations\" and \"Formation of a Master Limited Partnership\" in Business and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Operating Results (Items 1 and 7), respectively.. We derive a portion of our cash flows from the quarterly cash distributions we receive due to our equity ownership interest in the Partnership.  If the Partnership is unable to generate sufficient cash flow, its ability to pay quarterly distributions to unitholders (including us) at current levels, or to increase its quarterly distributions in the future, could adversely impact our cash position.. The Partnership's ability to pay quarterly distributions depends primarily on cash flow. The Partnership's ability to generate sufficient cash from operations is largely dependent upon its ability to successfully manage its business which may be affected by economic, financial, competitive, and regulatory factors beyond the Partnership's control.  To the extent the Partnership does not have adequate cash reserves, its ability to pay quarterly distributions to its common unitholders (including us) at current levels, or to increase its quarterly distributions in the future, could be adversely affected.  Due to. 28. Table of Contents. our equity ownership interest in the Partnership, we derive a portion of our cash flows from the quarterly cash distributions we receive.  If we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from the Partnership at current or increased levels, our cash position could be adversely affected.. We are party to an omnibus agreement with the Partnership that exposes us to various risks and uncertainties.. In connection with the initial public offering of the Partnership and the related contribution to the Partnership of an interest in each of our Haverhill, Ohio and Middletown, Ohio cokemaking facilities, we entered into an omnibus agreement with the Partnership.  This omnibus agreement was later amended in connection with the contribution to the Partnership of an interest in our Granite City, Illinois cokemaking assets. Pursuant to this omnibus agreement, we have agreed to grant the Partnership preferential rights to pursue certain growth opportunities we identify in the U.S. and Canada and a right of first offer to acquire certain of our cokemaking assets located in the U.S. and Canada for so long as we control the Partnership's general partner. Pursuant to this agreement, we have agreed to indemnify the Partnership for certain environmental remediation projects costs arising prior to the contribution of the interests in the Haverhill, Ohio, Middletown, Ohio and Granite City, Illinois cokemaking facilities. The omnibus agreement further provides that we will fully indemnify the Partnership with respect to certain tax liabilities arising prior to, or in connection with, the contribution of the interests in the Haverhill, Ohio, Middletown, Ohio and Granite City, Illinois cokemaking facilities, and that we will cure or fully indemnify the Partnership for losses resulting from certain title defects at the properties owned by the Partnership or its subsidiaries. Our obligations and the extent of our exposures that may arise under the omnibus agreement are subject to various contingencies and cannot be estimated with certainty at this time.. The value of our investment in the Partnership depends on the Partnership's status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as the Partnership not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. The Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") has issued final regulations which would result in the Partnership being treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes and subject to entity-level taxation beginning January 1, 2028.  In addition, the IRS may challenge the Partnership's status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes from the time of the Partnership's initial public offering. If the IRS were to treat the Partnership as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or the Partnership were to become subject to material additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then the value of our investment in the Partnership could be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of our investment in the Partnership depends largely on the Partnership being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that the Partnership is organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, the Partnership would be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless more than 90 percent of its income is from certain specified sources (the \"Qualifying Income Exception\") under Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\").. On January 19, 2017, the IRS and the U.S. Department of Treasury issued qualifying income regulations (the \"Final Regulations\") regarding the Qualifying Income Exception.  The Final Regulations were published in the Federal Register on January 24, 2017, and apply to taxable years beginning on or after January 19, 2017.  Under the Final Regulations, the Partnership's cokemaking operations have been excluded from the definition of qualifying income activities, subject to a ten-year transition period.  As a result, the following consequences might ensue:. • If the Partnership's income from cokemaking operations \"was qualified income under the statute as reasonably interpreted prior to May 6, 2015,\" then the Partnership will have a transition period ending on December 31, 2027, during which it can treat income from its existing cokemaking activities as qualifying income.  The Partnership's transitional status during this period is likely to impair the growth prospects of the Partnership, and we do not expect that the Partnership would acquire additional cokemaking operations from third parties or from us without receipt of an IRS private letter ruling confirming the availability of the transition period as applied to the income from such an acquisition.. • The IRS might challenge treatment by the Partnership of income from its cokemaking operations as qualifying income by asserting that such treatment did not rely upon a reasonable interpretation of the statute prior to May 6, 2015. If so, nothing would preclude the IRS from challenging the Partnership's status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes from the time of the Partnership's initial public offering.  If this challenge were to occur and prevail, (i) the Partnership would be taxed retroactively as if it were a corporation at federal and state tax rates, likely resulting in a material amount of taxable income and taxes in certain open years, (ii) historical and future distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions and (iii) no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits recognized by the Partnership would flow to unitholders of the Partnership.  This would result in a material reduction in the Partnership's cash flow. 29. Table of Contents. and after-tax return to the Partnership's unitholders and the recording of an income tax provision and a reduction in net income.. If, notwithstanding our confidence regarding the Partnership's eligibility to use the transition period based on the Partnership's belief and a legal opinion from outside counsel, the IRS were to challenge the Partnership's eligibility to qualify for the transition period or the Partnership's position that it has satisfied the Qualifying Income Exception from the time of its IPO, the Partnership would vigorously disagree with such a challenge, although we can provide no assurance of the Partnership's likelihood of, or costs associated with, prevailing. For more information, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis-Final Regulations\".. A successful IRS contest of the federal income tax positions the Partnership takes may impact adversely the market for its common units, and the costs of any IRS contest could reduce the Partnership's cash available for distribution to unitholders, including us. If the Partnership were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, it would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 21 percent, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Because tax would be imposed upon the Partnership as a corporation, its after tax earnings and therefore its ability to distribute cash to us would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of the Partnership as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the Partnership's anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our investment in the Partnership.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in the Partnership's common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including the Partnership, or an investment in its common units, may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Moreover, any such modification could make it more difficult or impossible for the Partnership to meet the exception which allows publicly traded partnerships that generate qualifying income to be treated as partnerships (rather than corporations) for U.S. federal income tax purposes, affect or cause us to change our business activities, or affect the tax consequences of an investment in its common units.  For example, as discussed above, on January 24, 2017, Final Regulations were published in the Federal Register and apply to taxable years beginning on or after January 19, 2017.  The Final Regulations will likely affect the Partnership's ability to continue to qualify as a publicly traded partnership."
