[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. <U+FEFF>. The following information should be read in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained in Part II, Item 7 and the consolidated financial statements and related notes contained in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as in conjunction with the matters contained under the caption \"Forward-Looking Statements\" at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. <U+FEFF>. The following discussion of \"risk factors\" identifies the most significant risks or uncertainties that could (i) materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or prospects, as well as the market value of our securities, or (ii) cause our actual results to differ materially from our anticipated results or other expectations.  These risks are not the only risks that we face.  Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the U.S. and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations.  These risks include:. Our business depends on conditions in the oil and gas industry, especially oil and natural gas prices and capital expenditures by oil and gas companies.. Our business depends on the level of oil and natural gas exploration, development and production activity by oil and gas companies worldwide.  The level of exploration, development and production activity is directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices, which historically have been volatile and difficult to predict.  Oil and natural gas prices are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand, economic growth trends, market uncertainty and a variety of other factors beyond our control.  Lower oil and natural gas prices generally lead to decreased spending by our customers.  While higher oil and natural gas prices generally lead to increased spending by our customers, sustained high energy prices can also be an impediment to economic growth and can therefore negatively impact spending by our customers.  Our customers may also take into account the volatility of energy prices and other risk factors by requiring higher returns for individual projects if there is higher perceived risk.  Any of these factors could significantly affect the demand for oil and natural gas, which could affect the level of capital spending by our customers and in turn could have a material effect on our results of operations.. The availability of quality drilling prospects, exploration success, relative production costs, expectations about future oil and natural gas demand and prices, the stage of reservoir development, the availability of financing, and political and regulatory environments are also expected to affect levels of exploration, development, and production activity, which would impact the demand for our services.  Any prolonged reduction of oil and natural gas prices, as well as anticipated declines, could also result in lower levels of exploration, development, and production activity.. The demand for our services may be affected by numerous factors, including the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and natural gas;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdemand for energy, which is affected by worldwide economic activity, population growth and market expectations regarding future trends;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ability of Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and other key oil-producing countries to set and maintain production levels for oil;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe level of excess production capacity;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe discovery rate of new oil and natural gas reserves;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdomestic and global political and economic uncertainty, socio-political unrest and instability, terrorism or hostilities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tweather conditions and changes in weather patterns, including summer and winter temperatures that impact demand;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe availability, proximity and capacity of transportation facilities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\toil refining capacity and shifts in end-customer preferences toward fuel efficiency;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe level and effect of trading in commodity future markets, including trading by commodity price speculators and others;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdemand for and availability of alternative, competing sources of energy;. 8. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe extent to which taxes, tax credits, environmental regulations, auctions of mineral rights, drilling permits, drilling concessions, drilling moratoriums or other governmental regulations, actions or policies affect the production, cost of production, price or availability of petroleum products and alternative energy sources; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttechnological advances affecting energy exploration, production and consumption.. The oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by significantly reduced demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge.  Moreover, weakness in the oil and gas industry may adversely impact the financial position of our customers, which in turn could cause them to fail to pay amounts owed to us in a timely manner or at all.  Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. We have outstanding debt obligations that could limit our ability to fund future growth and operations and increase our exposure to risk during adverse economic conditions.. At December 31, 2017, we had $1.3 billion in outstanding debt obligations.  Many factors, including factors beyond our control, may affect our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness.  These factors include those discussed elsewhere in these Risk Factors and those listed in the \"Forward-Looking Statements\" section included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Our existing debt and associated commitments could have important adverse consequences.  For example, these commitments could:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake it more difficult for us to satisfy our contractual obligations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincrease our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other corporate requirements;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tplace us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or less restrictive covenants in such debt; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit our ability to refinance our debt in the future or borrow additional funds.. There are operating hazards inherent in the oil and gas industry that could expose us to substantial liabilities.. Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the oil and gas industry that may lead to property damage, personal injury, death or the discharge of hazardous materials into the environment.  Many of these events are outside of our control.  Typically, we provide products and services at a well site where our personnel and equipment are located together with personnel and equipment of our customer and other service providers.  From time to time, personnel are injured or equipment or property is damaged or destroyed as a result of accidents, failed equipment, faulty products or services, failure of safety measures, uncontained formation pressures or other dangers inherent in oil and natural gas exploration, development and production.  Any of these events can be the result of human error or purely accidental, and it may be difficult or impossible to definitively determine the ultimate cause of the event or whose personnel or equipment contributed thereto.  All of these risks expose us to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks and potentially substantial litigation claims for damages.  With increasing frequency, our products and services are deployed in more challenging exploration, development and production locations.  From time to time, customers and third parties may seek to hold us accountable for damages and costs incurred as a result of an accident, including pollution, even under circumstances where we believe we did not cause or contribute to the accident.  Our insurance policies are subject to exclusions, limitations and other conditions, and may not protect us against liability for some types of events, including events involving a well blowout, or against losses from business interruption.  Moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate or on terms that we deem commercially reasonable.  Any damages or losses that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or subject to substantial deductibles or retentions, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 9. Table of Contents. We may not be fully indemnified against losses incurred due to catastrophic events.. As is customary in our industry, our contracts generally provide that we will indemnify and hold harmless our customers from any claims arising from personal injury or death of our employees, damage to or loss of our equipment, and pollution emanating from our equipment and services.  Similarly, our customers generally agree to indemnify and hold us harmless from any claims arising from personal injury or death of their employees, damage to or loss of their equipment or property, and pollution caused from their equipment or the well reservoir (including uncontained oil flow from a reservoir).  Our indemnification arrangements may not protect us in every case.  For example, from time to time we may enter into contracts with less favorable indemnities or perform work without a contract that protects us.  In addition, our indemnification rights may not fully protect us if we cannot prove that we are entitled to be indemnified or if the customer is bankrupt or insolvent, does not maintain adequate insurance or otherwise does not possess sufficient resources to indemnify us.  In addition, our indemnification rights may be held unenforceable in some jurisdictions.. Our customers' changing views on risk allocation could cause us to accept greater risk to win new business or could result in us losing business if we are not prepared to take such risks.  To the extent that we accept such additional risk, and insure against it, our insurance premiums could rise.. From time to time, we are subject to various claims, litigation and other proceedings that could ultimately be resolved against us, requiring material future cash payments or charges, which could impair our financial condition or results of operations.. The size, nature and complexity of our business make us susceptible to various claims, both in litigation and binding arbitration proceedings.  We may in the future become subject to various claims, which, if not resolved within amounts we have accrued, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  Similarly, any claims, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future.. The credit risks of our customer base could result in losses.. Many of our customers are oil and gas companies that are facing liquidity constraints in light of the current commodity price environment.  These customers impact our overall exposure to credit risk as they are also affected by prolonged changes in economic and industry conditions.  If a significant number of our customers experience a prolonged business decline or disruptions, we may incur increased exposure to credit risk and bad debts.. Increased regulation of or limiting or banning hydraulic fracturing and wastewater disposal could reduce or eliminate demand for our pressure pumping and fluid management services.. Our customers rely on hydraulic fracturing in conducting exploration and production operations.  Hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions and similar agencies.  However, the practice of hydraulically fracturing formations to stimulate the production of natural gas and oil remains under increased scrutiny from federal, state and local governmental authorities.  Various federal legislative and regulatory initiatives have been undertaken which could result in additional requirements or restrictions being imposed on hydraulic fracturing operations.  Federal agencies, including the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Bureau of Land Management (BLM), have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of hydraulic fracturing within their specific jurisdiction.  For example, the EPA has issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to collect data on chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing operations under Section 8 of the Toxic Substances Control Act, and has enacted, and recently proposed additional New Source Performance Standards for certain aspects of the hydraulic fracturing process.  From time to time, Congress has considered legislative measures to regulate hydraulic fracturing, including the imposition of chemical disclosure and permitting requirements.. At the state level, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure, and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities.  Local governments may also seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of, or prohibiting the performance of, drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular.. In addition, in recent years there have been various legislative and regulatory initiatives intended to address seismic activity associated with disposal wells.  Developing research suggests that the link between seismic activity and wastewater disposal may vary by region, and that only a very small fraction of the tens of thousands of injection wells have been suspected to be, or have been, the likely cause of induced seismicity.  The United States Geological Survey identified certain states with the most significant hazards from induced seismicity, including states where we operate, such as Oklahoma, Texas and Colorado.  In response to concerns regarding induced seismicity, regulators in some states have imposed, or are considering imposing, additional requirements in the permitting of produced water disposal wells in proximity to faults.  For example, Oklahoma implemented plans restricting or suspending disposal well operations of certain wells where seismic incidents have occurred. In particular, hydraulic fracturing operations in the Oklahoma SCOOP and STACK, where we conduct operations may be suspended following earthquakes of certain magnitudes in the vicinity. In addition, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission's Oil and Gas Conservation Division issued an order limiting future increases in the volume of. 10. Table of Contents. oil and natural gas wastewater injected into the ground in an effort to reduce the number of earthquakes in the state. The Texas Railroad Commission adopted similar rules in 2014. Furthermore, ongoing lawsuits allege that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. These developments could result in additional regulation and restrictions on the use of injection wells. Increased regulation and attention given to induced seismicity could lead to greater opposition to oil and gas activities utilizing injection wells for waste disposal.. The adoption of additional legislation or regulation could impose further requirements or limitations, such as restrictions on the use of certain chemicals or prohibitions on hydraulic fracturing and disposal of wastewater in certain areas, which could impact our and our customers operations, and demand for our services.. Adverse and unusual weather conditions may affect our operations.. Our operations may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate.  Severe weather, such as hurricanes, high winds and seas, blizzards and extreme temperatures may cause evacuation of personnel, curtailment of services and suspension of operations, inability to deliver materials to jobsites in accordance with contract schedules, loss of or damage to equipment and facilities and reduced productivity.  In addition, variations from normal weather patterns can have a significant impact on demand for oil and natural gas, thereby reducing demand for our services and equipment.. Necessary capital financing may not be available at economic rates or at all.. Turmoil in the credit and financial markets could adversely affect financial institutions, inhibit lending and limit our access to funding through borrowings under our credit facility or newly created facilities in the public or private capital markets on terms we believe to be reasonable.  Prevailing market conditions could be adversely affected by the ongoing disruptions in domestic or overseas sovereign or corporate debt markets, low commodity prices or other factors impacting our business, contractions or limited growth in the economy or other similar adverse economic developments in the U.S. or abroad.  Instability in the global financial markets has from time to time resulted in periodic volatility in the capital markets.  This volatility could limit our access to the credit markets, leading to higher borrowing costs or, in some cases, the inability to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all.  Any such failure to obtain additional financing could jeopardize our ability to repay, refinance or reduce our debt obligations, or to meet our other financial commitments.. Our inability to retain key employees and skilled workers could adversely affect our operations.. Our performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain certain key employees and skilled technical personnel.  Our ability to continue to expand the scope of our services and products depends in part on our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force.  The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or the inability to employ or retain skilled technical personnel could adversely affect our operating results.  In the past, the demand for skilled personnel has been high and the supply limited.  We have experienced increases in labor costs in recent years and may continue to do so in the future.. Our international operations and revenue are affected by political, economic and other uncertainties worldwide.. In 2017, we conducted business in more than 50 countries, and we intend to expand our international operations.. Our international operations are subject to varying degrees of regulation in each of the foreign jurisdictions in which we provide services. Local laws and regulations, and their interpretation and enforcement, differ significantly among those jurisdictions, and can change significantly over time.  Future regulatory, judicial and legislative changes or interpretations may have a material adverse effect on our ability to deliver services within various foreign jurisdictions.. In addition to these international regulatory risks, our international operations are subject to a number of other risks inherent in any business operating in foreign countries, including, but not limited to, the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpolitical, social and economic instability;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential expropriation, seizure or nationalization of assets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinflation;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdeprivation of contract rights;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreased operating costs;. 11. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinability to collect receivables and longer receipt of payment cycles;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcivil unrest and protests, strikes, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timport-export quotas or restrictions, including tariffs and the risk of fines or penalties assessed for violations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tconfiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcurrency exchange controls;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcurrency exchange rate fluctuations, devaluations and conversion restrictions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential submission of disputes to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpandemics or epidemics that disrupt our ability to transport personnel or equipment;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tembargoes or other restrictive governmental actions that could limit our ability to operate in foreign countries;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditional U.S. and other regulation of non-domestic operations, including regulation under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the FCPA) as well as other anti-corruption laws;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestrictions on the repatriation of funds;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimitations in the availability, amount or terms of insurance coverage;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe risk that our international customers may have reduced access to credit because of higher interest rates, reduced bank lending or a deterioration in our customers' or their lenders' financial condition;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe burden of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws and regulations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe imposition of unanticipated or increased environmental and safety regulations or other forms of public or governmental regulation that increase our operating expenses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcomplications associated with installing, operating and repairing equipment in remote locations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe geographic, time zone, language and cultural differences among personnel in different areas of the world; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchallenges in staffing and managing international operations.. These and the other risks outlined above could cause us to curtail or terminate operations, result in the loss of personnel or assets, disrupt financial and commercial markets and generate greater political and economic instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate.  International areas where we operate that have significant risk include the Middle East, Angola, Colombia, Indonesia and Nigeria.. Laws, regulations or practices in foreign countries could materially restrict our operations or expose us to additional risks.. In many countries around the world where we do business, all or a significant portion of the decision making regarding procuring our services and products is controlled by state-owned oil companies.  State-owned oil companies or prevailing laws may (i) require us to meet local content or hiring requirements or other local standards, (ii) restrict with whom we can contract or (iii) otherwise limit the scope of operations that we can legally or practically conduct.  Our inability or failure to meet these requirements, standards or restrictions may adversely impact our operations in those countries.  In addition, our ability to work with state-owned oil companies is subject to our ability to negotiate and agree upon acceptable contract terms, and to enforce those terms.  In addition, many state-owned oil companies may require integrated contracts or turnkey contracts that could require us to provide services outside our core businesses. Providing services on an integrated or turnkey basis generally requires us to assume additional risks.. Moreover, in order to effectively compete in certain foreign jurisdictions, it is frequently necessary or required to establish joint ventures or strategic alliances with local contractors, partners or agents.  In certain instances, these local contractors, partners or agents may have interests that are not always aligned with ours.  Reliance on local contractors, partners or agents could expose us to the risk of being unable to control the scope or quality of our overseas services or products, or being held liable under the FCPA, or other anti-corruption. 12. Table of Contents. laws for actions taken by our strategic or local contractors, partners or agents even though these contractors, partners or agents may not themselves be subject to the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws.  Any determination that we have violated the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, reputation or prospects.. Changes in tax laws or tax rates, adverse positions taken by taxing authorities and tax audits could impact our operating results.. We are subject to the jurisdiction of a significant number of domestic and foreign taxing authorities.  Changes in tax laws or tax rates, the resolution of tax assessments or audits by various tax authorities could impact our operating results.  In addition, we may periodically restructure our legal entity organization.  If taxing authorities were to disagree with our tax positions in connection with any such restructurings, our effective income tax rate could be impacted.  The final determination of our income tax liabilities involves the interpretation of local tax laws, tax treaties and related authorities in each taxing jurisdiction, as well as the significant use of estimates and assumptions regarding future operations and results and the timing of income and expenses.  We may be audited and receive tax assessments from taxing authorities that may result in assessment of additional taxes that are ultimately resolved with the authorities or through the courts.  We believe these assessments may occasionally be based on erroneous and even arbitrary interpretations of local tax law.  Resolution of any tax matter involves uncertainties and there are no assurances that the outcomes will be favorable.    The U.S. recently enacted significant tax reform, and certain provisions of the new law may adversely affect us.  If U.S. or other foreign tax authorities change applicable tax laws, our overall taxes could increase, and our business, financial condition or results of operating may be adversely impacted.. We are subject to environmental, worker health and safety laws and regulations, which could reduce our business opportunities and revenue, and increase our costs and liabilities.. Our business is significantly affected by a wide range of environmental and worker health and safety laws and regulations in the areas in which we operate, including increasingly rigorous environmental laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management.  Generally, these laws and regulations have become more stringent and have sought to impose greater liability on a larger number of potentially responsible parties.  The Macondo well explosion in 2010 resulted in additional regulation of our offshore operations, and similar onshore or offshore accidents in the future could result in additional increases in regulation.  Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including assessment of monetary penalties, imposition of remedial requirements and issuance of injunctions as to future compliance.. Environmental laws and regulations may provide for \"strict liability\" for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior owners or operators or other third parties.  Strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party.  Some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances.  For example, our well service and fluids businesses routinely involve the handling of significant amounts of waste materials, some of which are classified as hazardous substances.  We also store, transport and use radioactive and explosive materials in certain of our operations.  In addition, many of our current and former facilities are, or have been, used for industrial purposes.  Accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the containment and disposal of hazardous substances, oilfield waste and other waste materials, the use of radioactive materials, the use of underground injection wells, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances.  In addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new domestic or foreign laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations.. In addition, we and our customers may need to apply for or amend facility permits or licenses from time to time with respect to storm water or wastewater discharges, waste handling, or air emissions relating to manufacturing activities or equipment operations, which subjects us and our customers to new or revised permitting conditions that may be onerous or costly to comply with.. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs) could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas our customers produce.. Increasing concerns that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases (GHGs) may endanger public health and produce climate changes with significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, droughts and other climatic events, have drawn significant attention from government agencies and environmental advocacy groups.  In response, additional costly requirements and restrictions have been imposed on the oil and gas industry to regulate and reduce the emission of GHG's.. Specifically, the EPA has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act (CAA) which increase operational costs by requiring the monitoring and annual reporting of GHG emissions from oil and gas production, processing, transmission and storage facilities in the United States.  Although, the U.S. Congress has considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, significant legislation has not yet been adopted to reduce GHG emissions at the federal level.  In the absence of such federal climate legislation, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking and/or reducing GHG emissions through the completion of. 13. Table of Contents. GHG emissions inventories and through cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of GHG emissions to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting GHGs.  Given the long-term trend towards increasing regulation, future federal GHG regulations of the oil and gas industry remain a possibility.    Additionally, in December 2015, the United States joined the international community at the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France that proposed an agreement requiring member countries to review and \"represent a progression\" in their intended nationally determined contributions, which set GHG emission reduction goals every five years beginning in 2020. This agreement was signed by the United States in April 2016 and entered into force in November 2016. The United States is one of over 120 nations having ratified or otherwise consented to the agreement; however this agreement does not create any binding obligations for nations to limit their GHG emissions, but rather includes pledges to voluntarily limit or reduce future emissions. In June 2017, President Trump announced that the United States intends to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and to seek negotiations either to reenter the Paris Agreement on different terms or a separate agreement. In August 2017, the U.S. Department of State officially informed the United Nations of the intent of the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement provides for a four-year exit process beginning when it took effect in November 2016, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020. The United States' adherence to the exit process and/or the terms on which the United States may re-enter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time.. In addition to governmental regulations, our customers are also requiring additional equipment upgrades to address the growing concerns of GHG emission and climate change which result in higher operational costs for service providers such as us.  Despite taking additional measures to reduce GHG emissions, there is the possibility that the demand for fossil fuels may nevertheless decrease due to such concerns.. At this stage, we cannot predict the impact of these or other initiatives on our or our customers operations, nor can we predict whether, or which of, other currently pending greenhouse gas emission proposals will be adopted, or what other actions may be taken by domestic or international regulatory bodies.  The potential passage of climate change regulation may curtail production and demand for fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our products and services, which may in turn adversely affect future results of operations.. If we are not able to design, develop, and produce commercially competitive products and to implement commercially competitive services in a timely manner in response to changes in the market, customer requirements, competitive pressures, and technology trends, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. The market for oilfield services in which we operate is highly competitive and includes numerous small companies capable of competing effectively in our markets on a local basis, as well as several large companies that possess substantially greater financial resources than we do.  Contracts are traditionally awarded on the basis of competitive bids or direct negotiations with customers.. The market for our services and products is characterized by continual technological developments to provide better and more reliable performance and services.  If we are not able to design, develop, and produce commercially competitive products and to implement commercially competitive services in a timely manner in response to changes in the market, customer requirements, competitive pressures, and technology trends, our business and consolidated results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Likewise, if our proprietary technologies, equipment, facilities, or work processes become obsolete, we may no longer be competitive, and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.  In addition, we may be disadvantaged competitively and financially by a significant movement of exploration and production operations to areas of the world in which we are not currently active.. We are affected by global economic factors and political events.. Our financial results depend on demand for our services and products in the U.S. and the international markets in which we operate. Declining economic conditions, or negative perceptions about economic conditions, could result in a substantial decrease in demand for our services and products.  World political events could also result in further U.S. military actions, terrorist attacks and related unrest.  Military action by the U.S. or other nations could escalate and further acts of terrorism may occur in the U.S. or elsewhere.  Such acts of terrorism could lead to, among other things, a loss of our investment in the country, impairment of the safety of our employees, extortion or kidnapping, and impairment of our ability to conduct our operations.  Such developments have caused instability in the world's financial and insurance markets in the past, and many experts believe that a confluence of worldwide factors could result in a prolonged period of economic uncertainty and slow growth in the future.  In addition, any of these developments could lead to increased volatility in prices for oil and gas and could affect the markets for our products and services.  Insurance premiums could also increase and coverages may be unavailable.. Uncertain economic conditions and instability make it particularly difficult for us to forecast demand trends.  The timing and extent of any changes to currently prevailing market conditions is uncertain and may affect demand for many of our services and products. Consequently, we may not be able to accurately predict future economic conditions or the effect of such conditions on demand for our services and products and our results of operations or financial condition.. 14. Table of Contents. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or divestitures.. We continually seek opportunities to increase efficiency and value through various transactions, including purchases or sales of assets or businesses.   These transactions are intended to result in the offering of new services or products, the entry into new markets, the generation of income or cash, the creation of efficiencies or the reduction of risk.  Whether we realize the anticipated benefits from an acquisition or any other transactions depends, in part, upon our ability to timely and efficiently integrate the operations of the acquired business, the performance of the underlying product and service portfolio, and the management team and other personnel of the acquired operations.  Accordingly, our financial results could be adversely affected from unanticipated performance issues, legacy liabilities, transaction-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles, charges for impairment of long-term assets, credit guarantees, partner performance and indemnifications.  In addition, the financing of any future acquisition completed by us could adversely impact our capital structure or increase our leverage.  While we believe that we have established appropriate and adequate procedures and processes to mitigate these risks, there is no assurance that these transactions will be successful.  We also may make strategic divestitures from time to time.  These transactions may result in continued financial involvement in the divested businesses, such as guarantees or other financial arrangements, following the transaction.  Nonperformance by those divested businesses could affect our future financial results through additional payment obligations, higher costs or asset write-downs.  Except as required by law or applicable securities exchange listing standards, we do not expect to ask our shareholders to vote on any proposed acquisition or divestiture.  Moreover, we generally do not announce our acquisitions or divestitures until we have entered into a preliminary or definitive agreement.. Our operations may be subject to cyber-attacks that could have an adverse effect on our business operations.. Like most companies, we rely heavily on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, to manage or support a variety of our business operations, and to maintain various records, which may include information regarding our customers, employees or other third parties, and the integrity of these systems are essential for us to conduct our business and operations.  We make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and systems (and maintain contingency plans in the event of security breaches or system disruptions), however, we cannot provide assurance that our security efforts and measures will prevent security threats from materializing, unauthorized access to our systems, loss or destruction of data, account takeovers, or other forms of cyber-attacks or similar events, whether caused by mechanical failures, human error, fraud, malice, sabotage or otherwise.  Cyber-attacks include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data.  The frequency, scope and sophistication of cyber-attacks continue to grow, which increases the possibility that our security measures will be unable to prevent our systems' improper functioning or the improper disclosure of proprietary information.  Any failure of our information or communication systems, whether caused by attacks, mechanical failures, natural disasters or otherwise, could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, or subject us to claims, any of which could materially adversely affect us.. We depend on particular suppliers and are vulnerable to product shortages and price increases.. Some of the materials that we use are obtained from a limited group of suppliers.  Our reliance on these suppliers involves several risks, including price increases, inferior quality and a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply in a timely manner.  We do not have long-term contracts with most of these sources, and the partial or complete loss of certain of these sources could have a negative impact on our results of operations and could damage our customer relationships.  Further, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these materials could have a negative impact on our results of operations.. Estimates of our oil and natural gas reserves and potential liabilities relating to our oil and natural gas property may be incorrect.. Actual future production, cash flows, development expenditures, operating and abandonment expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from those estimated by us and any significant variance in these assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantity and value of our proved reserves.  Therefore, the risk exists we may overestimate the value of economically recoverable reserves or underestimate the cost of plugging wells and abandoning production facilities.  If costs of abandonment are materially greater or actual reserves are materially lower than our estimates, this could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Potential changes of Bureau of Ocean Energy Management security and bonding requirements for offshore platforms could impact our operating cash flows and results of operations.. Federal oil and natural gas leases contain standard terms and require compliance with detailed Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) and BOEM regulations and orders issued pursuant to various federal laws, including the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act.  In 2016 BOEM undertook a review of its historical policies and procedures for determining a lessee's ability to decommission platforms on the Outer Continental Shelf and whether lessees should furnish additional security, and in July 2016, BOEM issued a new Notice to Lessees requiring additional security for decommissioning activities.  In January 2017, BOEM extended the. 15. Table of Contents. implementation timeline for properties with co-lessees by an additional six months, and in June 2017 announced that the Notice to lessees would be stayed while BOEM continued to review its implementation issues and continued industry engagement to gather additional information on the financial assurance program. We cannot predict whether these laws and regulations may change in the future, particularly in connection with the transition of presidential administrations.. During the second half of 2016, BSEE increased its estimates of many offshore operator's decommissioning costs, including the decommissioning costs at our sole federal offshore oil and gas property, Bullwinkle. Our subsidiary owns a 51% non-operating interest in Bullwinkle.  In October 2016, BOEM sent an initial proposal letter to the operator of Bullwinkle, proposing an increase in the supplemental bonding requirement for the property's sole fixed platform that was eight to ten times higher than the revised supplemental bonding requirement requested for any other deep-water fixed platform in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico.  Both the operator and our subsidiary submitted formal dispute notices, asserting that the estimates in the October 2016 proposal letter may be based on erroneous or arbitrary estimates of the potential decommissioning costs, and requesting in-person meetings to discuss the estimate.  We asked that BSEE and BOEM reduce the estimate to an amount that more closely approximates actual decommissioning costs, consistent with estimates identified by BSEE and BOEM for similar deep-water platforms. BSEE and BOEM have not yet responded to our dispute notice. If BOEM ultimately issues a formal order and we are unable to obtain the additional required bonds or assurances, BOEM may suspend or cancel operations at the Bullwinkle Platform or otherwise impose monetary penalties. Any of these actions could have a material effect on our financial condition, operating cash flows and liquidity.. Business growth could outpace the capabilities of our infrastructure and workforce.. We cannot be certain that our infrastructure and workforce will be adequate to support our operations as we expand in the future.  Future growth also could impose significant additional demands on our resources, resulting in additional responsibilities of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers, executives and operating personnel.  We cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain such additional personnel.  Moreover, we may need to expend significant time and money in the future to integrate and unify our systems and infrastructure.  To the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our business plan.. The price of our common stock may be volatile.. Some of the factors that could affect the price of our common stock are quarterly increases or decreases in revenue or earnings, changes in revenue or earnings estimates by the investment community and speculation in the press or investment community about our financial condition or results of operations.  General market conditions and U.S. or international economic factors and political events unrelated to our performance may also affect our stock price.  For these reasons, investors should not rely on recent trends in the price of our common stock to predict the future price of our common stock or our financial results."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
