[1] "Item 1A.     Risk Factors. Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks, and many of those risks are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. The following discussion addresses those risks that management believes are the most significant. You should take those risks into account in evaluating or making any investment decision involving the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that we currently believe to be less significant may also adversely affect us.. Risks Relating To Our Industry. We face intense competition within our industry and our revenue and/or profits may decrease if we are not able to respond to this competition effectively.. Customers in the uniform and corporate identity apparel industry and in the promotional products industry choose suppliers primarily based upon the quality, price and breadth of products offered. We encounter competition from a number of companies in the geographic areas we serve. Major competitors for our Uniforms and Related Products segment include publicly held companies such as Cintas Corporation, Unifirst Corporation, as well as ARAMARK — a division of ARAMARK Corporation. Major competitors for our Promotional Products segment include companies such as Staples, Inc. and BDA, Inc.. We also compete with a multitude of foreign, regional and local competitors that vary by market. If our existing or future competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices, we may be required to lower our prices, which would adversely affect our operating results. Similarly, if customers or potential customers perceive the products offered by our existing or future competitors to be of higher quality than ours or part of a broader product mix, our revenues may decline, which would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, our competitors generally compete with us for acquisition candidates, which can increase the price for acquisitions and reduce the number of acquisition candidates available to us.. 6. Regional or national economic slowdowns, high unemployment levels, or cost increases might have an adverse effect on our operating results.. Our primary products are provided to workers employed by our customers and, as a result, our business prospects are dependent upon levels of employment and overall economic conditions, among other factors. Our revenues are impacted by our customers’ opening and closing of locations and reductions and increases in headcount, including from voluntary turnover, which affect the quantity of uniform orders on a per-employee basis.. If we are unable to offset these effects through the addition of new customers (through acquisition or otherwise), the penetration of existing customers with a broader mix of product and service offerings, or decreased production costs that can be passed on in the form of lower prices, our revenue growth rates will be negatively impacted. Events or conditions in a particular geographic area, such as adverse weather and other factors, could also hurt our operating results. While we do not believe that our exposure is greater than that of our competitors, we could be adversely affected by increases in the prices of fabric, natural gas, gasoline, wages, employee benefits, insurance costs and other components of product cost unless we can recover such increases through proportional increases in the prices for our products and services. Competitive and general economic conditions might limit our ability and that of our competitors to increase prices to cover such increases in our product cost.. Volatility in the global financial markets could adversely affect results.. In the past, global financial markets have experienced extreme disruption, including, among other things, volatility in security prices, diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. In addition, global equity markets have been highly volatile recently. There can be no assurance that there will not be further change or volatility, which could lead to challenges in our business and negatively impact our financial results. The tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in orders and spending for our products and services. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of any disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions and the effects they may have on our business and financial condition.. The uniform and corporate identity apparel and promotional products industries are subject to pricing pressures that may cause us to lower the prices we charge for our products and adversely affect our financial performance.. Many of our competitors source their product requirements from developing countries to achieve a lower cost operating environment, possibly with lower costs than our offshore facilities, and those manufacturers may use these cost savings to reduce prices. To remain competitive, we must adjust our prices from time to time in response to these industry-wide pricing pressures. Moreover, increased customer demands for allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support could reduce our gross margins and affect our profitability. Our financial performance may be negatively affected by these pricing pressures if we are forced to reduce our prices and we cannot reduce our product costs proportionally or if our product costs increase and we cannot increase our prices proportionately.. Increases in the price of finished goods and raw materials used to manufacture our products could materially increase our costs and decrease our profitability.. The principal fabrics used for our uniforms are made from cotton, wool, silk, synthetic and cotton-synthetic blends. The principal components in our promotional products are plastic, glass, fabric and metal. The prices we pay for these fabrics and components and our finished goods are dependent on the market price for the raw materials used to produce them, primarily cotton and chemical components of synthetic fabrics including raw materials such as chemicals and dyestuffs. These finished goods and raw materials are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, economic and political climate, currency exchange rates, labor costs, and other unpredictable factors.  Fluctuations in petroleum prices also may influence the prices of related items such as chemicals, dyestuffs and polyester yarn.. Any increase in raw material prices increases our cost of sales and can decrease our profitability unless we are able to pass the costs on to our customers in the form of higher prices. In addition, if one or more of our competitors is able to reduce their production costs by taking advantage of any reductions in raw material prices or favorable sourcing agreements, we may face pricing pressures from those competitors and may be forced to reduce our prices or face a decline in net sales, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 7. Changes to trade regulation, quotas, duties or tariffs, caused by the changing U.S. and geopolitical environments or otherwise, may increase our costs or limit the amount of products that we can import.. Our operations are subject to various international trade agreements and regulations, such as the Dominican Republic–Central America Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA-DR), Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act (CBTPA), Haitian Hemispheric Opportunity through Partnership Encouragement Act, as amended (HOPE), the Food Conservation and Energy Act of 2008 (HOPE II), the Haiti Economic Lift Program of 2010 (HELP), the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA), and the activities and regulations of the World Trade Organization (WTO). Generally, these trade agreements benefit our business by reducing or eliminating the duties and/or quotas assessed on products manufactured in a particular country. However, trade agreements can also impose requirements that negatively affect our business, such as limiting the countries from which we can purchase raw materials or limiting the products that qualify as duty free, and setting duties or quotas on products that may be imported into the United States from a particular country. In addition, increased competition from developing countries could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. The countries in which our products are manufactured or into which they are imported may from time to time impose new quotas, duties, tariffs and requirements as to where raw materials must be purchased to qualify for free or reduced duty. These countries may also create additional workplace regulations or other restrictions on our imports or adversely modify existing restrictions. Adverse changes in these costs and restrictions could harm our business. We cannot assure you that future trade agreements will not provide our competitors an advantage over us, or increase our costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Nor can we assure you that the changing geopolitical and U.S. political environments will not result in a trade agreement or regulation being altered which adversely affects our company. Specifically, the current U.S. administration has voiced strong concerns about imports from countries that it perceives as engaging in unfair trade practices, and may decide to impose import duties or other restrictions on products or raw materials sourced from those countries, which may include China and other countries from which we import raw materials or in which we manufacture our products. Any such duties or restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. The corporate identity apparel and uniform industry is subject to changing fashion trends and if we misjudge consumer preferences, the image of one or more of our brands may suffer and the demand for our products may decrease.. The apparel industry, including uniforms and corporate identity apparel, is subject to shifting customer demands and evolving fashion trends and our success is also dependent upon our ability to anticipate and promptly respond to these changes. Failure to anticipate, identify or promptly react to changing trends or styles may result in decreased demand for our products, as well as excess inventories and markdowns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, if we misjudge consumer preferences, our brand image may be impaired. We believe our products are, however, in general, less subject to fashion trends compared to many other apparel manufacturers because we manufacture and sell uniforms, corporate identity apparel and other accessories.. Risks Relating To Our Business. Our success depends upon the continued protection of our trademarks and other intellectual property rights and we may be forced to incur substantial costs to maintain, defend, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights.. Our owned intellectual property and certain of our licensed intellectual property have significant value and are instrumental to our ability to market our products. While we own and use several trademarks, our “Fashion Seal Healthcare” mark is critically important to our business, as more than 22% of our products are sold under that name.  We cannot assure you that our owned or licensed intellectual property or the operation of our business does not infringe on or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others.  We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert claims against us on any such basis or that we will be able to successfully resolve such claims.  In addition, although we seek international protection of our intellectual property, the laws of some foreign countries may not allow us to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We could also incur substantial costs to defend legal actions relating to use of our intellectual property or prosecute legal actions against others using our intellectual property, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. There also can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate and conclude extensions of existing license agreements on similar economic terms or at all.. 8. Our customers may cancel or decrease the quantity of their orders, which could negatively impact our operating results.. Although we have long-standing customer relationships, we do not have long-term contracts with many of our customers. Sales to many of our customers are on an order-by-order basis. If we cannot fill customers’ orders on time, orders may be cancelled and relationships with customers may suffer, which could have an adverse effect on us, especially if the relationship is with a major customer. Furthermore, if any of our customers experience a significant downturn in their business, or fail to remain committed to our programs or brands, the customer may reduce or discontinue purchases from us. The reduction in the amount of our products purchased by customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. In addition, some of our customers have experienced significant changes and difficulties, including consolidation of ownership, increased centralization of buying decisions, restructurings, bankruptcies and liquidations. A significant adverse change in a customer relationship or in a customer’s financial position could cause us to limit or discontinue business with that customer, require us to assume more credit risk relating to that customer’s receivables or limit our ability to collect amounts related to previous purchases by that customer, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. We pursue acquisitions from time-to-time to expand our business, which may pose risks to our business.. We selectively pursue acquisitions from time to time as part of our growth strategy. We compete with others within our industry for suitable acquisition candidates. This competition may increase the price for acquisitions and reduce the number of acquisition candidates available to us. As a result, acquisition candidates may not be available to us in the future on favorable terms.. Even if we are able to acquire businesses on favorable terms, managing growth through acquisition is a difficult process that includes integration and training of personnel, combining plant and operating procedures, and additional matters related to the integration of acquired businesses within our existing organization. Unanticipated issues related to integration may result in additional expense and in disruption to our operations, and may require a disproportionate amount of our management’s attention, any of which could negatively impact our ability to achieve anticipated benefits, such as cost synergies. Growth of our business through acquisitions will also likely require us to increase our work force and the scope of our operating and financial systems and may require us to increase the geographic area of our operations. This would increase our operating complexity and the level of responsibility for both existing and new management personnel. Managing and sustaining our growth and expansion may require substantial enhancements to our operational and financial systems and controls, as well as additional administrative, operational and financial resources. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses or managing our expanding operations.. In addition, although we conduct due diligence investigations prior to each acquisition, there can be no assurance that we will discover or adequately protect against all material liabilities of an acquired business for which we may be responsible as a successor owner or operator. The failure to identify suitable acquisitions, successfully integrate these acquired businesses, successfully manage our expanding operations, or to discover liabilities associated with such businesses in the diligence process, could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. In order to finance such acquisitions, we may need to obtain additional funds either through public or private financings, including bank and other secured and unsecured borrowings and/or the issuance of equity or debt securities. There can be no assurance that such financings would be available to us on reasonable terms. Any future issuances of equity securities or debt securities with equity features may be dilutive to our shareholders.. If our information technology systems suffer interruptions or failures, including as a result of cyber-attacks, our business operations could be disrupted and our reputation could suffer.. We rely on information technology systems to process transactions, communicate with customers, manage our business, and process and maintain information The measures we have in place to monitor and protect our information technology systems might not offer sufficient protection from catastrophic events, power surges, viruses, malicious malware, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data or other types of cyber-based attacks. Cyber based attacks in particular are becoming more frequent, sophisticated and damaging. Any such events could product disruptions that result in an unexpected delay in operations, loss of confidential or otherwise protected information, corruption of data, and expenses related to the repair or replacement of our information technology systems. Compromising and/or loss of information could result in loss of sales or legal or regulatory claims which could adversely affect our revenues and profits or damage our reputation.. We have significant pension obligations with respect to our employees and our available cash flow may be adversely affected in the event that payments become due under any pension plans that are unfunded or underfunded.. A portion of our active and retired employees participate in defined benefit pension plans under which we are obligated to provide prescribed levels of benefits regardless of the value of the underlying assets, if any, of the applicable pension plan. If our obligations under a plan are unfunded or underfunded, we will have to use cash flow from operations and other sources to pay our obligations either as they become due or over some shorter funding period. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $8.4 million in unfunded or underfunded obligations related to our pension plans, compared to $9.5 million as of December 31, 2016.. 9. We are subject to international, federal, state and local laws and regulations and failure to comply with them may expose us to potential liability.. We are subject to international, federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our business, including those promulgated under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Consumer Product Safety Act, the Flammable Fabrics Act, the Textile Fiber Product Identification Act, the rules and regulations of the Consumer Products Safety Commission and various labor, workplace and related laws, as well as environmental laws and regulations. Failure to comply with such laws may expose us to potential liability and have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Shortages of supply of sourced goods or raw materials from suppliers, interruptions in our manufacturing, and local conditions in the countries in which we operate could adversely affect our results of operations.. We utilize multiple supply sources and manufacturing facilities. However, an unexpected interruption in any of the sources or facilities could temporarily adversely affect our results of operations until alternate sources or facilities can be secured. In 2017 and 2016, approximately 28% and 31%, respectively, of products for our Uniform and Related Products segment were sourced from or contained raw materials sourced from China. In 2017 and 2016, approximately 32% and 32%, respectively, of products for our Uniform and Related Products segment were obtained from suppliers located in Central America and Haiti. In 2017 and 2016, approximately 67% and 59%, respectively, of our products for our Promotional Products segment were sourced from China. If we are unable to continue to obtain our products from China, Central America and/or Haiti, it could significantly disrupt our business. Because we source products and raw materials and maintain operations in these locations, we are affected by economic and political conditions in those countries, including possible employee turnover, labor and other unrest and lack of developed infrastructure, as well as decisions by the U.S. government to impose or increase import duties or other import regulations.. Our business may be impacted by adverse weather and other unpredicted events. Our corporate headquarters is located in Florida, which is a hurricane-sensitive area. Should a hurricane occur, the possibly resulting infrastructure damage and disruption to the area could negatively affect Superior, such as by damage to, or total destruction of, our headquarters, surrounding transportation infrastructure, network communications, and other forms of communication. Some of our suppliers, such as those located in Central America and Haiti, are exposed to hurricanes and earthquakes; the damages that such events could produce could affect the supply of our products. In addition, similar disruptions to the business of our customers located in areas affected by hurricanes or earthquakes may adversely impact sales of our products.. Implementation of technology initiatives could disrupt our operations in the near term and fail to provide the anticipated benefits.. As our business grows, we continue to make significant investments in our technology, including in the areas of warehouse management and product design. The costs, potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of technology initiatives could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations in the near term. They may also require us to divert resources from our core business to ensure that implementation is successful. In addition, new or upgraded technology might not provide the anticipated benefits; it might take longer than expected to realize the anticipated benefits; the technology might fail or cost more than anticipated.. Our Remote Staffing Solutions business is dependent on the trend toward outsourcing.. Our business and growth depend in large part on the industry trend toward outsourced customer contact management services. Outsourcing means that an entity contracts with a third party, such as us, to provide customer contact services rather than perform such services in-house. There can be no assurance that this trend will continue, as organizations may elect to perform such services themselves. A significant change in this trend could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Inability to attract and retain key management or other personnel could adversely impact our business.. Our success is dependent on the skills, experience, and efforts of our senior management and other key personnel.  If, for any reason, one or more senior executive or key personnel was not to remain active in our company, or if we were unable to attract and retain senior management or key personnel, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. 10. Certain existing shareholders have significant control.. At December 31, 2017, our executive officers, Directors, and certain of their family members collectively owned 35.2% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, our executive officers and certain of their family members have significant influence over the election of our Board of Directors, the approval or disapproval of any other matters requiring shareholder approval, and the affairs and policies of our company."
