[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business faces significant risks, including credit, market and liquidity, operational, legal and regulatory and strategic and reputational risks. The factors described below are not intended to serve as a comprehensive listing of the risks we face and are generally applicable to more than one of the following categories of risks. Additional risks and uncertainties that we have not identified as material, or of we currently are not aware, may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following factors occurs, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Credit Risks. Because of the credit profile of our loan portfolio, our levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs can be volatile. We may need to make material provisions for loan losses in any period, which could reduce net income, increase net losses, or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition in that period.. Our loan portfolio has a credit profile different from that of most other banking companies. The credit profiles of our clients vary across our loan portfolio, based on the nature of the lending we do for different market segments. In our portfolios for early-stage and mid-stage privately-held companies, many of our loans are made to companies with modest or negative cash flows and/or no established record of profitable operations, primarily within the technology and life science and healthcare industries. Consequently, repayment of these loans is often dependent upon receipt by our borrowers of additional financing from venture capitalists or others, or in some cases, a successful sale to a third party, public offering or other form of liquidity or \"exit\" event. In recent periods, liquidity levels have been healthy and have improved. Many companies have been able to obtain liquidity through venture capital-backed financing as well as various other exit opportunities at relatively high valuations.  However, there can be no assurance that they will be able to continue to obtain funding at current valuation levels, if at all. If current economic conditions weaken or do not continue to improve, such activities may slow down, or valuations may drop in a meaningful manner, which may impact the financial health of our client companies. In such case, investors may provide financing in a more selective manner, at lower levels, and/or on less favorable terms, if at all, any of which may have an adverse effect on our borrowers' ability to repay their loans to us. In addition, because of the intense competition and rapid technological change that characterizes the technology, and life science and healthcare industry sectors in which most of our borrowers reside, as well as periodic volatility in the market prices for their securities, a borrower's financial position can deteriorate rapidly. Collateral for many of our loans often includes intellectual property and other intangible assets, which are difficult to value and may not be readily salable in the case of default. As a result, even if a loan is secured, we may not be able to fully recover the amounts owed to us, if at all.. In addition, a meaningful portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of our larger loans, which could increase the impact on us of any single borrower default.  As of December 31, 2017, gross loans equal to or greater than $20 million to any single client (individually or in the aggregate) totaled $10.5 billion, or 45.1 percent, of our portfolio.  These larger loans have over time represented, and continue to represent, an increasingly greater portion of our total loan portfolio.  They include capital call lines of credit to our private equity and venture capital clients, as well as other loans made to our later-stage and larger corporate clients, and may be made to companies with greater levels of debt relative to their equity, balance sheet liquidity, or cash flow.  Additionally, we have continued our efforts to grow our loan portfolio by agenting or arranging larger syndicated credit facilities and participating in larger syndicates agented by other financial institutions as well as making sponsor-led buyout loans, which are leveraged buyout or recapitalization financings typically sponsored by our private equity clients.  In those arrangements where we do not act as the lead syndicate agent, our control or decision-making ability over the credit facility is typically limited to our participation interest.. Further, the repayment of financing arrangements we enter into with our clients may be dependent on the financial condition or ability of third parties to meet their payment obligations to our clients.  For example, we enter into formula-based financing arrangements that are secured by our clients' accounts receivable from third parties with whom they do business.  We also make loans secured by letters of credit issued by other third party banks and enter into letters of credit discounting arrangements, the repayment of which may be dependent on the reimbursement by third party banks.  We also extend recurring revenue-based lines of credit, where repayment may be dependent on borrowers' revenues from third parties.  Further, in our loan portfolio of private equity and venture capital firm clients, many of our clients have lines of credit, the repayment of which are dependent. 21. Table of Contents. on the payment of capital calls or management fees by the underlying limited partner investors in the funds managed by these firms.  In recent periods, we have increased the levels of these capital call lines of credit.  These third parties may not be able to meet their financial obligations to our clients or to us which, ultimately, could have an adverse impact on us.. We also lend to private equity and venture capital professionals primarily through SVB Private Bank.  These individual clients may face difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during a challenging economic environment, and may be unable to repay their loans.  In certain instances, we may also relax loan covenants and conditions or extend loan terms to borrowers that are experiencing financial difficulties.  While such determinations are based on an assessment of various factors including access to additional capital in the near term, there can be no assurance that such continued support will result in any borrower meeting his or her financial commitments. In addition, we lend to premium wineries and vineyards through SVB Wine. Repayment of loans made to these clients may be dependent on overall wine demand and sales, or other sources of financing or income which may be adversely affected by a challenging economic environment, as well as overall grape supply which may be adversely affected by poor weather, heavy rains, flooding, droughts, fires, wildfires, earthquakes or other natural conditions.. Based on the credit profile of our overall loan portfolio, our level of nonperforming loans, loan charge-offs and allowance for loan losses can be volatile and can vary materially from period to period. Increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may require us to increase our provision for loan losses in any period, which could reduce our net income or cause net losses in that period. Additionally, such increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may also have an adverse effect on our capital ratios, credit ratings and market perceptions of us. See \"Loans\" under \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Consolidated Financial Condition\" under Part II, Item 7 of this report.. Our allowance for loan losses is determined based upon both objective and subjective factors, and may not be adequate to absorb loan losses.. As a lender, we face the risk that our borrower clients will fail to pay their loans when due.  If borrower defaults cause large aggregate losses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.  We reserve for such losses by establishing an allowance for loan losses, the increase of which results in a charge to our earnings as a provision for loan losses.  Although we have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses that uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the forecasts and establishment of loan losses are also dependent upon the subjective experience and judgment of our management.  Actual losses are difficult to forecast, especially if such losses stem from factors beyond our historical experience or are otherwise inconsistent with our credit quality assessments.  Moreover, banking regulators, as part of their supervisory function, periodically review our methodology, models and the underlying assumptions, estimates and assessments we make in determining the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses.  These regulators may conclude that changes are necessary, which could impact our overall credit portfolio.  Such changes could result in, among other things, modifications to our methodology or models, reclassification or downgrades of our loans, increases in our allowance for loan losses or other credit costs, imposition of new or more stringent concentration limits, restrictions in our lending activities and/or recognition of further losses.  There can be no assurance that our allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The borrowing needs of our clients may be unpredictable, especially during a challenging economic environment. We may not be able to meet our unfunded credit commitments, or adequately reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation.. A commitment to extend credit is a formal agreement to lend funds to a client as long as there is no violation of any condition established under the agreement.  The actual borrowing needs of our clients under these credit commitments have historically been lower than the contractual amount of the commitments.  As a result, we typically have a substantial amount of total unfunded credit commitments reflected off our balance sheet and a significant portion of these commitments ultimately expire without being drawn upon.  See Note 19 - \"Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements, Guarantees and Other Commitments\" of the \"Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements\" under Part II, Item 8 of this report for additional details.  However, the actual borrowing needs of our clients may exceed our expected funding requirements.  For example, our client companies may be more dependent on our credit commitments in a challenging economic environment due to the lack of available credit elsewhere, the increasing costs of credit through other channels, or the limited availability of financings from private equity or venture capital firms.  In addition, limited partner investors of our private equity and venture capital fund clients may fail to meet their underlying investment commitments due to liquidity or other financing difficulties, which may impact our clients' borrowing needs.  Any failure to meet our unfunded credit commitments in accordance with the actual borrowing needs of our clients may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation.. 22. Table of Contents. Further, although we have established a reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments, the level of the reserve is determined by a methodology similar to that used to establish our allowance for loan losses in our funded loan portfolio. While the reserve is susceptible to significant changes, it is primarily based on credit commitments outstanding less the amounts that have been funded, the amount of the unfunded portion that we expect to be utilized in the future, credit quality of the loan credit commitments, and management's estimates and judgment.  There can be no assurance that our allowance for unfunded credit commitments will be adequate to provide for actual losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments.  An increase in the allowance for unfunded credit commitments in any period may result in a charge to our earnings, which could reduce our net income or increase net losses in that period.. Market and Liquidity Risks. Our current level of interest rate spread may decline in the future. Any material reduction in our interest rate spread, caused by sustained periods of low market interest rates or changes in our clients' preferences for interest-bearing deposit products in periods of rising interest rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. A significant portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and internal borrowings, and the interest rates and fees we receive on our interest-earning assets such as loans extended to our clients, securities held in our investment portfolio and excess cash held to manage short-term liquidity.  Our interest rate spread can be affected by the mix of the types of loans, investment securities, deposits and other liabilities on our balance sheet, as well as a variety of external factors beyond our control that affect interest rate levels, such as competition, inflation, recession, global economic disruptions, unemployment and the fiscal and monetary policies of various governmental bodies.  For example, changes in key variable market interest rates, such as the Federal Funds, National Prime, the London Interbank Offered Rate (\"LIBOR\") or Treasury rates, generally impact our interest rate spread. While changes in interest rates do not generally produce equivalent changes in the revenues earned from our interest-earning assets and the expenses associated with our interest-bearing liabilities, increases in market interest rates are nevertheless likely to cause our interest rate spread to increase. Conversely, if interest rates decline, our interest rate spread will likely decline.  In response to the last global economic recession, the U.S. Federal Reserve and other central banking institutions took monetary policy actions, including the utilization of quantitative easing and created and maintained a low interest rate environment.  Over the last few years, interest rates have increased.  Since December 2015, the Federal Reserve has raised interest rates five times and may institute further changes in the future. Increases, or sustained periods of increases, in interest rates may result in a change in the mix of non-interest and interest bearing accounts, and the level of off-balance sheet market-based investment preferred by our clients, which may also impact our interest rate spread.  If interest rates decline or do not continue to rise, low rates could constrain our interest rate spread and may adversely affect our business forecasts.  In addition, changes in the method of determining LIBOR or other reference rates, or uncertainty related to such potential changes, may adversely affect the value of reference rate-linked debt securities that we hold or issue, which could further impact our interest rate spread.  Any material reduction in our interest rate spread could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial conditions.. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition.. Liquidity is essential to our business, both at the SVB Financial and the Bank level.  We require sufficient liquidity to meet our expected financial obligations, as well as unexpected requirements stemming from client activity and market changes.  Primary liquidity resources for SVB Financial include cash flow from investments and interest in financial assets held by operating subsidiaries other than the Bank; to the extent declared, dividends from the Bank, its main operating subsidiary; and as needed, periodic capital market transactions offering debt and equity instruments in the public and private markets.  The primary source of liquidity for the Bank is client deposits.  When needed, wholesale borrowing capacity in the form of short- and long-term borrowings secured by our portfolio of high quality investment securities, long-term capital market debt issuances and unsecured overnight funding channels available to us in the Federal Funds market supplement our liquidity.  An inability to maintain or raise funds through these sources could have a substantial negative effect, individually or collectively, on SVB Financial and the Bank's liquidity.  Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities, or on terms attractive to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general.  For example, factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us, a reduction in our credit rating, any damage to our reputation or any other decrease in depositor or investor confidence in our creditworthiness and business.  Our access to liquidity could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as severe volatility or disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about prospects for the financial services industry as a whole.  Any such event or failure to manage our liquidity effectively could affect our competitive position, increase our borrowing costs and the interest rates we pay on deposits, limit our access to the capital markets and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. 23. Table of Contents. Our equity warrant assets, venture capital and private equity fund investments and direct equity investment portfolio gains depend upon the performance of our portfolio investments and the general condition of the public and private equity and merger and acquisition markets, which are uncertain and may vary materially by period.. In connection with negotiated credit facilities and certain other services, we often obtain equity warrant assets giving us the right to acquire stock in private, venture-backed companies in the technology and life science and healthcare industries subject to applicable regulatory limits, we have also made investments through SVB Financial and our SVB Capital family of funds in venture capital funds and direct investments in companies, many of which are required to be carried at fair value or are impacted by changes in fair value.  The fair value of these warrants and investments are reflected in our financial statements and are adjusted on a quarterly basis.  Fair value changes are generally recorded as unrealized gains or losses through consolidated net income.  However, the timing and amount of changes in fair value, if any, of these financial instruments depend on factors beyond our control, including the perceived and actual performance of the companies or funds in which we invest, fluctuations in the market prices of the preferred or common stock of the portfolio companies, the timing of our receipt of relevant financial information from these companies, market volatility and interest rate factors and legal and contractual restrictions.  Moreover, the timing and amount of our realization of actual net proceeds, if any, from our disposition of these financial instruments also often depend on factors beyond our control.  In addition to those mentioned above, such factors include the level of public offering and merger and acquisition or other exit activity, legal and contractual restrictions on our ability to sell our equity positions (including the expiration of any \"lock-up\" agreements) and the timing of any actual dispositions.  Because of the inherent variability of these financial instruments and the markets in which they are bought and sold, their fair market value might increase or decrease materially from period to period, and the net proceeds ultimately realized upon disposition might be materially different than the then-current recorded fair market value.. In addition, depending on the fair value of these warrants and direct equity investments, a meaningful portion of the aggregate fair value of our total warrant and direct equity investment portfolios may, from time to time, be concentrated in a limited number of warrants and direct equity investments.  Valuation changes in one or more of these warrants or direct equity investments may have a material impact on the valuation of our total investment portfolio. We cannot predict future realized or unrealized gains or losses, and any such gains or losses are likely to vary materially from period to period.  See Note 13 - \"Derivative Financial Instruments\" of the \"Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements\" under Part II, Item 8 of this report for additional details.. Increase in public equity offerings, mergers and acquisitions or a slowdown in private equity or venture capital investment levels may reduce the borrowing needs of our clients, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. While an active market for public equity offerings, financings, and merger and acquisition activity generally has positive implications for our business, one negative consequence is that our clients may pay off or reduce their loans with us if they complete a public equity offering, are acquired by or merge with another entity or otherwise receive a significant equity investment. Moreover, our capital call lines of credit are typically utilized by our private equity and venture capital fund clients to make investments prior to receipt of capital called from their respective limited partners. A slowdown in overall private equity or venture capital investment levels may reduce the need for our clients to borrow from our capital call lines of credit. Any significant reduction in the outstanding amounts of our loans or under our lines of credit could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Operational Risks. If we fail to retain our key employees or recruit new employees, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We rely on key personnel, including a substantial number of employees who have technical expertise in their subject matter area and a strong network of relationships with individuals and institutions in the markets we serve. In addition, as we expand in international markets, we will need to hire local personnel within those markets. If we were to have less success in recruiting and retaining these employees than our competitors, for reasons including domestic or foreign regulatory restrictions on compensation practices or the availability of more attractive opportunities elsewhere, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Moreover, equity awards are an important component of our compensation program, especially for our executive officers and other members of senior management. The extent of shares available for grant in connection with such equity awards pursuant to our incentive compensation plans is generally subject to stockholder approval. Our grants are also subject to our. 24. Table of Contents. internal equity burn rate limit. If we do not have sufficient shares to grant to existing or new employees, there could be an adverse effect on our recruiting and retention efforts, which could impact our growth and results of operations.. The occurrence of fraudulent activity, breaches of our information security or cybersecurity-related incidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. As a financial institution, we are susceptible to fraudulent activity, information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents that could be committed against us or our clients, which may result in financial losses or increased costs to us or our clients, disclosure or misuse of our information or our client information, misappropriation of assets, privacy breaches against our clients, litigation, or damage to our reputation. Such fraudulent activity may take many forms, including check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, phishing, social engineering, malfeasance, and other dishonest acts. Information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents may include fraudulent or unauthorized access to systems used by us, our clients or third party partners, denial or degradation of service attacks, malware, or other cyber-attacks. Sources of attacks vary and may include hackers, disgruntled employees or vendors, organized crime, terrorists, foreign governments, corporate espionage and activists. In recent periods, there continues to be a rise in electronic fraudulent activity, security breaches and cyber-attacks within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting commercial bank accounts. Consistent with industry trends, we remain at risk for attempted electronic fraudulent activity, as well as attempts at security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents. These attempts can be, and in some cases have been, directed at us (including our employees, executives or directors), as well as our vendors or other third party partners. Moreover, in recent periods, large corporations (including financial institutions and retail companies), as well as U.S. governmental agencies, have suffered significant data breaches, in some cases exposing not only confidential and proprietary corporate information, but also sensitive financial and other personal information of their customers and employees and subjecting them to potential fraudulent activity. Some of our clients may have been affected by these breaches, which increase their risks of identity theft, credit card fraud and other fraudulent activity that could involve their accounts with us, which could subject us to potential liability. Additionally, state-sponsored or terrorist-sponsored efforts to hack or disable information technology systems increases risks, since the motivation may be for geopolitical as much as for financial gain.. Information pertaining to us and our clients is maintained, and transactions are executed, on our networks and systems, as well as those of our clients and certain of our third-party partners, such as our online banking or reporting systems. The secure maintenance and transmission of confidential information, as well as execution of transactions over these systems, are essential to protect us and our clients against fraud and security breaches and to maintain our clients' confidence. Breaches of information security also may occur, and in infrequent cases have occurred, through intentional or unintentional acts by those having access to our systems or our clients' or counterparties' confidential information, including employees and third-party contractors. In addition, SVB provides card transaction processing services to some merchant customers under agreements we have with those merchants and/or with the payment networks.  Under these agreements, we may be responsible for certain losses and penalties if one of our merchant customers suffers a data security breach. Furthermore, SVB's cardholders use their debit and credit cards to make purchases from third parties or through third-party processing services. As such, SVB is subject to risk from data breaches of such third-party's information systems or their payment processors, for reasons including unauthorized card use. Such a data security breach could compromise SVB's account information, cause losses on card accounts and increase litigation costs.  SVB may suffer losses associated with reimbursing our customers for such fraudulent transactions on customers' card accounts, as well as for other costs related to data security breaches, such as replacing cards associated with compromised card accounts.. We also offer certain services that allow non-accountholders to process payments through SVB's systems, as well as financial analytics services. In the course of providing those services, we may obtain sensitive data about customers who do not otherwise hold accounts with us, including information regarding accounts held at other institutions, as well as profit and loss and other proprietary financial or other information regarding our customers or the non-accountholders they service. In the event of a data breach, this sensitive information may be exposed and could subject us to claims for damages.. In addition, increases in criminal activity levels and sophistication, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, vulnerabilities in third-party technologies (including browsers and operating systems) or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls that we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect data about us, our clients and underlying transactions, as well as the technology used by our clients to access our systems.  The forms, methods, and sophistication of fraud, security breaches, cyber-attacks and other similar criminal activity continue to evolve, and as we evolve and grow our business, especially in new businesses or geographies, we may be unable to foresee future risks. Although we have developed, and continue to invest in, systems and processes that are designed to detect and prevent security breaches and cyber-attacks and periodically test our security, our inability to anticipate, or failure to adequately mitigate, fraudulent activities, breaches of security or cyber-attacks could result in: financial losses to us or our clients; our loss of business and/or clients; loss or exposure of our confidential data or information; damage to our reputation; the incurrence of additional expenses; loss of personnel; disruption to our business; force majeure claims by us or critical suppliers; our inability to grow our. 25. Table of Contents. online services or other businesses; additional regulatory scrutiny or penalties; or our exposure to civil litigation and possible financial liability --- any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Our risk mitigation strategies and internal controls, including risk assessment policies and procedures, testing, backup and redundancy systems, incident response plans, training, and authentication or encryption tools, may not be effective against defending against fraud, security breaches or cyber-attacks.. More generally, publicized information concerning security and cyber-related problems could inhibit the use or growth of electronic or web-based applications or solutions as a means of conducting commercial transactions. Such publicity may also cause damage to our reputation as a financial institution. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.. We face risks associated with the ability of our information technology systems and our people and processes to support our operations and future growth effectively.. Our information technology systems, people and internal business processes are critical to our operations and future growth.  Our systems may be subject to service outages from time to time due to various reasons, including infrastructure failures, interruptions due to system upgrades or malware removal, employee error or malfeasance, or other force majeure-related reasons, which could cause business disruption. Additionally, our systems and processes need to be sufficiently scalable to operate effectively, and we need to have the appropriate talent to support our business.  As a result, we continue to invest in technology and more automated solutions in order to optimize the efficiency of our core operational and administrative infrastructure.  In the absence of having effective automated solutions, we may rely on manual processes which may be more prone to error.  Moreover, as we evolve, we may further install or implement new systems and processes or otherwise replace, upgrade or make other modifications to our existing systems and processes.  These changes could be costly and require significant investment in the training of our employees and other third-party partners, as well as impose substantial demands on management time.  If  we do not implement new initiatives or utilize new technologies effectively or in accordance with regulatory requirements, or if our people (including outsourced business partners) are not appropriately trained or developed  or do not perform their functions properly, we could experience business interruptions or other system failures which, among other things, could result in inefficiencies, revenue losses, loss of clients, exposure to fraudulent activities, regulatory enforcement actions or damage to our reputation, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Business disruptions and interruptions due to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our operations can be subject to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control, such as earthquakes, fires, floods, severe weather, public health issues, power failures, telecommunication loss, major accidents, terrorist attacks, acts of war, and other natural and man-made events.  For example, our corporate headquarters and some of our critical business offices are located in California, near major earthquake faults.  An earthquake or other disaster could cause severe destruction, disruption or interruption to our operations or property.  We and other financial institutions generally must resume operations promptly following any interruption.  If we were to suffer a disruption or interruption and were not able to resume normal operations within a period consistent with industry standards, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected in a material manner.  In addition, depending on the nature and duration of the disruption or interruption, we might become vulnerable to fraud, additional expense or other losses, or to a loss of business and clients.  Although we have implemented a business continuity management program that we continue to enhance on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that the program will adequately mitigate the risks of such business disruptions and interruptions.. Additionally, natural disasters and external events, including those occurring in and around the state of California,  could affect the business and operations of our clients, which could impair their ability to pay their loans or fees when due, impair the value of collateral securing their loans, cause our clients to reduce their deposits with us, or otherwise adversely affect their business dealings with us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. A significant portion of our client borrowers, including our premium winery and vineyard clients, our SVB Private Bank mortgage clients and other corporate clients, are located in or have offices in the state of California, which has historically experienced severe natural disasters resulting in disruptions to businesses and damage to property, including wildfires in 2017 that impacted regions of Northern California where some of our premium wine clients are located. If there is a major earthquake, flood, fire, drought or other natural disaster in California or elsewhere in the markets in which we operate, our borrowers may experience uninsured property losses or sustained disruption to business or loss that may materially impair their ability to meet the terms of their loan obligations.. 26. Table of Contents. We face reputation and business risks due to our interactions with business partners, service providers and other third parties.. We rely on third parties, both in the United States and internationally in countries such as the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, China, Israel and India, to provide services to us and our clients or otherwise act as partners in our business activities in a variety of ways, including through the provision of key components of our business infrastructure. We expect these third parties to perform services for us, fulfill their obligations to us, accurately inform us of relevant information, and conduct their activities in a manner that reflects positively on our brand and business. Although we manage exposure to such third party risk through a variety of means including the performance of due diligence and ongoing monitoring of vendor performance, there can be no assurance these efforts will be effective. Any failure of our business partners, service providers or other third parties to meet their commitments to us or to perform in accordance with our expectations could result in operational disruptions, increased expenditures, regulatory actions in which we may be held responsible for the actions of third parties, damage to our reputation and the loss of clients, which in turn could harm our business and operations, strategic growth objectives and financial performance.. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.. Financial services institutions are interrelated because of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships.  We routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, payment processors, and other institutional clients, which may result in payment obligations to us or to our clients due to products we have arranged.  Many of these transactions expose us to credit and market risk that may cause our counterparty or client to default. In addition, we are exposed to market risk when the collateral we hold cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the secured obligation.  Any losses arising from such occurrences could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other information relating to their business or financial condition.  We also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports or other certifications of their auditors or accountants. For example, under our accounts receivable financing arrangements, we rely on information, such as invoices, contracts and other supporting documentation, provided by our clients and their account debtors to determine the amount of credit to extend. Similarly, in deciding whether to extend credit, we may rely upon our customers' representations that their financial statements conform to U.S. GAAP (or other applicable accounting standards in foreign markets) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer.  If we rely on materially misleading, false, inaccurate or fraudulent information in evaluating the credit-worthiness or other risk-profiles of our clients or counterparties, we could be subject to loan losses, regulatory action, reputational harm or experience other adverse effects on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. They require management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are uncertain.. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations.  Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with U.S. GAAP and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition or results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under an alternative policy or method.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential holders of our securities could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our securities.. Maintaining and adapting our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules and regulations of the SEC, can be costly and require significant management attention. As we continue to grow, our internal controls may become more complex and require additional resources to ensure they remain effective amidst dynamic regulatory and other guidance. Failure to maintain effective controls or implement required new or improved controls or difficulties encountered in the process may harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent registered accounting firm identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement costly and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. We may also. 27. Table of Contents. face regulatory enforcement or other actions, including the potential delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Stock Market. This could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as the trading price of our securities, and could potentially subject us to litigation.. We face risks associated with our current international operations and ongoing international expansion.. One important component of our strategy is to expand internationally. We currently have international offices in the United Kingdom, Israel, Hong Kong and China, including a joint-venture bank in China. We further plan to expand our operations and business activities in some of our current international markets, as well as expand our business beyond those markets, including Germany and Canada. Our efforts to expand our business internationally carry with them certain risks, including risks arising from the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenues from foreign operations; risks associated with leveraging and doing business with local business partners through joint ventures, strategic arrangements or other partnerships; and, other general operational risks. In addition, there are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others, legal, regulatory and tax requirements and restrictions, uncertainties regarding liability, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, the incremental requirement of management's attention and resources, differing technology standards or customer requirements, data security or transfer risks, cultural differences, political and economic risks such as uncertainty created by the approval of an advisory referendum by a majority of voters in the United Kingdom to the leave the European Union in June 2016, and financial risks, including currency and payment risks such as fluctuation in the value of the euro and Chinese yuan (renminbi). These risks could hinder our ability, or the ability of our local partners, to service our clients effectively, and adversely affect the success of our international operations, which in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our overall business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, we face risks that our employees and affiliates may fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing our international operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, U.K. Bribery Act, anti-corruption laws, privacy laws, economic and trade sanctions requirements and other foreign laws and regulations.  Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could, among other things, result in enforcement actions and fines against us, as well as limitations on our conduct, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Legal and Regulatory Risks. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, or result in higher costs to us, and the stringency of the regulatory framework applicable to us may increase if, and as, our asset size continues to grow.. SVB Financial Group, including the Bank, is extensively regulated under federal and state laws and regulations governing financial institutions, including those imposed by the FDIC, the Federal Reserve, the CFPB, and the DBO, as well as various regulatory authorities that govern our global activities.  Federal and state laws and regulations govern, restrict, limit or otherwise affect the activities in which we may engage and may affect our ability to expand our business over time, result in an increase in our compliance costs, including higher FDIC insurance premiums, and may affect our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers and employees. Further, the stringency of the federal bank prudential regulatory framework that applies to us may increase as our asset size and international business grows. As one example, under the Dodd-Frank Act and current Federal Reserve regulations, certain enhanced prudential standards will apply to us if we reach or exceed $50 billion in average total consolidated assets. In addition, federal regulations implementing the advanced approaches capital rules as well as the additional heightened standards noted above apply to banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more or $10 billion or more in on-balance sheet foreign exposure (which is a measure of international activity).  Compliance with any of these additional requirements could require a material investment of resources and lead to other limitations on our business and our ability to expand.  Further, a change in the applicable statutes, regulations or regulatory policy could have a material adverse effect on our business, including limiting or imposing conditions on the types of financial services and products we may offer or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. These laws and regulations also require financial institutions, including SVB Financial and the Bank, to maintain certain minimum levels of capital and meet other minimum financial standards, which may require us to raise additional capital in the future, affect our ability to use our capital resources for other business purposes or affect our overall business strategies and plans. Furthermore, following the 2008 financial crisis, the Basel Committee adopted additional capital, leverage and liquidity standards under Basel III, and has since finalized additional standards. Most notably, in December 2017, the Basel Committee published a set of revisions to its Basel III framework to address perceived weaknesses in the current methodology for calculating risk weighted assets, in particular to increase the risk-sensitivity of the standardized approach and to constrain banking organizations' discretion in modeling their capital requirements under models-based approaches (such as the advanced approaches in the United States). Following the adoption of the final standards, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the OCC announced on December 7, 2017 that they support the conclusion of efforts to reform the international bank capital standards in response to the global financial crisis, and that they would consider how to appropriately apply these revisions to the Basel III reform package in the United States through the standard notice-and-comment rulemaking process. The Federal Reserve previously has adopted regulations that generally align with international standards,. 28. Table of Contents. and have the effect of raising our capital requirements beyond those previously in place.  Such requirements include limitations on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executives if certain minimum capital requirements are not maintained.  The Federal Reserve also has adopted certain stress testing requirements, the results of which we are required to submit to the Federal Reserve and to disclose to the public. In addition, depending on the results of the stress tests, we could be required to raise additional capital or take certain other actions. Increased regulatory requirements (and the associated compliance costs), whether due to the growth of our business, the adoption of new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations, or more expansive or aggressive interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. If we continue to grow and meet regulatory thresholds that trigger enhanced standards, such as average total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more or $10 billion or more in foreign exposures, we will be subject to more stringent regulations, including enhanced prudential standards, required by the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve applicable to large bank holding companies.. As of December 31, 2017, our total consolidated assets were $51.2 billion and we had approximately $6.0 billion in on-balance sheet foreign exposures. Under the Federal Reserve's enhanced prudential standard regulations, SVB Financial would become subject to more stringent prudential standards if, whether as a result of organic growth, potential future acquisitions or otherwise, we averaged total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more at the end of a four-quarter period.  Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the more stringent prudential standards include requirements related to risk-based and leverage capital, liquidity, risk management, resolution planning, supervisory capital stress testing, single counterparty credit exposure limits, and early remediation - all of which require appropriate resources and planning.  The Dodd-Frank Act further permits, but does not require, the Federal Reserve to apply enhanced prudential standards to large bank holding companies in other areas, including short-term debt limits and enhanced public disclosures. Further, our international business continues to grow.  Crossing the Advanced Approaches Thresholds would trigger additional heightened requirements and compliance costs that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions or results of operations.  Our level of foreign exposures is determined based on our current understanding of applicable regulatory standards, guidance, interpretations, expectations and assumptions, and may be subject to change based on any modifications, clarifications or evolution of these standards, guidance, interpretations, expectations or assumptions.. If we become subject to such enhanced prudential standards, we will face more stringent requirements or limitations on our business, as well as increased compliance costs. For example, if we are subject to CCAR, the Federal Reserve may object to, or otherwise not respond favorably to our capital plan, capital actions or stress test results, and we may be limited as to how we utilize our capital, including with respect to common stock dividends and stock repurchases. In addition, if we become subject to the Federal Reserve's and the FDIC's resolution planning rules requiring us to submit plans for an orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure, and those agencies jointly determine that our resolution plan is not credible, and we fail to cure the deficiencies in a timely manner, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC may jointly impose on SVB Financial or our subsidiaries more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on growth, activities or operations, or require the divestment of assets or operations. Further, under the LCR rule, we would be required to measure specified unencumbered high-quality liquid assets against our expected net cash outflows, using the methodologies prescribed by the rule.  As a result of the rule's application, SVB Financial may be required to manage our holdings of high-quality liquid assets at levels beyond what we believe we need operationally in order to manage liquidity effectively.  Additionally, such an increase may also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations since high-quality liquid assets tend to carry lower yields. See \"Business-Supervision and Regulation-Enhanced Prudential Standards,\" under this Part I, Item 1, for a more detailed description of the various requirements which may become applicable to us.. We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act, other anti-money laundering and anti-bribery statutes and regulations, and U.S. economic and trade sanctions.. The Bank Secrecy Act, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with state and federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration, and Internal Revenue Service. We also must comply with U.S. economic and trade sanctions administered by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and we, like other financial institutions, are subject to increased scrutiny for compliance with these requirements.  We maintain policies, procedures and systems designed to detect and deter prohibited financing activities, however if these controls were deemed deficient, we could be subject to liability, including civil fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan.  In addition, any failure to effectively maintain and implement adequate. 29. Table of Contents. programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could have serious reputational consequences for us. Any of these results could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. If we were to violate, or fail to comply with, international, federal or state laws or regulations governing financial institutions, we could be subject to disciplinary action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation.. International, federal and state banking regulators possess broad powers to take supervisory or enforcement action with respect to financial institutions.  Other regulatory bodies, including the SEC, FINRA and state securities regulators, regulate investment advisers and broker-dealers, including our subsidiaries, SVB Asset Management and SVB Securities.  These regulations are highly complex, and if we were to violate, even if unintentionally or inadvertently, the laws and regulations governing financial institutions and broker-dealers, these regulatory authorities could take various actions against us, such as imposing restrictions on how we conduct our business, imposing higher capital and liquidity requirements, requiring us to maintain higher insurance levels, revoking necessary licenses or authorizations, imposing censures, civil money penalties or fines, issuing cease and desist or other supervisory orders, and suspending or expelling us or any of our employees from the securities business. These remedies and supervisory actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation.. Adverse results from litigation or governmental or regulatory investigations can impact our business practices and operating results.. We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings, and may from time to time be involved in governmental or regulatory investigations and inquiries relating to matters that arise in connection with the conduct of our business.  While we have not recognized a material accrual liability for any lawsuits and claims filed or pending against us to date, the outcome of litigation and other legal and regulatory matters is inherently uncertain and it is possible that the actual results of one or more of such matters may be substantially higher than the amounts reserved, or that judgments may be rendered, or fines or penalties assessed in matters for which we have no reserves. Further, adverse outcomes in lawsuits or investigations may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that may adversely affect our operating results or financial condition as well as our ability to conduct our businesses as they are presently being conducted. Moreover, even if we prevail in such actions, litigation and investigations can be costly and time-consuming, and often risks diverting the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements.. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or the SEC may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements.  Also, our global initiatives, as well as continuing trends towards the convergence of international accounting standards, such as rules that may be adopted under the International Financial Reporting Standards (\"IFRS\"), may result in our Company being subject to new or changing accounting and reporting standards. In addition, the bodies that interpret the accounting standards (such as banking regulators or outside auditors) may change their interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. These changes may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition or results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, or apply an existing standard differently, also retrospectively, in each case resulting in our revising or restating prior period financial statements.. Our holding company, SVB Financial, relies on equity warrant assets income, investment distributions and dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its cash revenues.. SVB Financial is a holding company and is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries.  It receives most of its cash revenues from three primary funding sources: income from our equity warrant assets and investment securities and, to the extent declared, cash dividends paid by its subsidiaries, primarily the Bank.  These sources generate cash which is used by SVB Financial to pay operating and borrowing costs and, to the extent authorized or declared, fund dividends to stockholders and stock repurchase programs.  Any income derived from those financial instruments is subject to a variety of factors as discussed in the \"Credit Risks\" portion of this \"Risk Factors\" section.  Moreover, various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay to SVB Financial. In addition, SVB Financial's right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a liquidation or reorganization of any of its subsidiaries is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors.. 30. Table of Contents. Anti-takeover provisions and federal laws, particularly those applicable to financial institutions, may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could prevent a merger or acquisition that may be attractive to stockholders and/or have a material adverse effect on our stock price.. As a bank holding company, we are subject to certain laws that could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us.  The Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, together with federal and state regulations, require that, depending on the particular circumstances, either the Federal Reserve must approve or after receiving notice, must not object to any person or entity acquiring \"control\" (as determined under the Federal Reserve's standards) of a bank holding company, such as SVB Financial, or a state member bank, such as the Bank.  In addition, DBO approval may be required in connection with the acquisition of control of the Bank.  Moreover, certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and certain other actions we may take or have taken could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, any of these laws, regulations and other provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to stockholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock.. Strategic, Reputational and Other Risks. Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses, or to the extent we establish internal concentration limits to mitigate such risk, lower revenues or a slow-down in growth.. Concentration of risk stemming from our focus on certain markets or segments, including those by client industry, life-cycle stage, size and geography, increases the potential for significant losses, or may result in lower revenues or slower growth, if we choose to limit growth in certain markets or segments to mitigate concentration risk.  While there may exist a great deal of diversity within each industry, our clients are concentrated within the following general industry niches: technology, life science and healthcare, private equity and venture capital and premium wine. In particular, our technology clients generally tend to be in the industries of hardware (semiconductors, communications, data storage and electronics), software/internet (such as infrastructure software, applications, software services, digital content and advertising technology), and energy and resource innovation. Our life science and healthcare clients are concentrated in the industries of biotechnology, medical devices, healthcare information technology and healthcare services.  Many of our client companies are also concentrated by certain stages within their life cycles, such as early-stage, mid-stage or later-stage and many of these companies are venture capital-backed.  We take deposits from these clients and are also continuing to increase our efforts to lend to larger clients and to make larger loans.  In addition, growth prospects and our geographic focus on key domestic and international innovation markets, as well as premium wine markets, may lead to an increase in our concentration risk.  Our loan concentrations are derived from our borrowers engaging in similar activities as well as certain types of loans extended to a diverse group of borrowers that could cause those borrowers to be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions.  Any adverse effect on any of our areas of concentration could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable to our competitors.. Decreases in the amount of equity capital available to our portfolio companies could adversely affect our business, growth and profitability.. Our core strategy is focused on providing banking products and services to companies, including in particular to early-stage and mid-stage companies that receive financial support from sophisticated investors, including venture capital or private equity firms, \"angels,\" corporate investors, crowd-funding and other evolving sources of capital.  We derive a meaningful share of our deposits from these companies and provide them with loans as well as other banking products and services. In some cases, our lending credit decision is based on our analysis of the likelihood that our client will receive additional rounds of equity capital from investors or other funding sources. Among the factors that have affected and could in the future affect the amount of capital available to our portfolio companies are the receptivity of the capital markets, the prevalence of public equity offerings or merger and acquisition activity, primarily among companies within the technology and life science/healthcare industry sectors, the availability and return on alternative investments, economic conditions in the technology, life science/healthcare and private equity/venture capital industries, and overall general economic conditions. Reduced capital markets valuations could also reduce the amount of capital available to our client companies, including companies within our technology and life science/healthcare industry sectors. If the amount of capital available to such companies decreases, it is likely that the number of our new clients and investor financial support to our existing clients could decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability and growth prospects.. We face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or future growth.. We compete with other banks as well as specialty and diversified financial services companies and investment and debt funds, some of which are larger than we are and which may offer a broader range of lending, leasing, payments, foreign currency exchange, and other financial products and advisory services to our client base.  We also compete with other alternative and. 31. Table of Contents. more specialized lenders, such as online \"marketplace\" lenders, peer-to-peer lenders and other non-traditional lenders that have emerged in recent years. Moreover, we compete with non-financial services, particularly payment facilitators and processors or other Fintech or nonbanking technology providers in the payments industry, which may offer specialized services to our client base. In addition, we compete with hedge funds and private equity funds. Such competitors may focus their marketing efforts on industry sectors which we serve and for example, seek to increase their lending and other financial relationships with technology companies or special industries such as wineries. When new competitors seek to enter one of our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, they sometimes undercut the pricing and/or credit terms prevalent in that market, which could adversely affect our market share or ability to exploit new market opportunities. We may be forced to accept less attractive credit, pricing and other investment terms if we act to meet these competitive challenges, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth. Similarly, competitive pressures and market disruption could adversely affect the business, results of operations, financial condition or future growth of our non-banking services, including our payments services, as well as our access to capital and attractive investment opportunities for our funds business.. Our ability to maintain or increase our market share depends on our ability to attract and maintain, as well as meet the needs of, existing and future clients.. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain or increase our market share.  In particular, much of our success depends on our ability to attract early-stage or start-up companies as clients and to retain those companies as clients as they grow and mature successfully through the various stages of their life cycles. As a result, we adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards as well as introduce new products and services beyond industry standards in order to serve our clients, who are innovators themselves.  A failure to achieve market acceptance for any new products or services we introduce, a failure to introduce products or services that the market demands, or the costs associated with developing, introducing and providing new products and services could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, growth prospects and financial condition.. We face risks in connection with our strategic undertakings and new business initiatives.. We are engaged, and may in the future engage, in strategic activities domestically or internationally, including acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships, investments or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful.. We are focused on our long-term growth and have undertaken various strategic activities and business initiatives, many of which involve activities that are new to us, or in some cases, are experimental in nature. For example, we are expanding our global presence and may engage in activities in jurisdictions where we have limited experience from a business, legal and/or regulatory perspective.  We are also expanding our payments processing capabilities to better serve our clients, including innovating new electronic payment processing solutions, developing new payments technologies, and supporting new or evolving disruptive payments systems. We may also serve clients that deal with new or evolving industries or business activities, such as digital currencies. Given our evolving geographic and product diversification, and our innovative product solutions, these payment-related initiatives may subject us to, among other risks, increased business, reputational and operational risk, as well as more complex legal, regulatory and compliance costs and risks.. Our ability to execute strategic activities and new business initiatives successfully will depend on a variety of factors. These factors likely will vary based on the nature of the activity but may include our success in integrating an acquired company or a new internally-developed growth initiative into our business, operations, services, products, personnel and systems, operating effectively with any partner with whom we elect to do business, meeting applicable regulatory requirements and obtaining applicable regulatory licenses or other approvals, hiring or retaining key employees, achieving anticipated synergies, meeting management's expectations, actually realizing the anticipated benefits of the activities, and overall general market conditions. Our ability to address these matters successfully cannot be assured. In addition, our strategic efforts may divert resources or management's attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and potential liability. If we do not successfully execute a strategic undertaking, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation or growth prospects. In addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations.. In addition, in order to finance future strategic undertakings, we might require additional financing, which might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If obtained, equity financing could be dilutive and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. 32. Table of Contents. Our business reputation and relationships are important and any damage to them could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our reputation is very important in sustaining our business and we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential clients and stockholders, the venture capital and private equity communities, and other actors in the industries that we serve.  Any damage to our reputation, whether arising from regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with SEC and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, the way in which we conduct our business or otherwise could strain our existing relationships and make it difficult for us to develop new relationships. Any such damage to our reputation and relationships could in turn lead to a material adverse effect on our business.. An ineffective risk management framework could have a material adverse effect on our strategic planning and our ability to mitigate risks and/or losses and could have adverse regulatory consequences.. We have implemented a risk management framework to identify and manage our risk exposure. This framework is comprised of various processes, systems and strategies, and is designed to manage the types of risk to which we are subject, including, among others, credit, market, liquidity, operational, capital, compliance, strategic and reputational risks. Our framework also includes financial, analytical, forecasting, or other modeling methodologies, which involves management assumptions and judgment.  In addition, our Board of Directors, in consultation with management, has adopted a risk appetite statement, which sets forth certain thresholds and limits to govern our overall risk profile. However, there is no assurance that our risk management framework, including the risk metrics under our risk appetite statement, will be effective under all circumstances or that it will adequately identify, manage or mitigate any risk or loss to us. If our risk management framework is not effective, we could suffer unexpected losses and become subject to regulatory consequences, as a result of which our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we grow to total average consolidated assets of $50 billion or greater or cross the Advanced Approaches Thresholds, we will become subject to more stringent risk management requirements that could increase our compliance costs and require us to further enhance our risk management framework and practices.  See the section \"Business-Supervision and Regulation-Enhanced Prudential Standards\" under this Part I, Item 1 of this report.. We rely on quantitative models to measure risks and to estimate certain financial values.. Quantitative models may be used to help manage certain aspects of our business and to assist with certain business decisions, including estimating probable loan losses, measuring the fair value of financial instruments when reliable market prices are unavailable, estimating the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on our financial condition and result of operations, and managing risk. However, all models have certain limitations. For example, our measurement methodologies rely on many assumptions, historical analyses and correlations. These assumptions may not capture or fully incorporate conditions leading to losses, particularly in times of market distress, and the historical correlations on which we rely may no longer be relevant. Additionally, as businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not accurately reflect the changing environment.  Further, even if the underlying assumptions and historical correlations used in our models are adequate, our models may be deficient due to errors in computer code, bad data, misuse of data, or the use of a model for a purpose outside the scope of the model's design. Although we employ strategies to manage and govern the risks associated with our use of models, they may not be effective or fully reliable. As a result, our models may not capture or fully express the risks we face, suggest that we have sufficient capitalization when we do not, lead us to misjudge the business and economic environment in which we operate and ultimately cause planning failures or the reporting of incorrect information to our regulators. Any such occurrence or the perception of such occurrence by our regulators, investors or clients could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial conditions.. Our capital stress testing processes rely on analytical and forecasting models that may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate, which could adversely affect the effectiveness of our strategic planning and our ability to pursue certain corporate goals.. In accordance with the Dodd-Frank Act and the Federal Reserve's regulations thereunder, banking organizations with $10 billion to $50 billion in assets are required to perform annual capital stress tests.  The results of our capital stress tests may require us to increase our regulatory capital, raise additional capital or take or decline to take certain other capital-related actions under certain circumstances.  Our stress testing processes also rely on our use of analytical and forecasting models. These models reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. Furthermore, even if our assumptions are accurate predictors of future performance, the models they are based on may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or implementation. Also, the assumptions we utilize for our stress tests may not be met with regulatory approval, which could result in our stress tests receiving a failing grade. In addition to adversely affecting our reputation, failing our stress tests would likely preclude or delay the possibility of our growth through acquisition, and would limit our ability to pay any cash dividends.. 33. Table of Contents. We could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws and regulations or the interpretations of such laws and regulations.. We are subject to the income tax laws of the United States, its constituent states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we have business operations. These tax laws are complex and may be subject to different interpretations. We must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and our valuation allowance. Changes to the tax laws, administrative rulings or court decisions could increase our provision for income taxes and reduce our net income.. U.S. or international tax laws and regulations may continue to change from time-to-time. In particular, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJ Act\"), which became effective as of January 2018, among other things, reduced the federal tax rate for corporation and changed or limited certain tax deductions.  While the new tax law is expected to result in overall lower tax expense for the Company beginning in 2018, we incurred an increase in our provision for income taxes due to a one-time revaluation of certain tax-related assets to reflect the lower tax rate as of the end of the fourth quarter of 2017.  While impossible to predict, future changes to applicable U.S. or international tax rules could subsequently increase our effective tax rate or could otherwise have a material impact on our income tax expense.. The price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline.. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control.  In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are:. actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition;. changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts;. failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates;. speculation in the press or investment community;. strategic actions by us or our competitors;. actions by institutional stockholders;. fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors;.  general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry;.  market perceptions about the innovation economy, including levels of funding or \"exit\" activities of companies in the industries we serve;. proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments;. anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; and. domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance.. The trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will further depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, and future sales of our equity or equity-related securities.  In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation, as well as the loss of key employees."
