[1] "Item 1A Risk Factors. There are inherent risks and uncertainties associated with our business that could adversely affect our operating performance and financial condition. Set forth below are descriptions of those risks and uncertainties that we believe to be material, but the risks and uncertainties described are not the only risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. Reference should be made to \"Forward-Looking Statements\" above, and \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" in Item 7 below.. The cyclical nature of the industries in which our customers operate causes demand for our products to be cyclical, creating uncertainty regarding future profitability. Various changes in general economic conditions affect the industries in which our customers operate. These changes include decreases in the rate of consumption or use of our customers' products due to economic downturns. Other factors causing fluctuation in our customers' positions are changes in market demand, capital spending, lower overall pricing due to domestic and international overcapacity, lower priced imports, currency fluctuations, and increases in use or decreases in prices of substitute materials. As a result of these factors, our profitability has been and may in the future be subject to significant fluctuation.. Domestic competition could force lower product pricing and may have an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. From time-to-time, intense competition and excess manufacturing capacity in the commodity stainless steel industry have resulted in reduced selling prices, excluding raw material surcharges, for many of our stainless steel products sold by the Metals Segment. In order to maintain market share, we would have to lower our prices to match the competition. These factors have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our revenues, operating results and financial condition and may continue to do so in the future.. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by an increased level of imported products. Our business is susceptible to the import of products from other countries, particularly steel products. Import levels of various products are affected by, among other things, overall world-wide demand, lower cost of production in other countries, the trade practices of foreign governments, government subsidies to foreign producers, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar and governmentally imposed trade restrictions in the United States. Although imports from certain countries have been curtailed by anti-dumping duties, imported products from. other countries could significantly reduce prices. Increased imports of certain products, whether illegal dumping or legal imports, could reduce demand for our products in the future and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. The Specialty Chemicals Segment uses significant quantities of a variety of specialty and commodity chemicals in its manufacturing processes, which are subject to price and availability fluctuations that may have an adverse impact on our financial performance. The raw materials we use are generally available from numerous independent suppliers. However, some of our raw material needs are met by a sole supplier or only a few suppliers. If any supplier that we rely on for raw materials ceases or limits production, we may incur significant additional costs, including capital costs, in order to find alternate, reliable raw material suppliers. We may also experience significant production delays while locating new supply sources, which could result in our failure to timely deliver products to our customers. Purchase prices and availability of these critical raw materials are subject to volatility. Some of the raw materials used by the Specialty Chemicals Segment are derived from petrochemical-based feedstock, such as crude oil and natural gas, which have been subject to historical periods of rapid and significant movements in price. These fluctuations in price could be aggravated by factors beyond our control such as political instability, and supply and demand factors, including Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (\"OPEC\") production quotas and increased global demand for petroleum-based products. At any given time, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of these critical raw materials on a timely basis, at prices and other terms acceptable, or at all. If suppliers increase the price of critical raw materials, we may not have alternative sources of supply. We attempt to pass changes in the prices of raw materials along to our customers. However, we cannot always do so, and any limitation on our ability to pass through any price increases could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Any significant variations in the cost and availability of our specialty and commodity materials may negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, specifically for the Specialty Chemicals Segment.. We rely on a small number of suppliers for our raw materials and any interruption in our supply chain could affect our operations. In order to foster stronger business relationships, the Metals Segment uses only a few raw material suppliers. During the year ended December 31, 2017, nine suppliers furnished approximately 80 percent of our total dollar purchases of raw materials, with. 6. one supplier providing 40 percent. However, these raw materials are available from a number of sources, and the Company anticipates no difficulties in fulfilling its raw materials requirements for the Metals Segment. Raw materials used by the Specialty Chemicals Segment are generally available from numerous independent suppliers and approximately 52 percent of total purchases were made from our top 15 suppliers during the year ended December 31, 2017. Although some raw material needs are met by a single supplier or only a few suppliers, the Company anticipates no difficulties in fulfilling its raw material requirements for the Specialty Chemicals Segment. While the Company believes that raw materials for both segments are readily available from numerous sources, the loss of one or more key suppliers in either segment, or any other material change in our current supply channels, could have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to meet the demand for its products, which could impact our operations, revenues and financial results.. A substantial portion of our overall sales is dependent upon a limited number of customers, and the loss of one or more of such customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and profitability. The products of the Specialty Chemicals Segment are sold to various industries nationwide.  The Specialty Chemicals Segment has one customer that accounted for approximately 23 percent, 25 percent and 31 percent of revenues for 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The concentration of sales to this customer declined as a result of this customer moving production of the products previously produced and sold by the Specialty Chemicals Segment in house. The loss of this customer would have a material adverse effect on the revenues of the Specialty Chemicals Segment of the Company.. The Metals Segment had one customer that accounted for approximately 14 percent of revenues for 2015. There were no customers representing more than ten percent of the Metals Segment's revenues in 2017 or 2016. Palmer and Specialty, which are a part of the Metals Segment, sell much of their products to the oil and gas industry. Any change in this industry, or any change in this industry's demand for their products, would have a material adverse effect on the profits of the Metals Segment and the Company.. Our operating results are sensitive to the availability and cost of energy and freight, which are important in the manufacture and transport of our products. Our operating costs increase when energy or freight costs rise. During periods of increasing energy and freight costs, we might not be able to fully recover our operating cost increases through price increases without reducing demand for our products. In addition, we are dependent on third party freight carriers to transport many of our products, all of which are dependent on fuel to transport our products. The prices for and availability of electricity, natural gas, oil, diesel fuel and other energy resources are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions often are affected by political and economic factors beyond our control. Disruptions in the supply of energy resources could temporarily impair the ability to manufacture products for customers and may result in the decline of freight carrier capacity in our geographic markets, or make freight carriers unavailable. Further, increases in energy or freight costs that cannot be passed on to customers, or changes in costs relative to energy and freight costs paid by competitors, has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our profitability.. Oil prices are extremely volatile. A substantial or extended decline in the price of oil could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Prices for oil can fluctuate widely. Our Palmer and Specialty (Houston, Texas) units' revenues are highly dependent on our customers adding oil well drilling and pumping locations. Should oil prices decline such that drilling becomes unprofitable for our customers, such customers will likely cap many of their current wells and cease or curtail expansion. This will decrease the demand for our tanks and pipe and tube and adversely affect the results of our operations.. Significant changes in nickel prices could have an impact on the sales of the Metals Segment. The Metals Segment uses nickel in a number of its products. Nickel prices are currently at a relatively low level, which reduces our manufacturing costs for certain products. When nickel prices increase, many of our customers increase their orders in an attempt to avoid future price increases, resulting in increased sales for the Metals Segment. Conversely, when nickel prices decrease, many of our customers wait to place orders in an attempt to take advantage of subsequent price decreases, resulting in reduced sales for the Metals Segment. On average, the Metals Segment turns its inventory of commodity pipe every six months, but the nickel surcharge on sales of commodity pipe is established on a monthly basis. The difference, if any, between the price of nickel on the date of purchase of the raw material and the price, as established by the surcharge, on the date of sale has the potential to create an inventory price change gain or loss. If the price of nickel steadily increases over time, as it did from 2005 to 2007, the Metals Segment is the beneficiary of the increase in nickel price in the form of metal price change gains. Conversely, if the price of nickel steadily decreases over time, as it did from 2011 to 2016, the Metals Segment suffers metal price change losses. 2017 was a highly volatile year, with nickel prices starting at a peak in January, and declining through the first nine months, with a steep trough during the third quarter (average down 25 percent from the first quarter), before rebounding to almost beginning of year levels by December. This volatile pattern did result in average nickel prices being up 48 percent for the full year of 2017 and up 38 percent for the fourth quarter 2017, when compared to the same periods of the prior year; however, substantial declines within the year generated cumulative inventory price change losses that exceeded inventory price change gains by $2,634,000 for the year. We will incur inventory price losses in the future if nickel prices decrease. Any material changes in the cost of nickel could impact our sales and result in fluctuations in the profits for the Metals Segment.. 7. The Company began hedging its nickel exposure effective in the beginning of 2016 to provide coverage against extreme downside product pricing exposure related to the content of nickel alloy contained in purchased stainless steel inventory. The sales price of stainless steel product (containing nickel alloy) is subject to a variable pricing component for alloys (nickel, chrome, molybdenum and iron) contained in the product. Each month, industry pricing indices are published which set the following month's price surcharges for those alloys. The Company typically holds approximately six to seven months of inventory, with fixed priced purchase orders (where the alloy pricing index is \"locked\", eliminating the Company's exposure) consisting of approximately 50 percent of held stainless steel inventories. As a result, the eventual sales prices for approximately 50 percent of held stainless steel inventories will vary until a customer order commitment is received, and the selling price is established. In the past, the Company fully absorbed the potential negative market volatility that resulted from sales prices declining during the inventory hold period. In 2017 and 2016, the cumulative negative impact during the inventory hold period totaled $2,634,000 and $5,751,000, respectively, due to a substantial and prolonged period of nickel commodity pricing declines.. The Company's nickel hedge program covers approximately three months of pricing exposure, via forward contracts, to sell nickel at fixed prices. Other alloys do not have hedge contracts available in the marketplace. The Company reviews the current nickel pricing level and if it believes there is significant downside exposure in future pricing, management will protect against these projected declines by purchasing contracts to \"Put\" nickel pounds to the trading party, with strike prices at 15 percent below the three-month forward price at the time of the contract. As a result, there is zero hedge coverage for the first 15 percent of nickel price decline, but dollar for dollar coverage for 100 percent of any decline below that level.. As of December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company had a hedge position equal to 1,351,000 and 639,000, respectively, of pounds of nickel, representing 53 and 34 percent, respectively, of the Company's total nickel content of stainless steel pounds in inventory. The Company does not utilize hedge accounting for these transactions but marks to market the value of the outstanding contracts with all adjustments being included in cost of sales in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The fair value of the nickel contracts at December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 was an asset of approximately $9,000 and $87,000, respectively. The Company's downside exposure is limited to the potential that the total of the fair value of the nickel contracts would be reduced to zero, if nickel pricing does not decline to the contracted strike prices. The program is designed to mitigate but not eliminate the Company's nickel pricing exposure.. We encounter significant competition in all areas of our businesses and may be unable to compete effectively, which could result in reduced profitability and loss of market share. We actively compete with companies producing the same or similar products and, in some instances, with companies producing different products designed for the same uses. We encounter competition from both domestic and foreign sources in price, delivery, service, performance, product innovation and product recognition and quality, depending on the product involved. For some of our products, our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be better able to withstand a change in conditions within the industries in which we operate, a change in the prices of raw materials or a change in the economy as a whole. Our competitors can be expected to continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced products and more efficient production capabilities, which could cause a decline in market acceptance of our products. Current and future consolidation among our competitors and customers also may cause a loss of market share as well as put downward pressure on pricing. Our competitors could cause a reduction in the prices for some of our products as a result of intensified price competition. Competitive pressures can also result in the loss of major customers. If we cannot compete successfully, our business, financial condition and profitability could be adversely affected.. Our lengthy sales cycle for the Specialty Chemicals Segment makes it difficult to predict quarterly revenue levels and operating results. Purchasing the products of the Specialty Chemicals Segment is a major commitment on the part of our customers. Before a potential customer determines to purchase products from the Specialty Chemicals Segment, the Company must produce test product material so that the potential customer is satisfied that we can manufacture a product to their specifications. The production of such test materials is a time-consuming process. Accordingly, the sales process for products in the Specialty Chemicals Segment is a lengthy process that requires a considerable investment of time and resources on our part. As a result, the timing of our revenues is difficult to predict, and the delay of an order could cause our quarterly revenues to fall below our expectations and those of the public market analysts and investors.. Our operations expose us to the risk of environmental, health and safety liabilities and obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things:. • the generation, use, storage, treatment, transportation, disposal and management of hazardous substances and wastes;. • emissions or discharges of pollutants or other substances into the environment;. • investigation and remediation of, and damages resulting from, releases of hazardous substances; and. • the health and safety of our employees.. 8. Under certain environmental laws, we can be held strictly liable for hazardous substance contamination of any real property we have ever owned, operated or used as a disposal site. We are also required to maintain various environmental permits and licenses, many of which require periodic modification and renewal. Our operations entail the risk of violations of those laws and regulations, and we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with all of these requirements. In addition, these requirements and their enforcement may become more stringent in the future.. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, additional capital expenditures in addition to ordinary costs to comply with applicable environmental laws, such as those governing air emissions and wastewater discharges. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and permit requirements could result in civil and/or criminal fines or penalties, enforcement actions, and regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures such as the installation of pollution control equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We are currently, and may in the future be, required to investigate, remediate or otherwise address contamination at our current or former facilities. Many of our current and former facilities have a history of industrial usage for which additional investigation, remediation or other obligations could arise in the future and that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, we are currently, and could in the future be, responsible for costs to address contamination identified at any real property we used as a disposal site.. Although we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with any of the requirements described above, the costs could be material. Non-compliance could subject us to material liabilities, such as government fines, third-party lawsuits or the suspension of non-compliant operations. We also may be required to make significant site or operational modifications at substantial cost. Future developments also could restrict or eliminate the use of or require us to make modifications to our products, which could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. At any given time, we are involved in claims, litigation, administrative proceedings and investigations of various types involving potential environmental liabilities, including cleanup costs associated with hazardous waste disposal sites at our facilities. We cannot assure you that the resolution of these environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. The ultimate costs and timing of environmental liabilities are difficult to predict. Liability under environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis. We could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, civil or criminal fines and sanctions and third-party claims, as a result of past or future violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws.. We could be subject to third party claims for property damage, personal injury, nuisance or otherwise as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental, health or safety laws in connection with releases of hazardous or other materials at any current or former facility. We could also be subject to environmental indemnification claims in connection with assets and businesses that we have acquired or divested.. There can be no assurance that any future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with environmental laws, as well as costs to address contamination or environmental claims, will not exceed any current estimates or adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any unanticipated liabilities or obligations arising, for example, out of discovery of previously unknown conditions or changes in laws or regulations, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We are dependent upon the continued operation of our production facilities, which are subject to a number of hazards. In both of our business segments, but especially in the Specialty Chemicals Segment, our production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacture, handling, storage and transportation of chemical materials and products, including leaks and ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, unscheduled downtime and environmental hazards which could result in liability for workplace injuries and fatalities. In addition, some of our production capabilities are highly specialized, which limits our ability to shift production to another facility in the event of an incident at a particular facility. If a production facility, or a critical portion of a production facility, were temporarily shut down, we likely would incur higher costs for alternate sources of supply for our products. We cannot assure you that we will not experience these types of incidents in the future or that these incidents will not result in production delays, failure to timely fulfill customer orders or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Certain of our employees in the Metals Segment are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and the failure to renew these agreements could result in labor disruptions and increased labor costs. As of December 31, 2017, we had 223 employees represented by unions at our Bristol, Tennessee, Munhall, Pennsylvania and Mineral Ridge, Ohio facilities, which is 42 percent of the aggregate number of Company employees. These employees are represented by three local unions affiliated with the United Steelworkers (the \"Steelworkers Union\"). The collective bargaining contracts for the Steelworkers Unions will expire in July 2019, June 2020 and January 2023. Although we believe that our present labor relations are satisfactory, our failure to renew these agreements on. 9. reasonable terms as the current agreements expire could result in labor disruptions and increased labor costs, which could adversely affect our financial performance.. Our current capital structure includes indebtedness, which is secured by all or substantially all of our assets and which contains restrictive covenants that may prevent us from obtaining adequate working capital, making acquisitions or capital improvements.. Our existing credit facility contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things, borrow money or guarantee the debts of others, use assets as security in other transactions, make investments or other restricted payments or distributions, change our business or enter into new lines of business, and sell or acquire assets or merge with or into other companies. In addition, our credit facility requires us to meet a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio which could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs and could otherwise restrict our financing activities. Our ability to comply with the covenants and other terms of our credit facility will depend on our future operating performance. If we fail to comply with such covenants and terms, we will be in default and the maturity of any then outstanding related debt could be accelerated and become immediately due and payable. In addition, in the event of such a default, our lender may refuse to advance additional funds, demand immediate repayment of our outstanding indebtedness, and elect to foreclose on our assets that secure the credit facility.. There were no events of default under our credit facility at December 31, 2017. Although we believe we will remain in compliance with these covenants in the foreseeable future and that our relationship with our lender is strong, there is no assurance our lender would consent to an amendment or waiver in the event of noncompliance; or that such consent would not be conditioned upon the receipt of a cash payment, revised principal payout terms, increased interest rates or restrictions in the expansion of the credit facility for the foreseeable future, or that our lender would not exercise rights that would be available to them, including, among other things, demanding payment of outstanding borrowings. In addition, our ability to obtain additional capital or alternative borrowing arrangements at reasonable rates may be adversely affected. All or any of these adverse events would further limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, downturns in our business.. We may need new or additional financing in the future to expand our business or refinance existing indebtedness, and our inability to obtain capital on satisfactory terms or at all may have an adverse impact on our operations and our financial results. If we are unable to access capital on satisfactory terms and conditions, we may not be able to expand our business or meet our payment requirements under our existing credit facility. Our ability to obtain new or additional financing will depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may not be able to obtain new or additional financing because we may have substantial debt, our current receivable and inventory balances do not support additional debt availability or because we may not have sufficient cash flows to service or repay our existing or future debt. In addition, depending on market conditions and our financial performance, equity financing may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all. If we are unable to access capital on satisfactory terms and conditions, this could have an adverse impact on our operations and our financial results.. Our existing property and liability insurance coverages contain exclusions and limitations on coverage. We maintain various forms of insurance, including insurance covering claims related to our properties and risks associated with our operations. From time-to-time, in connection with renewals of insurance, we have experienced additional exclusions and limitations on coverage, larger self-insured retentions and deductibles and higher premiums, primarily from the operations of the Specialty Chemicals Segment. As a result, our existing coverage may not be sufficient to cover any losses we may incur and in the future our insurance coverage may not cover claims to the extent that it has in the past and the costs that we incur to procure insurance may increase significantly, either of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows.. We may not be able to make the operational and product changes necessary to continue to be an effective competitor. We must continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and manufacture new products with improved capabilities in order to continue to be an effective competitor in our business markets. In addition, we must anticipate and respond to changes in industry standards that affect our products and the needs of our customers. We also must continue to make improvements in our productivity in order to maintain our competitive position. When we invest in new technologies, processes or production capabilities, we face risks related to construction delays, cost over-runs and unanticipated technical difficulties.. The success of any new or enhanced products will depend on a number of factors, such as technological innovations, increased manufacturing and material costs, customer acceptance and the performance and quality of the new or enhanced products. As we introduce new products or refine existing products, we cannot predict the level of market acceptance or the amount of market share these new or enhanced products may achieve. Moreover, we may experience delays in the introduction of new or enhanced products. Any manufacturing delays or problems with new or enhanced product launches will adversely affect our operating results. In addition, the introduction of new products could result in a decrease in revenues from existing products. Also, we may need more capital for product development and enhancement than is available to us, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We sell our products in industries that are affected by technological changes, new product introductions and changing industry standards. If we do not respond by developing new products or enhancing existing products. 10. on a timely basis, our products will become obsolete over time and our revenues, cash flows, profitability and competitive position will suffer.. In addition, if we fail to accurately predict future customer needs and preferences, we may invest heavily in the development of new or enhanced products that do not result in significant sales and revenue. Even if we successfully innovate in the development of new and enhanced products, we may incur substantial costs in doing so, and our profitability may suffer. Our products must be kept current to meet the needs of our customers. To remain competitive, we must develop new and innovative products on an on-going basis. If we fail to make innovations, or the market does not accept our new or enhanced products, our sales and results could suffer.. Our inability to anticipate and respond to changes in industry standards and the needs of our customers, or to utilize changing technologies in responding to those changes, could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations.. Our strategy of using acquisitions and dispositions to position our businesses may not always be successful, which may have a material adverse impact on our financial results and profitability. We have historically utilized acquisitions and dispositions in an effort to strategically position our businesses and improve our ability to compete. We plan to continue to do this by seeking specialty niches, acquiring businesses complementary to existing strengths and continually evaluating the performance and strategic fit of our existing business units. We consider acquisitions, joint ventures and other business combination opportunities as well as possible business unit dispositions. From time-to-time, management holds discussions with management of other companies to explore such opportunities. As a result, the relative makeup of the businesses comprising our Company is subject to change. Acquisitions, joint ventures and other business combinations involve various inherent risks, such as: assessing accurately the value, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition or other transaction candidates; the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; significant transaction costs that were not identified during due diligence; our ability to achieve identified financial and operating synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition or other transaction; and unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting an acquisition or other transaction. If acquisition opportunities are not available or if one or more acquisitions are not successfully integrated into our operations, this could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and profitability.. The loss of key members of our management team, or difficulty attracting and retaining experienced technical personnel, could reduce our competitiveness and have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The successful implementation of our strategies and handling of other issues integral to our future success will depend, in part, on our experienced management team. The loss of key members of our management team could have an adverse effect on our business. Although we have entered into employment agreements with key members of our management team including Craig C. Bram, President and Chief Executive Officer, Dennis M. Loughran, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Sally M. Cunningham, Vice President of Corporate Administration,  J. Kyle Pennington, President of Metals Segment, James G. Gibson, General Manager and President of Specialty Chemicals Segment, Steven J. Baroff, President and General Manager of Specialty, K. Dianne Beck, Vice President of Specialty,  Christopher D. Sitka, Vice President of Specialty and Kevin Van Zandt, Vice President of Bristol Metals-Munhall, employees may resign from the Company at any time and seek employment elsewhere, subject to certain non-competition restrictions. Additionally, if we cannot retain our technical personnel or attract additional experienced technical personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed.. Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities could result in delays or eliminate new wells from being started, thus reducing the demand for our fiberglass and steel storage tanks, pressure vessels and heavy walled pipe and tube. Hydraulic fracturing (\"fracking\") is currently an essential and common practice to extract oil from dense subsurface rock formations and this lower cost extraction method is a significant driving force behind the surge of oil exploration and drilling in several locations in the United States. However, the Environmental Protection Agency, U.S. Congress and state legislatures have considered adopting legislation to provide additional regulations and disclosures surrounding this process. In the event that new legal restrictions surrounding the fracking process are adopted in the areas in which our customers operate, we may see a dramatic decrease in Palmer's and Specialty - Texas' profitability which could have an adverse impact on our financial results.. Our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate to cover actual losses. An allowance for doubtful accounts in maintained for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. This allowance may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and future provisions for losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. The allowance for doubtful accounts is based on an evaluation of the outstanding receivables and existing economic conditions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other outside forces and conditions, all of which are beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Although management believes that the allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate to cover current estimated losses, management cannot make assurances that we will not further increase the allowance for doubtful accounts. A significant increase in the allowance for doubtful accounts could adversely affect our earnings.. 11. We depend on third parties to distribute certain of our products and because we have no control over such third parties we are subject to adverse changes in such parties' operations or interruptions of service, each of which may have an adverse effect on our operations. We use third parties over which we have only limited control to distribute certain of our products. Our dependency on these third party distributors has increased as our business has grown. Because we rely on these third parties to provide distribution services, any change in our ability to access these third party distribution services could have an adverse impact on our revenues and put us at a competitive disadvantage with our competitors.. Freight costs for products produced in our Palmer facility restrict our sales area for this facility. The freight and other distribution costs for products sold from our Palmer facility are extremely high. As a result, the market area for these products is restricted, which limits the geographic market for Palmer's tanks and the ability to significantly increase revenues derived from sales of products from the Palmer facility.. New regulations related to \"conflict minerals\" may force us to incur additional expenses, may make our supply chain more complex and may result in damage to our reputation with customers. On August 22, 2012, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\"), the SEC adopted new requirements for companies that use certain minerals and metals, known as conflict minerals, in their products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. These regulations require companies to conduct annual due diligence and disclose whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. Tungsten and tantalum are designated as conflict minerals under the Dodd-Frank Act. These metals are used to varying degrees in our welding materials and are also present in specialty alloy products. These new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of minerals used in our products. In addition, we could incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals and metals used in our products. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins for these minerals and metals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. In such event, we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who could require that all of the components of our products are conflict mineral-free.. Our inability to sufficiently or completely protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to compete effectively in both of our business segments will depend on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of the intellectual property used in our businesses. These intellectual property rights consist largely of trade-secrets and know-how. We rely on a combination of trade secrets and non-disclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our rights in our intellectual property. We also depend upon confidentiality agreements with our officers, directors, employees, consultants and subcontractors, as well as collaborative partners, to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property. These measures may not afford us sufficient or complete protection, and others may independently develop intellectual property similar to ours, otherwise avoid our confidentiality agreements or produce technology that would adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Our internal controls over financial reporting could fail to prevent or detect misstatements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls or to timely effect any necessary improvement in our internal controls and disclosure controls could, among other things, result in losses from fraud or error, harm our reputation or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Cyber security risks and cyber incidents could adversely affect our business and disrupt operations. Cyber incidents can result from deliberate attacks or unintentional events. These incidents can include, but are not limited to, gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. The result of these incidents could include, but are not limited to, disrupted operations, misstated financial data, liability for stolen assets or information, increased cyber security protection costs, litigation and reputational damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence.. Loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability, or changes in supplier distribution programs could adversely affect our sales and earnings. Our business depends on maintaining an immediately available supply of various products to meet customer demand. Many of our relationships with key product suppliers are longstanding, but are terminable by either party. The loss of key supplier authorizations, or a substantial decrease in the availability of their products, could put us at a competitive disadvantage and have a material adverse effect on our business. Supply interruptions could arise from raw material shortages, inadequate manufacturing capacity or utilization to meet demand, financial problems, labor disputes or weather conditions affecting suppliers' production, transportation disruptions or other reasons beyond our control.. 12. In addition, as a master distributor, we face the risk of key product suppliers changing their relationships with distributors generally, or Specialty in particular, in a manner that adversely impacts us. For example, key suppliers could change the following: the prices we must pay for their products relative to other distributors or relative to competing products; the geographic or product line breadth of distributor authorizations; supplier purchasing incentive or other support programs; or product purchase or stock expectations.. The purchasing incentives we earn from product suppliers can be impacted if we reduce our purchases in response to declining customer demand. Certain of our product and raw material suppliers have historically offered to their customers and distributors, including us, incentives for purchasing their products.  In addition to market or customer account-specific incentives, certain suppliers pay incentives to the customer or distributor for attaining specific purchase volumes during the program period. In some cases, in order to earn incentives, we must achieve year-over-year growth in purchases with the supplier. When the demand for our products declines, we may be less willing to add inventory to take advantage of certain incentive programs, thereby potentially adversely impacting our profitability.. The ongoing effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"The Act\") and the refinement of provisional estimates could make our results difficult to predict. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate in the future as a result of The Act, which was enacted on December 22, 2017. The Act introduced significant changes to U.S. income tax law that will have a meaningful impact on our provision for income taxes. Accounting for the income tax effects of the Tax Act requires significant judgments and estimates in the interpretation and calculations of the provisions of the The Act.. Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the The Act, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017. The U.S. Treasury Department, the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\"), and other standard-setting bodies may issue guidance on how the provisions of the The Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. As we collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret the The Act and any additional guidance issued by the IRS or other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts that could materially affect our financial position and results of operations as well as our effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made."
