[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, including our financial statements and related notes.. Risks Related to Our Business. We are largely dependent on the commercial success of  TRULANCE in the U.S. for the foreseeable future. We cannot guarantee when, or if, we will attain profitability or positive cash flows.. We began selling TRULANCE in the U.S. in the first quarter of 2017 for CIC and in the first quarter of 2018 for IBS-C. The commercial success of TRULANCE depends on a number of factors, including:. • the effectiveness of TRULANCE as a treatment for adult patients with CIC or IBS-C;. • the size of the treatable patient population;. • the effectiveness of the sales, managed markets and marketing efforts by us;. • the adoption of TRULANCE by physicians, which depends on whether physicians view it as a safe and effective treatment for adult patients with CIC or IBS-C;. • our success in educating and activating adult CIC and IBS-C patients to enable them to more effectively communicate their symptoms and treatment history to their physicians;. • our ability to both secure and maintain adequate reimbursement for, and optimize patient access to, TRULANCE by providing third party payers with a strong value proposition based on the existing burden of illness associated with CIC and IBS-C and the benefits of TRULANCE;. • the effectiveness of our partners' distribution networks;. • the occurrence of any side effects, adverse reactions or misuse, or any unfavorable publicity in these areas, associated with TRULANCE; and. • the development or commercialization of competing products or therapies for the treatment of CIC and IBS-C, or their associated symptoms.. Our revenues from the commercialization of TRULANCE are subject to these factors, and therefore may be unpredictable from quarter-to-quarter. Ultimately, we may never generate sufficient revenues from TRULANCE to reach or maintain profitability for our company or to sustain our anticipated levels of operations.. A substantial portion of our total revenues is derived from sales to a limited number of customers.. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales to a limited number of customers. In 2017, our three major customers, McKesson Corporation, Cardinal Health, AmerisourceBergen, accounted for 37%, 31%, and 29%, respectively, or an aggregate of 97%, of our gross revenue.. A reduction in, or loss of business with, any one of these customers, or any failure of a customer to pay us on a timely basis, would adversely affect our business.. TRULANCE may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could limit its commercial potential.. The most commonly reported adverse reaction in the Phase III placebo-controlled trials for TRULANCE in CIC and IBS-C was diarrhea. Severe diarrhea was reported in 2% or less of the TRULANCE-treated patients, and its incidence was similar between the IBS-C and CIC populations in these trials. If we or others identify previously unknown side effects, if known side effects are more frequent or severe than in the past, if we or others detect unexpected safety signals for TRULANCE or any products perceived to be similar to TRULANCE, or if any of the foregoing are perceived to have occurred, then in any of these circumstances:. • sales of TRULANCE may be impaired;. • regulatory approvals for TRULANCE may be denied, restricted or withdrawn;. 11. Table of Contents. • we may decide to, or be required to, send product warning letters or field alerts to physicians, pharmacists and hospitals;. • reformulation of the product, additional nonclinical or clinical studies, changes in labeling or changes to or reapprovals of manufacturing facilities may be required;. • we may be precluded from pursuing additional development opportunities to enhance the clinical profile of TRULANCE within its indicated populations, as well as be precluded from studying TRULANCE in additional indications, populations and formulations;. • our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and. • government investigations or lawsuits, including class action suits, may be brought against us.. Any of the above occurrences would harm or prevent sales of TRULANCE, increase our expenses and impair our ability to successfully commercialize TRULANCE.. Furthermore, as we explore development opportunities to enhance the clinical profile of TRULANCE through additional clinical trials, the number of patients treated with TRULANCE within and outside of its current indications or patient populations may expand, which could result in the identification of previously unknown side effects, increased frequency or severity of known side effects, or detection of unexpected safety signals. As a result, regulatory authorities, healthcare practitioners, third party payers or patients may perceive or conclude that the use of TRULANCE is associated with serious adverse effects, undermining our commercialization efforts.. In addition, the FDA-approved label for TRULANCE contains a boxed warning about its use in pediatric patients. TRULANCE is contraindicated in pediatric patients less than 6 years of age based on nonclinical data from studies in neonatal mice approximately equivalent to human pediatric patients less than 2 years of age. There is also a warning advising physicians to avoid the use of TRULANCE in pediatric patients 6 to less than 18 years of age. This warning is based on data in young juvenile mice and the lack of clinical safety and efficacy data in pediatric patients of any age group.. We may need to raise additional capital to fund our operations, and our failure to obtain funding when needed may force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our development programs or commercialization efforts or even discontinue or curtail our operations.. During the year ended December 31, 2017, our operating activities used net cash of approximately $212.9 million. During the year ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, our operating activities used net cash of approximately $129.8 million and $101.0 million, respectively. In addition, as of December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 our cash and cash equivalents was $137.0 million and $82.4 million, respectively, consisting of checking accounts and short-term money market mutual funds.. Purchasing commercial quantities of pharmaceutical products, developing product candidates, conducting clinical trials, and commercializing products are expensive and uncertain. Circumstances, our strategic imperatives, or opportunities to create or acquire new programs, as well as maturities, redemptions or repurchases of our outstanding Notes, could require us to, or we may choose to, seek to raise additional funds.. The amount and timing of our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to:. • the level of underlying demand for TRULANCE by prescribers and patients in the U.S.;. • the level of acceptance for TRULANCE among physicians, patients and the medical community;. • the costs associated with commercializing TRULANCE in the U.S.;. • the costs of maintaining and/or expanding sales, marketing and distribution capabilities for TRULANCE;. • the rate of progress, the cost of our clinical trials and the other costs associated with our product development programs;. • the costs and timing of in-licensing additional products or product candidates or acquiring other complementary companies;. • the status, terms and timing of any collaboration, licensing, co-commercialization or other arrangements;. • the timing of any regulatory approvals of our product candidates;. • whether the holders of our outstanding Notes hold the notes to maturity without conversion into our common stock and whether we are required to repurchase our Notes prior to maturity upon a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the Notes; and. 12. Table of Contents. • whether we seek to redeem or repurchase all or part of our outstanding Notes through cash purchases and/or exchanges, in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, by tender offer or otherwise.. We may need to raise additional capital to fund our future operations and we cannot be certain that funding will be available on acceptable terms on a timely basis, or at all. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience significant dilution. Any debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that may impact our ability to conduct our business. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required or on acceptable terms, we may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development and/or commercialization of our product candidates or our commercialization efforts. We also may be required to:. • seek collaborators for our product candidates at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable and on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available; and/or. • relinquish license or otherwise dispose of rights to technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves on unfavorable terms.. Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going. concern, which may hinder our ability to obtain future financing.. Our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2017 have been prepared under the assumption that we will. continue as a going concern for the next twelve months. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued a report. that includes an explanatory paragraph referring to our recurring and continuing losses from operations, covenants associated with our Term Loan, and expressing substantial doubt in our ability to continue as a going concern without additional capital becoming available. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to obtain additional equity or debt financing, attain further operating efficiencies, reduce expenditures, and to generate significant revenue. Our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2017 did not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty.. We have incurred significant losses since inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future.. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $807 million. We will incur significant and increasing operating losses for the next several years if we expand our research and development, continue our clinical trials of TRULANCE for the treatment of additional GI disorders, acquire or license technologies, advance other product candidates into clinical development, including dolcanatide, complete clinical trials, seek regulatory approval, commercialize TRULANCE and, if we receive FDA approval, commercialize our other product candidates. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with product development efforts, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. If we are unable to achieve and then maintain profitability, the market value of our common stock will likely experience significant decline.. Clinical trials involve a lengthy and expensive process with an uncertain outcome, and results of earlier studies and trials may not be predictive of future trial results.. Our product candidates may not prove to be safe and efficacious in clinical trials and may not meet all the applicable regulatory requirements needed to receive regulatory approval. In order to receive regulatory approval for the commercialization of our product candidates, we must conduct, at our own expense, extensive preclinical testing and clinical trials to demonstrate safety and efficacy of these product candidates for the intended indication of use. Clinical testing is expensive, can take many years to complete, if at all, and its outcome is uncertain. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process.. The results of preclinical studies and early clinical trials of new drugs do not necessarily predict the results of later-stage clinical trials. The design of our clinical trials is based on many assumptions about the expected effects of our product candidates, and if those assumptions are incorrect may not produce statistically significant results. Preliminary results may not be confirmed on full analysis of the detailed results of an early clinical trial. Product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show safety and efficacy sufficient to support intended use claims despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. The data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates may not be sufficient to support the filing of an NDA or to obtain regulatory approval in the United States or elsewhere. Because of the uncertainties associated with drug development and regulatory approval, we cannot determine if or when we will have an approved product for commercialization or achieve sales or profits.. 13. Table of Contents. Delays in clinical testing could result in increased costs to us and slow down our product development.. We may experience delays in clinical testing of our product candidates. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time, will need to be redesigned or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial, in securing clinical trial agreements with prospective sites with acceptable terms, in obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site, in recruiting patients to participate in a clinical trial or in obtaining sufficient supplies of clinical trial materials. Many factors affect patient enrollment, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial, competing clinical trials and new drugs approved for the conditions we are investigating. Clinical investigators will need to decide whether to offer their patients enrollment in clinical trials of our product candidates versus treating these patients with commercially available drugs that have established safety and efficacy profiles. Any delays in completing our clinical trials will increase our costs and slow down our product development and timeliness and approval process.. We may be required to suspend or discontinue clinical trials due to unexpected side effects or other safety risks that could preclude approval of our product candidates.. Our clinical trials may be suspended at any time for a number of reasons. For example, we may voluntarily suspend or terminate our clinical trials if at any time we believe that they present an unacceptable risk to the clinical trial patients. In addition, the FDA or other regulatory agencies may order the temporary or permanent discontinuation of our clinical trials at any time if they believe that the clinical trials are not being conducted in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements or that they present an unacceptable safety risk to the clinical trial patients.. Administering any product candidate to humans may produce undesirable side effects. These side effects could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of our product candidates and could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities denying further development or approval of our product candidates for any or all targeted indications. Ultimately, some or all of our product candidates may prove to be unsafe for human use. Moreover, we could be subject to significant liability if any volunteer or patient suffers, or appears to suffer, adverse health effects as a result of participating in our clinical trials. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of TRULANCE and could substantially increase commercialization costs.. If we fail to comply with healthcare regulations, we could face substantial enforcement actions, including civil and criminal penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. As a developer of pharmaceuticals, even though we do not intend to make referrals of healthcare services or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors, certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse, false claims and patients' privacy rights are and will be applicable to our business. We could be subject to healthcare fraud and abuse laws and patient privacy laws of both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business.. The laws include:. • the federal healthcare program anti-kickback law, which prohibits, among other things, persons from soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual, for an item or service or the purchasing or ordering of a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs;. • federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, and which may apply to entities like us which provide coding and billing information to customers;. • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, which prohibits executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters and which also imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information;. • the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, which among other things, strictly regulates drug manufacturing and product marketing, prohibits manufacturers from marketing drug products for off-label use and regulates the distribution of drug samples; and. • state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the. 14. Table of Contents. privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by federal laws, thus complicating compliance efforts.. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Although compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, the risks cannot be entirely eliminated. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert management's attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security and fraud laws may prove costly.. If TRULANCE is unable to compete effectively with marketed drugs targeting similar indications as TRULANCE, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated.. We face competition generally from established pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as from academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions.  Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Small or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large, established companies. Our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize GI drugs that are safer, more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than TRULANCE.. TRULANCE competes with at least two currently approved prescription therapies for the treatment of CIC and IBS-C, namely, Amitiza and Linzess. In addition, over-the-counter products are also used to treat certain symptoms of CIC and IBS-C. We believe other companies are developing products that will compete with TRULANCE should they be approved by the FDA. To our knowledge, other potential competitors are in earlier stages of development. If potential competitors are successful in completing drug development for their product candidates and obtain approval from the FDA, they could limit the demand for TRULANCE. We expect that our ability to compete effectively will depend upon our ability to:. • maintain a proprietary position for our products and manufacturing processes and other related product technology;. • attract and retain key personnel;. • ensure competitive patient access to our products in the U.S. based on any required discounts and rebates to payors;. • develop relationships with physicians prescribing these products; and. • build and maintain an adequate sales and marketing infrastructure for TRULANCE.. Because we will be competing against significantly larger companies with established track records, we will have to demonstrate that, based on clinical data, side-effect profiles and other factors, our products are competitive with other products. If we are unable to compete effectively in the GI drug market and differentiate our products from other marketed GI drugs, we may never generate meaningful revenue.. If we fail to attract and keep senior management and key scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop our product candidates, conduct our clinical trials and commercialize our products and product candidates.. Our success depends in part on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, clinical and scientific personnel. We are highly dependent upon our senior management and scientific staff. The loss of one or more of our senior management could delay or prevent the successful completion of any planned or ongoing clinical trials, any ongoing regulatory activities with FDA or the commercialization of our products and product candidates.. The competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals field is intense. We will need to hire additional personnel as we expand our commercial and supply chain activities. We may not be able to attract and retain quality personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other companies.. We may need to increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth.. We are a small company with 313 employees as of March 1, 2018. To continue our clinical/post-marketing trials and to commercialize our products and product candidates, we may need to expand our employee base for managerial, operational,. 15. Table of Contents. financial and other resources. Future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees. Over the next 12 months, we may need to add additional employees to assist us with our commercial programs. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our products and product candidates and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. To that end, we must be able to:. • manage development efforts effectively;. • manage our commercialization activities effectively;. • integrate additional management, administrative, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel;. • maintain sufficient administrative, accounting and management information systems and controls; and. • hire and train additional qualified personnel.. We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any of them could harm our financial results and impact our ability to achieve commercial and development milestones.. We are in the early stages of operating our commercial organization. If we are unable to maintain a direct sales force in the U.S. to promote our products, the commercial opportunity for our products may be diminished.. We are in the early stages of operating our commercial organization. We will incur significant additional expenses and commit significant additional management resources to maintain our own sales force. We may not be able to maintain such capabilities despite these additional expenditures. We will also have to compete with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to recruit, hire and train sales and marketing personnel. If we elect to rely on third parties to sell our products and product candidates in the United States, we may receive less revenue than if we sold our products directly. In addition, although we would intend to use due diligence in monitoring their activities, we may have little or no control over the sales efforts of those third parties. In the event we are unable to maintain our own sales force or collaborate with a third party to sell our products and product candidates, we may not be able to commercialize our products and product candidates which would negatively impact our ability to generate revenue.. We may need to rely on third parties to market and commercialize TRULANCE and our product candidates in international markets.. Currently, we do not have any commercial infrastructure in international markets. In the future, if appropriate regulatory approvals are obtained, we may commercialize TRULANCE and our product candidates in international markets. On February 27, 2018, we entered into a definitive licensing, development and commercialization agreement with Cipher Pharmaceuticals for the Canadian market. Significant commercialization of TRULANCE in Canada is several years away, if at all. If Cipher Pharmaceuticals is not able to effectively register and commercialize TRULANCE in Canada, we may not be able to generate revenue from the license agreement as a result of sales of TRULANCE in Canada.. We have not decided how to commercialize TRULANCE and our product candidates in other international markets. We may decide to build our own sales force or sell our products through third parties. If we decide to sell TRULANCE and our product candidates in international markets through a third party, we may not be able to enter into any marketing arrangements on favorable terms or at all. In addition, these arrangements could result in lower levels of income to us than if we marketed TRULANCE and our product candidates entirely on our own. If we are unable to enter into a marketing arrangement for TRULANCE and our product candidates in international markets, we may not be able to develop an effective international sales force to successfully commercialize those products in international markets. If we fail to enter into marketing arrangements for our products and are unable to develop an effective international sales force, our ability to generate revenue would be limited.. If the manufacturers upon whom we rely fail to produce TRULANCE and our other product candidates, including dolcanatide, in the volumes that we require on a timely basis, or fail to comply with stringent regulations applicable to pharmaceutical drug manufacturers, we may face delays in the development and commercialization of our products and product candidates.. We do not currently possess internal manufacturing capacity. We currently utilize the services of contract manufacturers to manufacture our clinical supplies and commercial products. With respect to the manufacturing of TRULANCE, we have executed supply agreements with contract manufacturers sufficient to meet our foreseeable clinical trial and commercial requirements. If any of our suppliers were to limit or terminate production or otherwise fail to meet the quality or delivery requirements needed to satisfy the supply, the process of locating and qualifying alternate sources could require up to several months, during which time our production could be delayed. Pursuant to the license agreement with Cipher Pharmaceuticals,. 16. Table of Contents. we have agreed to supply Cipher Pharmaceuticals with TRULANCE for development and commercialization in Canada.  Any curtailment in the availability of TRULANCE would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and adversely affect our relationship with Cipher Pharmaceuticals. In addition, because regulatory authorities must generally approve raw material sources for pharmaceutical products, changes in raw material suppliers may result in production delays or higher raw material costs.. Since the commercial manufacturing process for TRULANCE is single sourced for Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient, or API, and Drug Product, we are currently at risk until we establish secondary suppliers. We continue to pursue additional API and drug product supply agreements with other contract manufacturers. We may be required to agree to minimum volume requirements, exclusivity arrangements or other restrictions with the contract manufacturers. We may not be able to enter into long-term agreements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we change or add manufacturers, the FDA and comparable foreign regulators may require approval of the changes. Approval of these changes could require new testing by the manufacturer and compliance inspections to ensure the manufacturer is conforming to all applicable laws and regulations, including good manufacturing practices, or GMP. In addition, the new manufacturers would have to be educated in or independently develop the processes necessary for the production of our products and product candidates. Peptide manufacturing is a highly specialized manufacturing process. While we believe we will have long term arrangements with a sufficient number of contract manufacturers, if we lose a manufacturer, it would take us a substantial amount of time to identify and develop a relationship, and seek regulatory approval, where necessary, for an alternative manufacturer.. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products may encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product and quality assurance testing, shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with federal, state and foreign regulations. In addition, any delay or interruption in the supply of clinical trial supplies could delay the completion of our clinical trials, increase the costs associated with conducting our clinical trials and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new clinical trials at significant additional expense or to terminate a clinical trial.. We are responsible for ensuring that each of our contract manufacturers comply with the GMP requirements of the FDA and other regulatory authorities from which we seek to obtain product approval. These requirements include, among other things, quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. The approval process for NDAs includes a review of the manufacturer's compliance with GMP requirements. We are responsible for regularly assessing a contract manufacturer's compliance with GMP requirements through record reviews and periodic audits and for ensuring that the contract manufacturer takes responsibility and corrective action for any identified deviations. Manufacturers of TRULANCE and other product candidates, including dolcanatide, may be unable to comply with these GMP requirements and with other FDA and foreign regulatory requirements, if any. While we will oversee compliance by our contract manufacturers, ultimately we will not have control over our manufacturers' compliance with these regulations and standards. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. If the safety of TRULANCE or other product candidates is compromised due to a manufacturers' failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize TRULANCE or other product candidates, and we may be held liable for any injuries sustained as a result. Any of these factors could cause a delay of clinical trials, regulatory submissions, approvals or commercialization of TRULANCE or other product candidates, entail higher costs or result in us being unable to effectively commercialize TRULANCE or other product candidates. Furthermore, if our manufacturers fail to deliver the required commercial quantities on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, we may be unable to meet demand for any approved products and would lose potential revenues.. Materials necessary to manufacture TRULANCE and our product candidates may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which could impair commercialization of TRULANCE and may delay the development of our product candidates.. We rely on third-party manufacturers of TRULANCE and our product candidates to purchase from third-party suppliers the materials necessary to produce the bulk APIs and product candidates for our clinical trials, and we rely on such manufacturers to purchase such materials to produce the APIs and finished products for any commercial distribution of TRULANCE. Suppliers may not sell these materials to our manufacturers at the time they need them in order to meet our required delivery schedule or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We do not have any control over the process or timing of the acquisition of these materials by our manufacturers. Moreover, we currently do not have any agreements for the production of these materials. If we, or our manufacturers, are unable to purchase these materials, the commercialization of TRULANCE would be. 17. Table of Contents. impaired and there could be a shortage in supply of such product, which would harm our ability to generate revenues from such product and achieve or sustain profitability and adversely impact our relationship with Cipher Pharmaceuticals.. TRULANCE may not gain acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community, thereby limiting our potential to generate revenues.. The degree of market acceptance of any approved product by physicians, healthcare professionals and third-party payors and our profitability and growth will depend on a number of factors, including:. • demonstration of safety and efficacy;. • changes in the practice guidelines and the standard of care for the targeted indication;. • relative convenience and ease of administration;. • the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects;. • budget impact of adoption of our product on relevant drug formularies. • the availability, cost and potential advantages of alternative treatments, including less expensive generic drugs;. • pricing, reimbursement and cost effectiveness, which may be subject to regulatory control;. • effectiveness of our or any of our partners' sales and marketing strategies;. • the product labeling or product insert required by the FDA or regulatory authority in other countries; and. • the availability of adequate third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement.. If any product candidate that we develop does not provide a treatment regimen that is as beneficial as, or is perceived as being as beneficial as, the current standard of care or otherwise does not provide patient benefit, that product candidate, if approved for commercial sale by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, likely will not achieve market acceptance. Our ability to effectively promote and sell any approved products will also depend on pricing and cost-effectiveness, including our ability to produce a product at a competitive price and our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. If any product candidate is approved but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, patients and third-party payors, our ability to generate revenues from that product would be substantially reduced. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits of our product candidates may require significant resources, may be constrained by FDA rules and policies on product promotion, and may never be successful.. Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can impact the use of our products and product candidates.. Government agencies promulgate regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our products and product candidates. In addition, professional societies, practice management groups, private health and science foundations and organizations involved in various diseases from time to time may also publish guidelines or recommendations to the health care and patient communities. Recommendations of government agencies or these other groups or organizations may relate to such matters as usage, dosage, route of administration and use of concomitant therapies. Recommendations or guidelines suggesting the reduced use of our products and product candidates or the use of competitive or alternative products that are followed by patients and health care providers could result in decreased use of our products and product candidates.. We face potential product liability exposure, and, if claims brought against us are successful, we could incur substantial liabilities.. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of marketed products expose us to product liability claims. Currently, we are not aware of any anticipated product liability claims with respect to our products or product candidates. In the future, an individual may bring a liability claim against us if one of our products or product candidates causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against the product liability claim, we may incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in:. • decreased demand for our approved products;. • impairment of our business reputation;. • withdrawal of clinical trial participants;. • costs of related litigation;. • initiation of investigations by regulators;. • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants;. 18. Table of Contents. • distraction of management's attention from our primary business;. • product recalls;. • loss of revenue; and. • the inability to commercialize our product candidates.. We currently have product liability insurance coverage for the commercial sale of TRULANCE and for the clinical trials of our product candidates which is subject to industry-standard terms, conditions and exclusions. Our current insurance coverage may prove insufficient to cover any liability claims brought against us. In addition, because of the increasing costs of insurance coverage, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy liabilities that may arise. A successful product liability claim or series of claims could cause our stock price to decline and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business.. Our failure to successfully discover, acquire, develop and market additional product candidates or approved products could impair our ability to grow.. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to develop and market additional products and product candidates. We are pursuing various therapeutic opportunities through our pipeline. We may spend several years completing our development of any particular current or future internal product candidate, and failure can occur at any stage. The product candidates to which we allocate our resources may not end up being successful. In addition, because our internal research capabilities are limited, we may be dependent upon pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic scientists and other researchers to sell or license products or technology to us. The success of this strategy depends partly upon our ability to identify, select, discover and acquire promising pharmaceutical product candidates and products. Failure of this strategy would impair our ability to grow.. The process of proposing, negotiating and implementing a license or acquisition of a product candidate or approved product is lengthy and complex. Other companies, including some with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the license or acquisition of product candidates and approved products. We have limited resources to identify and execute the acquisition or in-licensing of third-party products, businesses and technologies and integrate them into our current infrastructure. Moreover, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions or in-licensing opportunities that are never completed, or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional product candidates on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. In addition, future acquisitions may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including:. • disruption of our business and diversion of our management's time and attention to develop acquired products or technologies;. • incurrence of substantial debt, dilutive issuances of securities or depletion of cash to pay for acquisitions;. • higher than expected acquisition and integration costs;. • difficulty in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel;. • increased amortization expenses;. • assumption of known and unknown liabilities;. • impairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and. • inability to motivate key employees of any acquired businesses.. Further, any product candidate that we acquire may require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to risks of failure typical of pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that a product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities.. Even though TRULANCE is approved by the FDA for the treatment of adults with CIC and IBS-C, it faces post-approval development and regulatory requirements, which will present additional challenges.. In January 2017, the FDA approved TRULANCE as a once-daily treatment for adult men and women suffering from CIC and in January 2018 for IBS-C. TRULANCE will be subject to ongoing FDA requirements governing the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, recordkeeping and submission of safety and other post-market indications. Manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with GMP regulations. If we or a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a. 19. Table of Contents. product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with a facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or the manufacturer, including requiring implementation of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy program, withdrawal of the product from the market or suspension of manufacturing. If we, our partners or the manufacturing facilities for TRULANCE fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may:. • issue warning letters or untitled letters;. • impose civil or criminal penalties;. • suspend or withdraw regulatory approval;. • suspend any ongoing clinical trials;. • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to applications submitted by us;. • impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or. • seize or detain products or require us to initiate a product recall.. Even though TRULANCE is approved for marketing in the U.S., we or our partners may never receive approval to commercialize TRULANCE or our other product candidates outside of the United States.. In the future, we may seek to commercialize TRULANCE and/or our other product candidates, including dolcanatide, in foreign countries outside of the United States. In order to market any products outside of the United States, we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other jurisdictions regarding safety and efficacy. Approvals procedures vary among jurisdictions and can involve product testing and administrative review periods different from, and greater than, those in the United States. The time required to obtain approval in other jurisdictions might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Pursuant to our license agreement with Cipher Pharmaceuticals, Cipher is responsible for all regulatory activities in Canada.  If Cipher cannot obtain regulatory approval for TRULANCE in Canada, our relationship with Cipher will be adversely affected and we will not be able to generate any revenue from the license agreement with Cipher. In addition, even if we and Cipher obtains marketing approval for TRULANCE in Canada, Health Canada may impose restrictions on TRULANCE's conditions for use, distribution or marketing and in some cases may impose ongoing requirements for post-market surveillance, post-approval studies or clinical trials.. The approval process varies and the time needed to secure approval in any region such as the European Union or in a country with an independent review procedure may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. We cannot assure you that clinical trials conducted in one country will be accepted by other countries or that an approval in one country or region will result in approval elsewhere. Regulatory approval in one jurisdiction does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one jurisdiction may have a negative effect on the regulatory processes in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approvals in other jurisdictions or any delay or setback in obtaining such approvals could have an adverse effect on us. Such effects include the risks that TRULANCE or our other product candidates may not be approved for all indications for use included in proposed labeling or for any indications at all, which could limit the uses of TRULANCE or other product candidates and have an adverse effect on our products' commercial potential or require costly post-marketing studies.. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to seek or obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates.. We have agreements with third-party contract research organizations, or CROs, under which we have delegated to the CROs the responsibility to coordinate and monitor the conduct of our clinical trials and to manage data for our clinical programs. We, our CROs and our clinical sites are required to comply with current Good Clinical Practices, or GCPs, regulations and guidelines issued by the FDA and by similar governmental authorities in other countries where we are conducting clinical trials. We have an ongoing obligation to monitor the activities conducted by our CROs and at our clinical sites to confirm compliance with these requirements. In the future, if we, our CROs or our clinical sites fail to comply with applicable GCPs, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product produced under cGMP regulations, and may require a large number of test subjects. Our failure to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process.. If CROs do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our. 20. Table of Contents. clinical protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. As a result, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates would be harmed, our costs could increase, and our ability to generate revenue could be delayed.. Reimbursement may not be available for TRULANCE or our other product candidates, which would impede sales.. Market acceptance and sales of TRULANCE and other potential product candidates may depend on coverage and reimbursement policies and health care reform measures. Decisions about formulary coverage as well as levels at which government authorities and third-party payers, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, reimburse patients for the price they pay for our products as well as levels at which these payors pay directly for our products, where applicable, could affect whether we are able to commercialize these products. We cannot be sure that reimbursement will be available for any of these products. Also, we cannot be sure that coverage or reimbursement amounts will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, our products. If coverage and reimbursement are not available, are available only at limited levels, or are available and then withdrawn, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products.. In recent years, officials have made numerous proposals to change the health care system in the United States. These proposals include measures that would limit or prohibit payments for certain medical treatments or subject the pricing of drugs to government control. In addition, in many foreign countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, the pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control. If our products are or become subject to government regulation that limits or prohibits payment for our products, or that subjects the price of our products to governmental control, we may not be able to generate revenue, attain profitability or commercialize our products.. As a result of legislative proposals and the trend towards managed health care in the United States, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drugs. They may also impose strict prior authorization requirements and/or refuse to provide any coverage of uses of approved products for medical indications other than those for which the FDA has granted market approvals. As a result, significant uncertainty exists as to whether and how much third-party payors will reimburse patients for their use of newly-approved drugs, which in turn will put pressure on the pricing of drugs.. In addition, there is a degree of unpredictability with regard to the eventual pricing and reimbursement levels of medications in markets outside the United States. If the pricing and reimbursement levels of TRULANCE are lower than we anticipate, then affordability of, and market access to, TRULANCE may be adversely affected and thus market potential in these territories would suffer. Furthermore, with regard to any indications for which we may gain approval in territories outside the United States, the number of actual patients with the condition included in such approved indication may be smaller than we anticipate. If any such approved indication is narrower than we anticipate, the market potential in these countries for our product would suffer.. We will incur significant liability if it is determined that we are promoting any \"off-label\" use of TRULANCE.. Physicians are permitted to prescribe drug products and medical devices for uses that are not described in the product's labeling and that differ from those approved by the FDA or other applicable regulatory agencies. Such \"off-label\" uses are common across medical specialties. Although the FDA and other regulatory agencies do not regulate a physician's choice of treatments, the FDA and other regulatory agencies do restrict communications on the subject of off-label use. Companies are not permitted to promote drugs or medical devices for off-label uses. Accordingly, we do not permit promotion of TRULANCE in the U.S. for use in any indications other than CIC and IBS-C or in any patient populations other than adult men and women. Similarly, we do not permit promotion of any other approved product we develop, license, co-promote or otherwise partner for any indication, population or use not described in such product's label. The FDA and other regulatory and enforcement authorities actively enforce laws and regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing approval has not been obtained. A company that is found to have promoted off-label uses will be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions.. Notwithstanding the regulatory restrictions on off-label promotion, the FDA and other regulatory authorities allow companies to engage in truthful, non-misleading, and non-promotional scientific exchange concerning their products. We intend to engage in medical education activities and communicate with healthcare providers in compliance with all applicable laws, regulatory guidance and industry best practices. Although we believe we have put in place a robust compliance program, which is designed to ensure that all such activities are performed in a legal and compliant manner, we cannot be certain that our program will address all areas of potential exposure and the risks in this area cannot be entirely eliminated.. 21. Table of Contents. If we fail to comply with healthcare and other regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. TRULANCE is marketed in the U.S. and is covered by federal healthcare programs; and, as a result, certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to product promotion and fraud and abuse are applicable to, and may affect, our business. These laws and regulations include:. • federal healthcare program anti-kickback laws, which prohibit, among other things, persons from soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual, for an item or service or the purchasing or ordering of a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid;. • federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, information or claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent, and which may apply to us for reasons including providing coding and billing advice to customers;. • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, which prohibits executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters and which also imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information;. • the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, which among other things, strictly regulates drug product and medical device marketing, prohibits manufacturers from marketing such products for off-label use and regulates the distribution of samples;. • federal laws that require pharmaceutical manufacturers to report certain calculated product prices to the government or provide certain discounts or rebates to government authorities or private entities, often as a condition of reimbursement under government healthcare programs;. • the so-called \"federal sunshine\" law, which requires pharmaceutical and medical device companies to monitor and report certain financial interactions with physicians and other healthcare professionals and healthcare organizations to the federal government for re-disclosure to the public; and. • state law equivalents of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payer, including commercial insurers, state transparency laws and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by federal laws, thus complicating compliance efforts.. Our global activities are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act which prohibits corporations and individuals from paying, offering to pay, or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party, or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business or to otherwise influence a person working in an official capacity. We are also subject to similar anti-bribery laws in the other countries in which we do business.. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other laws, rules or regulations that apply to us, we will be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Although compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, rules or regulations, we cannot be certain that our program will address all areas of potential exposure and the risks in this area cannot be entirely eliminated, particularly because the requirements and government interpretations of the requirements in this space are constantly evolving. Any action against us for violation of these laws, rules or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business, as well as damage our business or reputation. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security, fraud and reporting laws may prove costly.. Healthcare reform and other governmental and private payer initiatives could hinder or prevent our products' or product candidates' commercial success.. The U.S. government and other governments have shown significant interest in pursuing continued healthcare reform. Any government-adopted reform measures could adversely impact the pricing of healthcare products and services in the United States or internationally and the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies or other third party payors. The continuing efforts of the U.S. and foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors. 22. Table of Contents. of health care services to contain or reduce health care costs may adversely affect our ability to set prices for our products which we believe are fair, and our ability to generate revenues and achieve and maintain profitability.. New laws, regulations and judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations and decisions, that relate to healthcare availability, methods of delivery or payment for products and services, or sales, marketing or pricing, may limit our potential revenue, and we may need to revise our research and development programs. The pricing and reimbursement environment may change in the future and become more challenging due to several reasons, including policies advanced by the current executive administration in the United States, new healthcare legislation or fiscal challenges faced by government health administration authorities. Specifically, in both the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably.. For example, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or the PPACA has substantially changed the way healthcare is financed by both government health plans and private insurers, and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. The PPACA contains a number of provisions that are expected to impact our business and operations in ways that may negatively affect our potential revenues in the future. For example, the PPACA imposes a non-deductible excise tax on pharmaceutical manufacturers or importers that sell branded prescription drugs to U.S. government programs which we believe will increase the cost of our products. In addition, as part of the PPACA's provisions closing a funding gap that currently exists in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program (commonly known as the \"donut hole\"), we will be required to provide a discount on branded prescription drugs equal to 50% of the government-negotiated price, for drugs provided to certain beneficiaries who fall within the donut hole. Similarly, PPACA increases the minimum level of Medicaid rebates payable by manufacturers of brand-name drugs from 15.1% to 23.1% and requires collection of rebates for drugs paid by Medicaid managed care organizations. The PPACA also includes significant changes to the 340B drug discount program including expansion of the list of eligible covered entities that may purchase drugs under the program. At the same time, the expansion in eligibility for health insurance benefits created under PPACA is expected to increase the number of patients with insurance coverage who may receive our products. While it is too early to predict all the specific effects the PPACA or any future healthcare reform legislation will have on our business, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. Some of the provisions of the PPACA have yet to be implemented, and there have been legal and political challenges to certain aspects of the PPACA. Since January 2017, President Trump has signed two executive orders and other directives designed to delay, circumvent, or loosen certain requirements mandated by the PPACA. Concurrently, Congress has considered legislation that would repeal or repeal and replace all or part of the PPACA. While Congress has not passed repeal legislation, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 includes a provision repealing, effective January 1, 2019, the tax-based shared responsibility payment imposed by the PPACA on certain individuals who fail to maintain qualifying health coverage for all or part of a year that is commonly referred to as the \"individual mandate\". Congress may consider other legislation to repeal or replace elements of the PPACA.. Congress periodically adopts legislation like the PPACA and the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, that modifies Medicare reimbursement and coverage policies pertaining to prescription drugs. Implementation of these laws is subject to ongoing revision through regulatory and sub regulatory policies. Congress also may consider additional changes to Medicare policies, potentially including Medicare prescription drug policies, as part of ongoing budget negotiations. While the scope of any such legislation is uncertain at this time, there can be no assurances that future legislation or regulations will not decrease the coverage and price that we may receive for our proposed products. Other third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. It will be time consuming and expensive for us to go through the process of seeking coverage and reimbursement from Medicare and private payors. Our proposed products may not be considered cost-effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our proposed products on a profitable basis. Further federal and state proposals and health care reforms are likely which could limit the prices that can be charged for our products and product candidates that we develop and may further limit our commercial opportunities. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by proposed healthcare reforms, by the Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation, by the possible effect of such current or future legislation on amounts that private insurers will pay and by other health care reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future.. Individual states have become increasingly aggressive in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical and biological product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access, and marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures, and  to encourage importation from other countries and bulk purchasing. Legally mandated price controls on payment amounts by third-party payors or other restrictions could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. In addition, regional healthcare authorities and individual hospitals are increasingly using bidding procedures to determine what. 23. Table of Contents. pharmaceutical products and which suppliers will be included in their prescription drug and other healthcare programs. This could reduce ultimate demand for our products or put pressure on our product pricing, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. In addition, given recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of healthcare, Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on healthcare reform, the cost of prescription drugs and the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid programs. While we cannot predict the full outcome of any such legislation, it may result in decreased reimbursement for drugs, which may further exacerbate industry-wide pressure to reduce prescription drug prices. This could harm our ability to generate revenues. Increases in importation or re-importation of pharmaceutical products from foreign countries into the United States could put competitive pressure on our ability to profitably price our products, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. We might elect not to seek approval for or market our products in foreign jurisdictions in order to minimize the risk of re-importation, which could also reduce the revenue we generate from our product sales. It is also possible that other legislative proposals having similar effects will be adopted.. In September 2007, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 was enacted, giving the FDA enhanced post-marketing authority, including the authority to require post-marketing studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with risk evaluations and mitigation strategies approved by the FDA. The FDA's exercise of this authority could result in delays or increased costs following the commercial launch of TRULANCE for the treatment of adult men and women suffering from CIC and IBS-C and could result in potential restrictions on the sale and/or distribution of TRULANCE, even in its approved indication and patient populations.. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our suppliers and business partners, as well as personally identifiable information of clinical trial participants and employees. Similarly, our business partners and third party providers possess certain of our sensitive data. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information, including our data being breached at our business partners or third-party providers, could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disrupt our operations, and damage our reputation which could adversely affect our business.. It is difficult and costly to protect our proprietary rights, and we may not be able to ensure their protection.. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection of our product candidates, and the methods used to manufacture them, as well as successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. We will only be able to protect our product candidates from unauthorized making, using, selling and offering to sell or importation by third parties to the extent that we have rights under valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets that cover these activities.. For example:. • others may be able to make compounds that are competitive with our products but that are not covered by the claims of our patents;. • we may not have been the first to make the inventions covered by our pending patent applications;. • we may not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions;. • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies;. • it is possible that our pending patent applications will not result in issued patents. • it is possible that our issued patents could be narrowed in scope, invalidated, held to be unenforceable, or circumvented;. • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or. • the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business.. 24. Table of Contents. We also may rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how.. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights and we may be unable to protect our rights to, or use, our technology.. If we choose to go to court to stop someone else from using the inventions claimed in our patents, that individual or company has the right to ask the court to rule that these patents are invalid and/or should not be enforced against that third party. These lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources even if we were successful in stopping the infringement of these patents. In addition, there is a risk that the court will decide that these patents are not valid and that we do not have the right to stop the other party from using the inventions. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of these patents is upheld, the court will refuse to stop the other party on the ground that such other party's activities do not infringe our rights to these patents.. Furthermore, a third party may claim that we are using inventions covered by the third party's patent rights and may go to court to stop us from engaging in our normal operations and activities, including making or selling our product candidates. These lawsuits are costly and could affect our results of operations and divert the attention of managerial and technical personnel. There is a risk that a court would decide that we are infringing the third party's patents and would order us to stop the activities covered by the patents. In addition, there is a risk that a court will order us to pay the other party damages for having violated the other party's patents. The biotechnology industry has produced a proliferation of patents, and it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of products or methods of use. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts, and the interpretation is not always uniform. If we are sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that our products or methods of use either do not infringe the patent claims of the relevant patent and/or that the patent claims are invalid, and we may not be able to do this. Proving invalidity, in particular, is difficult since it requires a showing of clear and convincing evidence to overcome the presumption of validity enjoyed by issued patents.. Because some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until eighteen months after filing, and publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our issued patents or our pending applications or that we were the first to invent the technology. Our competitors have filed, and may in the future file, patent applications covering technology similar to ours. Any such patent application may have priority over our patent applications and could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such technologies. If another party has filed a United States patent application on inventions similar to ours, we may have to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the PTO, to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our United States patent position with respect to such inventions.. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations.. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submissions, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. The PTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentaries, fee payment and other provisions during the patent process. There are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. In such an event, competitors might be able to enter the market earlier than would otherwise have been the case.. 25. Table of Contents. We have not yet registered trademarks for the company name \"Synergy Pharmaceuticals,\" TRULANCE or other potential drug names for plecanatide in all our potential markets, and failure to secure those registrations could adversely affect our ability to market TRULANCE, other product candidates and our business.. We have applied to register trademarks for our company name and for TRULANCE in the United States and other jurisdictions, but may not have covered all potential markets. Our trademark applications have received registrations in some jurisdictions. Our remaining trademark applications may not be allowed for registration, and our registered trademarks may not be maintained or enforced. During trademark registration proceedings, we may receive rejections. Although we are given an opportunity to respond to those rejections, we may be unable to overcome such rejections. In addition, in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions, third parties are given an opportunity to oppose pending trademark applications and to seek to cancel registered trademarks. Oppositions or cancellation proceedings may be filed against our trademarks, and our trademarks may not survive such proceedings. In jurisdictions where we have not yet filed trademark applications, we may be conflicted from obtaining registration if/when we do file trademark applications due to third party conflicts. Failure to secure trademark registrations in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions could adversely affect our ability to market TRULANCE, our other product candidates and our business.. We received a demand letter from a large pharmaceutical company, or PharmCo, demanding that we withdraw our applications for TRULANCE in the United States and elsewhere, claiming that the mark is too similar to a mark used in connection with products and services related to diabetes. On November 2, 2016, we entered into a Trademark Consent Agreement pursuant to which PharmCo agreed to our use and registration of the TRULANCE mark in connection with products for the treatment of constipation and irritable bowel syndrome and related conditions in oral tablet form. We agreed not to use such TRULANCE or any mark including the term TRULANCE or commencing with the letters TRUL on or in connection with products and services related to diabetes or any product involving subcutaneous injection and, where possible, to amend our trademark filings to include the limitation \"all of the aforesaid excluding pharmaceutical preparations for the treatment of diabetes.\" PharmCo has reserved its right to object and take legal action in the event we use a mark with the prefix TRU in connection with drugs in the diabetes field.. In addition, an opposition has been filed in the European Union to our application to register SYNERGY PHARMACEUTICALS.. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information and may not adequately protect our intellectual property, which could limit our ability to compete.. Because we operate in the highly technical field of research and development of small molecule drugs, we rely in part on trade secret protection in order to protect our proprietary trade secrets and unpatented know-how. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect, and we cannot be certain that others will not develop the same or similar technologies on their own. We have taken steps, including entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers, manufacturers and other advisors, to protect our trade secrets and unpatented know-how. These agreements generally require that the other party keep confidential and not disclose to third parties all confidential information developed by the party or made known to the party by us during the course of the party's relationship with us. We also typically obtain agreements from these parties that provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. However, these agreements may not be honored and may not effectively assign intellectual property rights to us. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets or know-how is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets or know-how. The failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position.. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers.. As is common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.. 26. Table of Contents. Risks Related to the Convertible Senior Notes. The indenture for our senior convertible notes, or the Notes, contains covenants limiting our financial and operating flexibility.. The indenture for the Notes contains covenants that will restrict our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to:. • declare or pay any dividends on our or our subsidiaries' capital stock;. • redeem or repurchase capital stock, or prepay or repurchase subordinated debt.. These restrictive covenants could limit our ability to pursue our growth plans, restrict our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry and increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. We may enter into additional financing arrangements in the future, which could further restrict our flexibility.. Any defaults of covenants contained in the Notes may lead to an event of default under the Notes and the indenture. We may not be able to pay any amounts due to holders of the Notes in the event of such default, and such default may significantly impair our ability to satisfy our obligations under the Notes.. We will not make any adjustment to the conversion rate for Notes converted in connection with a fundamental change, and noteholders will not be compensated for any lost value of their Notes as a result of such transaction.. We will not increase or make any other adjustment to the conversion rate upon a conversion of Notes in connection with a fundamental change or similar event. Therefore, noteholders will not be compensated for any lost value of their Notes as a result of such transaction.. The Notes are effectively subordinated to any of our future secured debt and any liabilities of our subsidiaries.. The Notes will rank senior in right of payment to our future indebtedness that is expressly subordinated in right of payment to the Notes; equal in right of payment to our trade payables and other future unsecured indebtedness that is not so subordinated; effectively junior to any of our secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness; and structurally junior to all future indebtedness (including trade payables) incurred by our subsidiaries. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization or other winding up, our assets that secure debt ranking senior or equal in right of payment to the Notes will be available to pay obligations on the Notes only after the secured debt has been repaid in full. There may not be sufficient assets remaining to pay amounts due on any or all of the Notes then outstanding.. Servicing our debt will require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our debt.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including the Notes, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations.. Recent regulatory actions may adversely affect the trading price and liquidity of the Notes.. We expect that investors in, and potential purchasers of, the Notes may employ, or seek to employ, an arbitrage strategy with respect to the Notes. Investors that employ an arbitrage strategy with respect to the Notes typically implement that strategy by selling short the common stock underlying the Notes and dynamically adjusting their short position while they hold the Notes. Investors may also implement this hedging strategy by entering into swaps on our common stock in lieu of or in addition to short selling the common stock.. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and other regulatory and self-regulatory authorities have implemented various rules and may adopt additional rules in the future that may impact those engaging in short selling activity involving equity securities (including our common stock), including Rule 201 of SEC regulation SHO, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.'s \"Limit Up-Limit Down\" program, market-wide circuit breaker systems that halt trading of stock for certain. 27. Table of Contents. periods following specific market declines, and rules stemming from the enactment and implementation of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Past regulatory actions, including emergency actions or regulations, have had a significant impact on the trading prices and liquidity of equity-linked instruments. Any governmental action that similarly restricts the ability of investors in, or potential purchasers of, the Notes to effect short sales of our common stock could similarly adversely affect the trading price and the liquidity of the Notes.. Volatility in the market price and trading volume of our common stock could adversely impact the trading price of the Notes.. The stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including in response to the risks described in this section and elsewhere in this Form 10-K or for reasons unrelated to our operations, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions or negative announcements by our customers, competitors or suppliers regarding their own performance, as well as industry conditions and general financial, economic and political instability. A decrease in the market price of our common stock would likely adversely impact the trading price of the Notes. The market price of our common stock could also be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view the Notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in us and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our common stock. This trading activity could, in turn, affect the trading prices of the Notes. This may result in greater volatility in the trading price of the Notes than would be expected for non-convertible debt securities.. Subject to certain limitations, we continue to have the ability to incur debt; if we incur substantial additional debt, these higher levels of debt may affect our ability to pay the principal of and interest on the Notes.. Subject to certain limitations, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future, some of which may be secured debt. The indenture governing the Notes does not restrict our ability to incur additional subordinated indebtedness or require us to maintain financial ratios or specified levels of net worth or liquidity. If we incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, these higher levels of indebtedness may affect our ability to pay the principal of and interest on the Notes, or any fundamental change purchase price, and our creditworthiness generally.. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to purchase the Notes as required upon a fundamental change, and our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to purchase the Notes.. Following a fundamental change as defined, holders of Notes will have the right to require us to purchase their Notes for cash. A fundamental change may also constitute an event of default or prepayment under, and result in the acceleration of the maturity of, our then-existing indebtedness. We cannot assure noteholders that we will have sufficient financial resources, or will be able to arrange financing, to pay the fundamental change purchase price in cash with respect to any Notes surrendered by holders for purchase upon a fundamental change. In addition, restrictions in our then existing credit facilities or other indebtedness, if any, may not allow us to purchase the Notes upon a fundamental change. Our failure to purchase the Notes upon a fundamental change when required would result in an event of default with respect to the Notes which could, in turn, constitute a default under the terms of our other indebtedness, if any. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and purchase the Notes.. Some significant restructuring transactions may not constitute a fundamental change, in which case we would not be obligated to offer to purchase the Notes.. Upon the occurrence of a fundamental change as defined, noteholders have the right to require us to purchase their Notes. However, the fundamental change provisions will not afford protection to holders of Notes in the event of certain transactions that could adversely affect the Notes. For example, transactions such as leveraged recapitalizations, refinancings, restructurings or acquisitions initiated by us would not constitute a fundamental change requiring us to repurchase the Notes. In addition, holders will not be entitled to require us to purchase their Notes upon a significant change in the composition of our board. In the event of any such transaction, holders of the Notes would not have the right to require us to purchase their Notes, even though each of these transactions could increase the amount of our indebtedness, or otherwise adversely affect our capital structure or any credit ratings, thereby adversely affecting holders of the Notes.. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price for our common stock and adversely impact the trading price of the Notes.. In the future, we may sell additional shares of our common stock to raise capital. In addition, a substantial number of shares of our common stock are reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options and warrants and upon conversion of. 28. Table of Contents. the Notes. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. The issuance and sale of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the trading price of the Notes and the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities.. The Notes may not have an active market, and the price may be volatile, so noteholders may be unable to sell their Notes at the price they desire or at all.. The Notes are a new issue of securities for which there is currently no active trading market. We cannot be certain that a liquid market will develop for the Notes, that noteholders will be able to sell any of the Notes at a particular time (if at all) or that the prices they receive if or when noteholders sell the Notes will be above their initial offering price. In addition, we do not intend to apply to list the Notes on any securities exchange or for inclusion of the Notes on any automated dealer quotation system. The initial purchasers have advised us that they intend to make a market in the Notes, but they are not obligated to do so and may discontinue any market-making in the Notes at any time in their sole discretion and without notice. Future trading prices of the Notes on any market that may develop will depend on many factors, including our operating performance and financial condition, prevailing interest rates, the market for similar securities and general economic conditions.. Moreover, even if noteholders are able to sell their Notes, they may not receive a favorable price for their Notes. Future trading prices of the Notes will depend on many factors, including, among other things, prevailing interest rates, our operating results, the price of our common stock and the market for similar securities. Historically, the market for convertible debt has been subject to disruptions that have caused volatility in prices. It is possible that the market for the Notes will be subject to disruptions that may have a negative effect on the holders of the Notes, regardless of our prospects or financial performance.. Any adverse rating of the Notes may negatively affect the trading price and liquidity of the Notes and the price of our common stock.. We do not intend to seek a rating on the Notes. However, if a rating service were to rate the Notes and if such rating service were to assign the Notes a rating lower than the rating expected by investors or were to lower its rating on the Notes below the rating initially assigned to the Notes or otherwise announce its intention to put the Notes on credit watch, the trading price or liquidity of the Notes and the price of our common stock could decline.. The conversion rate of the Notes may not be adjusted for all dilutive events.. The conversion rate of the Notes is subject to adjustment for certain events, including, but not limited to, the issuance to all or substantially all holders of our common stock of stock dividends, certain rights, options or warrants, capital stock, indebtedness, assets or cash, and subdivisions and combinations of our common stock, and certain issuer tender or exchange offers as defined. However, the conversion rate will not be adjusted for other events, such as a third-party tender or exchange offer or an issuance of common stock for cash, that may adversely affect the trading price of the Notes or the common stock. An event that adversely affects the value of the Notes may occur, and that event may not result in an adjustment to the conversion rate.. The Notes are protected by restrictive covenants only to a limited extent.. The indenture governing the Notes does not contain any financial or operating covenants or restrictions on the incurrence of indebtedness or the issuance or repurchase of securities by us or any of our subsidiaries. The indenture does not contain covenants or other provisions to afford protection to holders of the Notes in the event of a fundamental change except as defined. We could engage in many types of transactions, such as acquisitions, refinancings or recapitalizations that could substantially affect our capital structure and the value of the Notes and shares of our common stock but may not constitute a fundamental change that permits holders to require us to purchase their Notes. For these reasons, noteholders should not consider the covenants in the indenture or the fundamental change purchase feature of the Notes as significant factors in evaluating whether to invest in the Notes.. The issuance of shares of common stock upon conversions of the Notes will dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their Notes.. The issuance of shares of common stock upon the conversion of some or all of the Notes will dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of such shares of our common stock could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Notes could depress the price of our common stock.. 29. Table of Contents. Noteholders are not entitled to any rights with respect to our common stock, but are subject to all changes made with respect to our common stock to the extent noteholders convert their Notes and receive shares of our common stock.. Holders who convert their Notes will not be entitled to any rights with respect to our common stock (including, without limitation, voting rights and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on our common stock) until the conversion date relating to such Notes, but holders of Notes will be subject to all changes affecting our common stock. For example, if an amendment is proposed to our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended or our amended and restated by-laws requiring stockholder approval and the record date for determining the stockholders of record entitled to vote on the amendment occurs prior to the conversion date with respect to any Notes surrendered for conversion, then the holder surrendering such Notes will not be entitled to vote on the amendment, although such holder will nevertheless be subject to any changes affecting our common stock.. Upon conversion of the Notes, holders may receive less valuable consideration than expected because the value of our common stock may decline after they exercise their conversion right but before we settle our conversion obligation.. Under the Notes, a converting holder will be exposed to fluctuations in the value of our common stock during the period from the date such holder surrenders Notes for conversion until the date we settle our conversion obligation.. Upon conversion of the Notes, we will be required to deliver the shares of our common stock, together with cash for any fractional share, on the third business day following the relevant conversion date. Accordingly, if the price of our common stock decreases during this period, the value of the shares that noteholders receive will be adversely affected and would be less than the conversion value of the Notes on the conversion date.. The fundamental change purchase feature of the Notes may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial attempt to take over our company.. The terms of the Notes require us to offer to purchase the Notes for cash in the event of a fundamental change, as defined. A non-stock takeover of our company may trigger the requirement that we purchase the Notes. This feature may have the effect of delaying or preventing a takeover of our company that would otherwise be beneficial to investors.. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and adversely affected by several factors.. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly in response to various factors and events, including:. • the commercial performance of TRULANCE in the U.S.;. • any third-party coverage and reimbursement policies for TRULANCE;. • market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors;. • our ability to execute our business plan;. • announcements regarding regulatory developments with respect to our product candidates;. • announcements concerning product development results, including clinical trial results, or intellectual property rights of others;. • developments, litigation or public concern about the safety of TRULANCE or our potential products;. • our issuance of additional securities, including debt or equity or a combination thereof, necessary to fund our operating expenses;. • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors;. • loss of any strategic relationship;. • industry developments, including, without limitation, changes in healthcare policies or practices or third-party reimbursement policies;. • deviations in our operating results from any guidance we may provide or the estimates of securities analysts;. • economic and other external factors effecting U.S. or global equity markets;. • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; and. • discussion of us or our stock price in the financial or scientific press or in online investor communities.. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. 30. Table of Contents. We have not paid cash dividends in the past and do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any return on investment in shares of common stock may be limited to the value of our common stock.. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our capital stock will depend on our earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at such time as the board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on any investment in shares of our common stock will only occur if the common stock price appreciates.. A sale of a substantial number of shares of the common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline.. If our stockholders sell, or the market perceives that our stockholders intend to sell for various reasons, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market it may make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate.. The stock markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stock of biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of our securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation often is expensive and diverts management's attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business.. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate significantly.. We expect our operating results to be subject to frequent fluctuations. Our net profit or loss and other operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including:. • the level of underlying demand for TRULANCE in the U.S. and wholesalers' buying patterns;. • the costs associated with commercializing TRULANCE in the U.S.;. • the cost of manufacturing and distributing TRULANCE;. • variations in the level of expenses related to our development programs;. • any excess or obsolete inventory or asset impairments and associated write-downs;. • initiation or completion of clinical trials;. • any intellectual property infringement lawsuit in which we may become involved;. • regulatory developments affecting our product candidates;. • our execution of any collaborative, licensing or similar arrangements, and the timing of payments under these arrangements;. • any material lawsuit in which we may become involved; and. • interest payments on our Term Loan and outstanding Notes.. If our operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly or annual fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards may be subject to limitation.. Generally, a change of more than 50% in the ownership of a company's stock, by value, over a three-year period constitutes an ownership change for U.S. federal income tax purposes. An ownership change may limit our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards attributable to the period prior to the change. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carryforwards to offset U.S. federal taxable income may become subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability for us. At December 31, 2017, we had net operating loss carryforwards aggregating approximately $733.6 million. We have determined that an ownership change occurred as of April 30, 2003 pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. In addition, the shares of our common stock that we issued from July 14, 2008 through July 8, 2010 have resulted in an additional ownership change. As a result of these events and other prospective dilutive events our ability to utilize our operating loss carry forwards is and may be further limited.. 31. Table of Contents. U.S. federal income tax reform could adversely affect us.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" (TCJA) that significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The TCJA, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, and puts into effect the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a territorial system. We do not expect tax reform to have a material impact to our projection of minimal cash taxes or to our net operating losses. Our net deferred tax assets and liabilities will be revalued at the newly enacted U.S. corporate rate, and the impact will be recognized in our tax expense in the year of enactment. We continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our business. The impact of this tax reform on holders of our common stock is uncertain and could be adverse. This Annual Report on Form 10-K does not discuss any such tax legislation or the manner in which it might affect purchasers of our common stock. We urge our stockholders to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to such legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in our common stock.. If we fail to comply with the rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 related to accounting controls and procedures, or if we discover material weaknesses and deficiencies in our internal control and accounting procedures, our stock price could decline significantly and raising capital could be more difficult.. If we fail to comply with the rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 related to disclosure controls and procedures, or, if we discover material weaknesses and other deficiencies in our internal control and accounting procedures, our stock price could decline significantly and raising capital could be more difficult. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. If material weaknesses or significant deficiencies are discovered or if we otherwise fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal control, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our common stock could drop significantly.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control, which may cause our stock price, and the value of the Notes, to decline.. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended and our amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if closing such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders or holders of the Notes. We are authorized to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. This preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by our board of directors without further action by stockholders. The terms of any series of preferred stock may include voting rights (including the right to vote as a series on particular matters), preferences as to dividend, liquidation, conversion and redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. No preferred stock is currently outstanding. The issuance of any preferred stock could materially adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock, and therefore, reduce the value of our common stock and the Notes. In particular, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell our assets to, a third party and thereby preserve control by the present management.. Provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended and our amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law also could have the effect of discouraging potential acquisition proposals or making a tender offer or delaying or preventing a change in control, including changes a stockholder or holder of the Notes might consider favorable. Such provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. In particular, our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended and amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law, as applicable, among other things:. • provide the board of directors with the ability to alter the bylaws without stockholder approval;. • place limitations on the removal of directors; and. • provide that vacancies on the board of directors may be filled by a majority of directors in office, although less than a quorum.. 32. Table of Contents. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits \"business combinations\" between a publicly-held Delaware corporation and an \"interested stockholder,\" which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation's voting stock for a three-year period following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder. These provisions are expected to discourage certain types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage persons seeking to acquire control of us to first negotiate with our board. These provisions may delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us, which may cause the market price of our common stock and the value of the Notes to decline.. Risks related to Senior Secured Term Loan (\"Term Loan\"). Our term loan agreement with CRG Servicing LLC (or CRG) and other lenders party thereto contains restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. We may be required to make a prepayment or repay the outstanding indebtedness earlier than we expect under our Term Loan Agreement if a prepayment event or an event of default occurs, including a material adverse change with respect to us, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business.. In September 2017, we entered into a term loan agreement with CRG. Pursuant to the loan agreement, we borrowed $100 million from the lenders as of the closing date. In February 2018 we amended the Term Loan agreement. The amended Term Loan provides for future borrowings of $25 million, $25 million and $50 million on or before June 30, 2018, September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2018, respectively.. Our agreement with CRG contains various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • enter into a merger, consolidation or certain changing of control events without complying with the terms of the loan agreement;. • change the nature of our business;. • amend, modify or waive any of our material agreements or organizational documents;. • grant certain types of liens on our assets;. • make certain investments;. • pay cash dividends; and. • enter into material transactions with affiliates.. The restrictive covenants of the term loan agreement could cause us to be unable to pursue business opportunities that we or our stockholders may consider beneficial. A breach of any of these covenants could result in an event of default under the term loan agreement. An event of default will also occur if, among other things, a material adverse change in our business, operations or condition occurs, or a material impairment of the prospect of our repayment of any portion of the amounts we owe under the term loan agreement occurs. In the case of a continuing event of default under the agreement, CRG could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit, proceed against the collateral in which we granted CRG a security interest under the term loan agreement and related agreements, or otherwise exercise the rights of a secured creditor. Amounts outstanding under the term loan agreement are secured by all of our existing and future assets (excluding certain intellectual property).. We may not have enough available cash or be able to raise additional funds on satisfactory terms, if at all, through equity or debt financings to (i) make any required prepayment or (ii) repay such indebtedness at the time any such prepayment event or event of default occurs. In such an event, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or commercialization efforts or grant to others rights to develop and market product candidates that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected as a result."
