[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial results and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Report because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Before you invest in our Company, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks, including the risks described below. The risks that have been highlighted here are not the only ones that we face. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business. We anticipate that our revenue and operating results will fluctuate, which could adversely affect the enterprise value of our Company and our securities.. Our operating results have fluctuated and will fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including:. • the impact of the business acquisitions and dispositions we make;. • general economic conditions and level of IT and CE spending and outsourced business services;. • the loss or consolidation of one or more of our significant OEM suppliers or customers;. • consolidation of our Concentrix competitors, including insourcing by clients;. • market acceptance, quality, pricing, availability and useful life of our products and services, as well as the mix of our products and services sold;. • competitive conditions in our industry;. • pricing, margin and other terms with our OEM suppliers;. • decline in inventory value as a result of product obsolescence and market acceptance;. • variations in our levels of excess inventory, vendor reserves and doubtful accounts;. • fluctuations in rates in the currencies in which we transact;. • changes in the terms of OEM supplier-inventory protections, such as price protection and return rights; and. 8. Table of Contents. • the expansion of our design and integration solutions sales and operations, globally.. Although we attempt to control our expense levels, these levels are based, in part, on anticipated revenue. Therefore, we may not be able to control spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall.. Our operating results in the Technology Solutions segment also are affected by the seasonality of the IT and CE products and services industry. We have historically experienced higher sales in our fourth fiscal quarter due to patterns in the capital budgeting, federal government spending and purchasing cycles of end-users. Revenue in our Concentrix segment is typically higher in our fourth quarter due to seasonal patterns in our clients' business. These patterns may not be repeated in subsequent periods. You should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of future performance. In future years, our operating results may be below our expectations or those of our public market analysts or investors, which would likely cause our share price to decline.. We are subject to uncertainties and variability in demand by our customers, which could decrease revenue and adversely affect our operating results, and we have customer contracts with provisions that could cause fluctuations in our revenue.. In our Technology Solutions segment, we sell to our customers on a purchase order basis, rather than pursuant to long-term contracts or contracts with minimum purchase requirements. Consequently, our sales are subject to demand variability by our customers. The level and timing of orders placed by our customers vary for a variety of reasons, including seasonal buying by end-users, the introduction of new hardware and software technologies and general economic conditions. Customers submitting a purchase order may cancel, reduce or delay their orders. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demands of our reseller, retail and design and integration solutions customers, we may lose customers because we have an inadequate supply of products, or we may have excess inventory, either of which could harm our business, financial position and operating results.. With regard to our design and integration solutions customers, unique parts are purchased based both on customer purchase orders and forecasted demand. We have limited protection against excess inventory should anticipated demand not materialize.. In our Concentrix segment, we provide global business services to our customers under contracts with provisions that, if triggered, could impact our profitability. For example, many of our contracts may be terminated with a short amount of notice, and to the extent our customers terminate these contracts, we could experience unexpected fluctuations in our revenue and operating results from period to period. Additionally, some contracts have performance-related bonus or penalty provisions, whereby we could receive a bonus if we satisfy certain performance levels or have to pay a penalty for failing to do so. Whether we receive a bonus or are required to pay a penalty is unpredictable, and may cause additional fluctuations in our financial results. In addition, our customers may not guarantee a minimum volume; however, we hire employees based on anticipated average volumes. If we fail to anticipate volumes correctly, our operations and financial results may suffer. The reduction of volume, loss of customers, payment of penalties or inability to terminate any unprofitable contracts could have an adverse impact on our operations and financial results.. In our Technology Solutions segment, we depend on a small number of OEMs to supply the IT and CE products and services that we sell and the loss of, or a material change in, our business relationship with a major OEM supplier could adversely affect our business, financial position and operating results.. Our future success is highly dependent on our relationships with a small number of OEM suppliers. For example, sales of HP products and services comprised approximately 13%, 17%, and 25% of our consolidated revenue for fiscal years 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. Our OEM supplier agreements typically are short-term and may be terminated without cause upon short notice. The loss or deterioration of our relationship with HP or any other major OEM supplier, the authorization by OEM suppliers of additional distributors, the sale of products by OEM suppliers directly to our reseller and retail customers and end-users, or our failure to establish relationships with new OEM suppliers or to expand the distribution and supply chain services that we provide OEM suppliers could adversely affect our business, financial position and operating results. In addition, OEM suppliers may face liquidity or solvency issues that in turn could negatively affect our business and operating results.. Our business is also highly dependent on the terms provided by our OEM suppliers. Generally, each OEM supplier has the ability to change the terms and conditions of its distribution agreements, such as reducing the amount of price protection and return rights or reducing the level of purchase discounts, incentive rebates and marketing programs available to us.. From time to time we may conduct business with a supplier without a formal agreement because the agreement has expired or was otherwise terminated. In such case, we are subject to additional risk with respect to products, warranties and. 9. Table of Contents. returns, and other terms and conditions. If we are unable to pass the impact of these changes through to our reseller and retail customers, our business, financial position and operating results could be adversely affected.. In our Technology Solutions segment our gross margins are low, which magnifies the impact of variations in gross margin, operating costs and our operating results.. As a result of significant price competition in the IT and CE products and services industry, our gross margins are low, and we expect them to continue to be low in the future. Increased competition arising from industry consolidation and low demand for certain IT and CE products and services may hinder our ability to maintain or improve our gross margins. These low gross margins magnify the impact of variations in revenue, operating costs and our operating results. A portion of our operating expense is relatively fixed, and planned expenditures are based in part on anticipated orders that are forecasted with limited visibility of future demand. As a result, we may not be able to reduce our operating expense to sufficiently mitigate any further reductions in gross profit or margin in the future. If we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure in response to competitive price pressures, our business and operating results could suffer.. We also receive purchase discounts and rebates from OEM suppliers based on various factors, including sales or purchase volume and breadth of customers. A decrease in net sales could negatively affect the level of volume rebates received from our OEM suppliers and thus, our gross margin. Because some rebates from OEM suppliers are based on percentage increases in sales of products, it may become more difficult for us to achieve the percentage growth in sales required for larger discounts due to the current size of our revenue base. A decrease or elimination of purchase discounts and rebates from our OEM suppliers would adversely affect our business and operating results.. We are subject to the risk that our inventory value may decline, and protective terms under our OEM supplier agreements may not adequately cover the decline in value, which in turn may harm our business, financial position and operating results.. The IT and CE products industry is subject to rapid technological change, new and enhanced product specification requirements, and evolving industry standards. These changes may cause inventory on hand to decline substantially in value or to rapidly become obsolete. Most of our OEM suppliers offer limited protection from the loss in value of inventory. For example, we can receive a credit from many OEM suppliers for products held in inventory in the event of a supplier price reduction. In addition, we have a limited right to return a certain percentage of purchases to most OEM suppliers. These policies are often subject to time restrictions and do not protect us in all cases from declines in inventory value. In addition, our OEM suppliers may become unable or unwilling to fulfill their protection obligations to us. The decrease or elimination of price protection, or the inability of our OEM suppliers to fulfill their protection obligations, could lower our gross margins and cause us to record inventory write-downs. If we are unable to manage our inventory with our OEM suppliers with a high degree of precision, we may have insufficient product supplies or we may have excess inventory, resulting in inventory write-downs, either of which could harm our business, financial position and operating results.. We depend on OEM suppliers to maintain an adequate supply of products to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis, and any supply shortages or delays could cause us to be unable to timely fulfill orders, which in turn could harm our business, financial position and operating results.. Our ability to obtain particular products in the required quantities and to fulfill reseller and retail customer orders on a timely basis is critical to our success. In most cases, we have no guaranteed price or delivery agreements with our OEM suppliers. We occasionally experience a supply shortage of certain products as a result of strong demand or problems experienced by our OEM suppliers. If shortages or delays persist, the price of those products may increase, or the products may not be available at all. Such delays could also impact our ability to procure critical components required to complete customer orders. In addition, our OEM suppliers may decide to distribute, or to substantially increase their existing distribution business, through other distributors, their own dealer networks, or directly to resellers, retailers or end-users. Accordingly, if we are not able to secure and maintain an adequate supply of products to fulfill our customer orders on a timely basis, our business, financial position and operating results could be adversely affected.. Our delivery center activities in our Concentrix business are significantly concentrated in India and the Philippines, which may expose us to operational risks.. Operations in our Concentrix segment are based on a global delivery model with client services provided from delivery centers located in several countries with a significant percentage of our workforce located in India and the Philippines. Socio-economic situations which are specific to these countries can severely disrupt our operations and impact our ability to fulfill our contractual obligations to our clients. If these regions experience severe natural calamities or political unrest, our personnel resources may be affected, our IT and communication infrastructure may be at risk and the client processes that we manage. 10. Table of Contents. may be adversely affected. Changes in governments, laws, regulations, minimum wages, and taxation rules may severely impact our ability to do business in these countries, our business practices, our operating costs and our results of operations.. Both our Technology Solutions and Concentrix segments have customer concentration and intense competition which could adversely impact our revenue.. Our business experiences customer concentration from time to time. For example, in 2017, one customer accounted for 21% of our consolidated revenue. While we do not believe that the loss of any single customer would have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, such loss could result in an adverse impact on certain of our businesses. For example, the systems design and integration solutions business of our Technology Solutions segment has significant customer concentration, requires investments in working capital and infrastructure, and has customer contracts that often offer limited or no volume guarantees or protection for end-of-life investments. The loss of a customer or reduction in order volumes could adversely impact our revenue, provision for inventory losses, the absorption of fixed overhead costs and our future expansion plans. The system design and integration solutions business operates in a competitive environment. Volumes can fluctuate based on customer demand, delivery quality and the competitive landscape. Our ability to deliver customized solutions on a timely basis is critical to our success. Any delay could impact our competitive position and result in loss of customer orders, which could impact our financial position and operating results.. In our Concentrix segment, we have experienced customer concentration. This customer concentration increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our operating results, depending on the seasonal pattern of our top customers' business. In addition, our top customers could make greater demands on us with regard to pricing and contractual terms in general. The loss of, or significant decrease in demand from, any of our top customers could affect our business, results of operations and financial condition of the segment.. The market for CE products that we distribute is characterized by short product life cycles. Increased competition for limited retailer shelf space, decreased promotional support from resellers or retailers or increased popularity of downloadable or online content and services could adversely impact our revenue.. The market for CE products, such as personal computers and tablets, mobile devices, wearable devices, video game titles and hardware, and audio or visual equipment, is characterized by short product life cycles and frequent introductions of new products. The markets in which we compete frequently introduce new products to meet changing consumer preferences and trends. As a result, competition is intense for resellers' and retailers' limited shelf space and promotions. If our vendors' new products are not introduced in a timely manner or do not achieve significant market acceptance, we may not generate sufficient sales or profitability. Further, if we are unable to successfully compete for resellers' or retailers' space and promotional resources, this could negatively impact market acceptance of our products and negatively impact our business and operating results.. Our Concentrix business is subject to dynamic changes in its business model and intense competition, which in turn could cause our operations to suffer.. The customer engagement services industry is highly competitive, highly fragmented and subject to rapid change. We believe that the principal competitive factors in this market are breadth and depth of process and domain expertise, service quality, the ability to attract, train and retain qualified people, compliance rigor, global delivery capabilities, price and marketing and sales capabilities. We compete for business with a variety of companies, including in-house captives of potential clients. If our customers place more focus in this area and internalize these operations, this could also cause a significant reduction in the size of the available market for third party service providers like us. Similarly, if competitors offer their services at lower margins to gain market share, this could cause a significant decrease in the available market for us. In addition, our success may depend on our ability to continue to develop and implement services and solutions that anticipate and respond to rapid and continuing changes in technology and offerings to serve the evolving needs of our clients. Some of these technologies, such as cloud-based services, artificial intelligence and automation, may cause an adverse shift in the way our existing business operations are conducted or decrease the size of the available market.. If we are unable to hire and retain employees with domain expertise for our Concentrix business, our operations will be disrupted, and such disruption may impact our ability to manage our costs, which in turn could impact our profitability.. The success of our operations and the quality of our services are highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain skilled personnel in all of our international delivery centers. The industry is characterized by high employee attrition rates and we face competition in hiring, retaining and motivating talented and skilled leaders and employees with domain experience.. In addition, our profitability is directly affected by the utilization rate of our personnel resources. If we are unable to achieve optimum utilization of our personnel resources, we may experience erosions in our profit margin. However, if our. 11. Table of Contents. utilization is too high, it may result in a deterioration in the quality of services provided to our clients and may also result in higher attrition rates. If we are unable to manage our employee attrition rates, adequately motivate our employees or utilize our personnel resources efficiently, our operations will be disrupted, and such disruption may impact our ability to manage our costs, which in turn could impact our profitability.. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over operations we perform for our clients in our Concentrix business or if our information systems are breached or client data are compromised, client relations may suffer, which in turn may adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.. Our customer engagement services business involves us representing our clients in certain critical operations of their business processes such as sales, marketing and customer support. If our clients experience disruptions in these operations or are dissatisfied with the quality of service provided, our client relationships may suffer and we may face possible legal action.. In addition, in management of our clients' operations, we manage large volumes of customer information and confidential data. We may be liable and our operations may be disrupted if there is a breach of confidentiality of client data, if an employee violates policies and regulations governing the management of personal information, if we lose our client's data or if the security of our IT systems is compromised.. We may also be liable if we do not maintain adequate internal controls over the processes we manage for our clients or if we fail to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to the operations in which we represent our clients. Our clients may request us to obtain audit reports over our internal controls. If we are unable to complete these audit reports in a timely manner, or if internal control deficiencies are identified in the audit process, our client relationships may suffer.. If we are unable to successfully manage our delivery centers in the Concentrix business, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our Concentrix business, which has extensive international operations, may be adversely impacted if we are unable to manage and communicate with the resources located internationally. Service quality may be placed at risk and our ability to optimize our resources may be compromised if we are unable to manage our resources remotely. Our Concentrix business uses a wide variety of technologies to allow us to manage a large volume of work. These technologies are designed to keep our employees productive. Any failure in technology may have a negative impact on our operations. The success of our services primarily depends on the performance of our employees and resulting customer satisfaction. Any increase in average waiting time or handling time or lack of promptness or technical expertise of our employees will directly impact customer satisfaction. Any adverse customer satisfaction may impact the overall business. If we are unable to successfully manage our delivery centers, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates and limitations on the convertibility of foreign currencies could adversely affect our business and operating results.. Approximately 27% of our consolidated revenue in fiscal years 2017 and 2016, and 26% for fiscal year 2015 were generated outside the United States. Most of our international revenue, cost of revenue and operating expenses are denominated in foreign currencies. Westcon-Comstor Latin America revenue is generally denominated in local currencies while cost of revenue is denominated in U.S. dollar. We presently have currency exposure arising from both sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies. Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our operating margins. For example, if these foreign currencies appreciate against the U.S. dollar, it will be more expensive in terms of U.S. dollars to purchase inventory or pay expenses with foreign currencies. This could have a negative impact on us if revenue related to these purchases is transacted in U.S. dollars. In addition, currency devaluation can result in our products, the majority of which are purchased by us in U.S. dollars, to be relatively more expensive to procure than products manufactured locally. We currently conduct only limited hedging activities, which involve the use of currency forward contracts. Hedging foreign currencies can be risky. Certain of these hedge positions are undesignated hedges of balance sheet exposures, such as intercompany loans, and typically have maturities of less than one year.. In our Concentrix segment, our customer engagement services are delivered from several delivery centers located around the world, with significant operations in India and the Philippines. As a result, our revenue may be earned in currencies that are different from the currencies in which we incur corresponding expenses. Fluctuations in the value of currencies, such as the Indian Rupee, the Philippine Peso, and the Brazilian Real against the U.S. Dollar, and inflation in the local economies in which these delivery centers are located, could increase the operating and labor costs in these delivery centers which can result in reduced profitability.. There is also additional risk if the currency is not freely or actively traded. Some currencies, such as the Chinese Renminbi, Indian Rupee and Philippines Peso, are subject to limitations on conversion into other currencies, which can limit. 12. Table of Contents. our ability to hedge or to otherwise react to rapid foreign currency devaluations. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our business and operating results.. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes, nor do we hedge our foreign currency exposure in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates.. As a general rule, we do not use financial instruments to hedge local currency denominated operating expenses in countries where a natural hedge exists. For example, in many countries, revenue from the local currency services substantially offsets the local currency denominated operating expenses.. Because we conduct substantial operations in China, risks associated with economic, political and social events in China could negatively affect our business and operating results.. A substantial portion of our IT systems operations, including our IT systems support and software development operations, and a portion of our Concentrix services, are located in China. In addition, we also conduct general and administrative activities from our facilities in China. As of November 30, 2017, we had approximately 7,000 personnel located in China. Our operations in China are subject to a number of risks relating to China's economic and political systems, including:. • a government controlled foreign exchange rate and limitations on the convertibility of the Chinese Renminbi;. • extensive government regulation;. • changing governmental policies relating to tax benefits available to foreign-owned businesses;. • the telecommunications infrastructure;. • a relatively uncertain legal system; and. • uncertainties related to continued economic and social reform.. Our IT systems are an important part of our global operations. Any significant interruption in service, whether resulting from any of the above uncertainties, natural disasters or otherwise, could result in delays in our inventory purchasing, errors in order fulfillment, reduced levels of customer service and other disruptions in operations, any of which could cause our business and operating results to suffer.. We may have higher than anticipated tax liabilities.. We conduct business globally and file income tax returns in various tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including:. • changes in income before taxes in various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates;. • changing tax laws, such as Public Law 115-97, informally referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\"), regulations, and/or interpretations of such tax laws in multiple jurisdictions;. • effect of tax rate on accounting for acquisitions and dispositions;. • issues arising from tax audit or examinations and any related interest or penalties; and. • uncertainty in obtaining tax holiday extensions or expiration or loss of tax holidays in various jurisdictions.. We report our results of operations based on our determination of the amount of taxes owed in various tax jurisdictions in which we operate. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation, judgment and calculations where the ultimate tax determination may not be certain. Our determination of tax liability is always subject to review or examination by tax authorities in various tax jurisdictions. Any adverse outcome of such review or examination could have a negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. The results from various tax examinations and audits may differ from the liabilities recorded in our financial statements and could adversely affect our financial results and cash flows.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed the TCJA into law. The TCJA contains significant changes to U.S. federal corporate income taxation, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% for US taxable income, resulting in a one-time remeasurement of deferred taxes to reflect their value at a lower tax rate of 21%, limitation of the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks,. 13. Table of Contents. deemed repatriation, resulting in one-time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates, elimination of U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), and immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time. Many of the TCJA's provisions, such as the reduction in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate apply to us in fiscal 2018. Due to this reduction, accounting rules will require us to adjust the value of our deferred tax assets and liabilities in the first quarter of our fiscal year 2018. Any such adjustment could adversely affect our earnings for the adjustment period.  We are currently evaluating the overall effect of the TCJA on our business and financial condition.. We have pursued and intend to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions or investments in new markets and may encounter risks associated with these activities, which could harm our business and operating results.. We have in the past pursued, and in the future expect to pursue, acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses and assets in new markets, either within or outside the IT and CE products and services industries and the customer engagement services industry, that complement or expand our existing business. Our acquisition strategy involves a number of risks, including:. • difficulty in successfully integrating acquired operations, IT systems, customers, OEM supplier relationships, products, services and businesses with our operations;. • risk that the acquired businesses will fail to maintain the quality of services that we have historically provided;. • loss of key employees of acquired operations or inability to hire key employees necessary for our expansion;. • diversion of our capital and management attention away from other business issues;. • increase in our expenses and working capital requirements;. • in the case of acquisitions that we may make outside of the United States, difficulty in operating in foreign countries and over significant geographical distances;. • other financial risks, such as potential liabilities of the businesses we acquire; and. • our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues with the acquired company's product and service quality, financial disclosures, accounting practices or internal control deficiencies.. We may incur additional costs and certain redundant expenses in connection with our acquisitions and investments, which may have an adverse impact on our operating margins. Future acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of additional debt, large write-offs, a decrease in future profitability, or future losses. The incurrence of debt in connection with any future acquisitions could restrict our ability to obtain working capital or other financing necessary to operate our business. Our recent and future acquisitions or investments may not be successful, and if we fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, our business and operating results could be harmed.. Our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets could become impaired, which could have a material non-cash adverse effect on our results of operations.. We recorded substantial goodwill and amortizable intangible assets as a result of our previous acquisitions. We review our goodwill and intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We assess whether there has been an impairment in the value of goodwill at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable include declines in stock price, market capitalization or cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. We could be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets were determined, negatively impacting our results of operations.. Because of the capital-intensive nature of our Technology Solutions business, we need continued access to capital, which if not available to us or if not available on favorable terms, could harm our ability to operate or expand our business.. Our Technology Solutions business requires significant levels of capital to finance accounts receivable and product inventory that is not financed by trade creditors. If cash from available sources is insufficient, proceeds from our accounts receivable securitization and revolving credit programs are limited or cash is used for unanticipated needs, we may require additional capital sooner than anticipated.. In the event we are required, or elect, to raise additional funds, we may be unable to do so on favorable terms, or at all, and may incur expenses in raising the additional funds. Our current and future indebtedness could adversely affect our operating results and severely limit our ability to plan for, or react to, changes in our business or industry. We could also be limited by financial and other restrictive covenants in securitization or credit arrangements, including limitations on our. 14. Table of Contents. borrowing of additional funds and issuing dividends. Furthermore, the cost of securitization or debt financing could significantly increase in the future, making it cost prohibitive to securitize our accounts receivable or borrow, which could force us to issue new equity securities. If we issue new equity securities, existing stockholders may experience dilution, or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. Any inability to raise additional capital when required could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.. The terms of our debt arrangements impose significant restrictions on our ability to operate which in turn could negatively affect our ability to respond to business and market conditions and therefore could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.. As of November 30, 2017, we had $1,946.0 million in outstanding short and long-term borrowings under term loans, lines of credit, accounts receivable securitization programs and capital leases, excluding trade payables. The terms of one or more of the agreements under which this indebtedness was incurred may limit or restrict, among other things, our ability to:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • make investments;. • pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments;. • repurchase common stock;. • consummate certain asset sales or acquisitions;. • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and. • merge, consolidate or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets.. We are also required to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests under certain of our debt facilities. Our inability to meet these ratios and tests could result in the acceleration of the repayment of the related debt, termination of the applicable facility, an increase in our effective cost of funds or the cross-default of other credit and securitization arrangements. As a result, our ability to operate may be restricted and our ability to respond to business and market conditions may be limited, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations, which could adversely affect our business.. Our ability to make scheduled debt payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot be certain that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We cannot be certain that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Some of our credit facilities restrict our ability to dispose assets and use the proceeds from such disposition. As such, we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or use any resulting proceeds and, in addition, such proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due.. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result:. • our lenders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable;. • the lenders under our credit agreements could terminate their commitments to loan us money and, in the case of our secured credit agreements, foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings;. • we could be forced to raise additional capital through the issuance of additional, potentially dilutive securities; and. 15. Table of Contents. • we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation, which is likely to result in delays in the payment of our indebtedness and in the exercise of enforcement remedies related to our indebtedness.. If the interest rates on our borrowings increase, our access to capital and net income could be adversely affected.. Our borrowings and securitization arrangements are variable-rate obligations and expose us to interest rate risks. If interest rates increase, debt service obligations and our interest expense will increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same. Our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease.. An increase in interest rates may increase our future borrowing costs and restrict our access to capital. Additionally, current market conditions, the recovering global economy, and overall credit conditions could limit our availability of capital, which could cause increases in interest margin spreads over underlying indices, effectively increasing the cost of our borrowing. While some of our credit facilities have contractually negotiated spreads, any changes to these spreads in connection with renegotiations of our credit facilities could adversely affect our results of operations.. We have entered into interest rate swaps with financial institutions to effectively convert a portion of our floating rate debt to a fixed interest rate to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. In the event of the nonperformance by the counterparties, we are exposed to credit losses.. A portion of our revenue is financed by floor plan financing companies and any termination or reduction in these financing arrangements could increase our financing costs and harm our business and operating results.. A portion of our product distribution revenue is financed by floor plan financing companies. Floor plan financing companies are engaged by our customers to finance, or floor, the purchase of products from us. In exchange for a fee, we transfer the risk of loss on the sale of our products to the floor plan companies. We currently receive payment from these financing companies within approximately 15 to 30 days from the date of the sale, which allows our business to operate at much lower relative working capital levels than if such programs were not available. If these floor plan arrangements are terminated or substantially reduced, the need for more working capital and the increased financing cost could harm our business and operating results.. We have significant credit exposure to our customers, and negative trends in their businesses could cause us significant credit loss and negatively impact our cash flow and liquidity position.. We extend credit to our customers for a significant portion of our sales to them and they have a period of time, generally 30 days after the date of invoice, to make payment. However, in certain cases, for some of our larger customers, we offer longer terms of payment. As a result, we are subject to the risk that our customers will not pay on time or at all. Our credit exposure risk may increase due to financial difficulties or liquidity or solvency issues experienced by our customers, resulting in their inability to repay us. The liquidity or solvency issues may increase as a result of an economic downturn or a decrease in IT or CE spending by end-users. If we are unable to collect payments in a timely manner from our customers due to changes in financial or economic conditions, or for other reasons, and we are unable to collect under our credit insurance policies, we may write-off the amount due from the customers. These write-offs may result in credit insurance being more expensive and on terms that are less favorable to us and may negatively impact our ability to utilize accounts receivable-based financing. In addition, the failure of customers to pay within a specified time period after the date of an invoice could result in defaults under our accounts receivable securitization program. These circumstances could negatively impact our cash flow and liquidity position, or result in the cross-default to our other indebtedness and acceleration of the repayment of our indebtedness. Further, we are exposed to higher collection risk as we continue to expand internationally, where the payment cycles are generally longer and the credit rating process may not be as robust as in the United States, and where our access to accounts receivable financing is more limited.. We are dependent on a variety of IT and telecommunications systems and the Internet, and any failure of these systems could adversely impact our business and operating results.. We depend on IT and telecommunications systems and the Internet for our operations. These systems support a variety of functions including inventory management, order processing, shipping, shipment tracking, billing, and our Concentrix business.. Failures or significant downtime of our IT or telecommunications systems could prevent us from taking customer orders, printing product pick-lists, shipping products, billing customers and handling call volume. Frequent or prolonged interruption in our ability to provide service in our Concentrix business would adversely affect our client relationships and damage our reputation. Sales also may be affected if our reseller and retail customers are unable to access our pricing and product availability information. We also rely on the Internet, and in particular EDI and XML, for a large portion of our orders and. 16. Table of Contents. information exchanges with our OEM suppliers and reseller and retail customers. The Internet and individual websites have experienced a number of disruptions and slowdowns, some of which were caused by organized attacks. In addition, some websites have experienced security breakdowns. If we were to experience a security breakdown, disruption or breach that compromised sensitive information, it could harm our relationship with our OEM suppliers and reseller and retail customers. Disruption of our website or the Internet in general could impair our order processing or more generally prevent our OEM suppliers and reseller and retail customers from accessing information. Our Concentrix business is dependent upon telephone and data services provided by third party telecommunications service vendors and our IT and telecommunications systems. Any significant increase in our IT and telecommunications costs or temporary or permanent loss of our IT or telecommunications systems could harm our relationships with our customers. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results.. We rely on independent shipping companies for delivery of products, and price increases or service interruptions from these carriers could adversely affect our business and operating results.. We rely almost entirely on arrangements with independent shipping companies, such as FedEx and UPS, for the delivery of our products from OEM suppliers and delivery of products to reseller and retail customers. Freight and shipping charges can have a significant impact on our gross margin. As a result, an increase in freight surcharges due to rising fuel cost or general price increases will have an immediate adverse effect on our margins, unless we are able to pass the increased charges to our reseller and retail customers or renegotiate terms with our OEM suppliers. In addition, in the past, carriers have experienced work stoppages due to labor negotiations with management. An increase in freight or shipping charges, the termination of our arrangements with one or more of these independent shipping companies, the failure or inability of one or more of these independent shipping companies to deliver products, or the unavailability of their shipping services, even temporarily, could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.. Because of the experience of our key personnel in the IT, CE and the customer engagement services industries and their technological and industry expertise, if we were to lose any of our key personnel, it could inhibit our ability to operate and grow our business successfully.. We are dependent in large part on our ability to retain the services of our key senior executives and other technological and industry experts and personnel. On January 9, 2018, Kevin Murai announced his retirement as President and Chief Executive Officer (\"CEO\") effective March 1, 2018 and Dennis Polk will assume the President and CEO role of SYNNEX Corporation. Except for the employment agreements with Kevin Murai and Dennis Polk, we generally do not have employment agreements with our executives or employees. The above actions do not insure against the loss of key personnel, but reflect our long-term succession planning strategies in place. We also do not carry \"key person\" insurance coverage for any of our key executives. We compete for qualified senior management and technical personnel. The loss of, or inability to hire, key executives or qualified employees could inhibit our ability to operate and grow our business successfully.. We may experience theft of product from our warehouses, water damage to our properties and other casualty events which could harm our operating results.. From time to time, we have experienced incidents of theft at various facilities, water damages to our properties and other casualty events. These types of incidents may make it more difficult or expensive for us to obtain insurance coverage in the future. Also, the same or similar incidents may occur in the future for which we may not have sufficient insurance coverage or policy limits to be fully compensated for the loss, which may have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.. We may become involved in intellectual property or other disputes that could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert the efforts of our management, and require us to pay substantial damages or require us to obtain a license, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.. From time to time, we receive notifications alleging infringements of intellectual property rights allegedly held by others relating to our business or the products we sell or integrate for our OEM suppliers and others. Litigation with respect to patents or other intellectual property matters could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and other resources and could have an adverse effect on our business. Although we generally have various levels of indemnification protection from our OEM suppliers and design and integration solutions customers, in many cases any indemnification to which we may be entitled is subject to maximum limits or other restrictions.. In addition, we have developed proprietary IT systems, mobile applications, and cloud-based technology and acquired technologies that play an important role in our business. If any infringement claim is successful against us and if indemnification is not available or sufficient, we may be required to pay substantial damages or we may need to seek and obtain a license of the other party's intellectual property rights. We may be unable to obtain such a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.. 17. Table of Contents. We are from time to time involved in other litigation in the ordinary course of business. We may not be successful in defending these or other claims. Regardless of the outcome, litigation could result in substantial expense and could divert the efforts of our management.. We have significant operations concentrated in North and Latin America, Asia-Pacific and Europe and any disruption in the operations of our facilities could harm our business and operating results.. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters, adverse weather conditions and other business disruptions, which could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. We have significant operations in our facilities located in North and Latin America, Asia-Pacific and Europe. As a result, any prolonged disruption in the operations of our facilities, whether due to technical difficulties, power failures, break-ins, destruction or damage to the facilities as a result of a natural disaster, fire or any other reason, could harm our operating results. If there are related disruptions in local or international supply chains, we may experience supply shortages or delays in receiving products from our OEM suppliers or experience other delays in shipping to our customers. If we are unable to fulfill customer requirements in a timely manner, this could harm our operating results. For example, our Philippines operation is at greater risk due to adverse weather conditions, such as typhoons, mudslides and floods. We currently have a disaster recovery plan and business interruption insurance; however, they may not be sufficient to compensate for losses that may occur.. Global health and economic, political and social conditions may harm our ability to do business, increase our costs and negatively affect our stock price.. Worldwide economic conditions remain uncertain due to adverse consequences concerning the United Kingdom's referendum to vote for exit from the European Union, market volatility as a result of political leadership in certain countries and other disruptions to global and regional economies and markets. External factors, such as potential terrorist attacks, acts of war, geopolitical and social turmoil or epidemics and other similar outbreaks in many parts of the world, could prevent or hinder our ability to do business, increase our costs and negatively affect our stock price. More generally, these geopolitical, social and economic conditions could result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. For example, increased instability may enhance volatility in currency exchange rates, cause our customers or potential customers to delay or reduce spending on our products or services, and limit our suppliers' access to credit. It could also adversely impact our ability to obtain adequate insurance at reasonable rates and may require us to incur increased costs for security measures for our domestic and international operations. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorism, acts of war and similar events. These uncertainties make it difficult for us and our suppliers and customers to accurately plan future business activities.. Part of our business is conducted outside of the United States, exposing us to additional risks that may not exist in the United States, which in turn could cause our business and operating results to suffer.. We have significant international operations and presence which subjects us to risks, including:. • political or economic instability;. • extensive governmental regulation;. • changes in import/export duties;. • fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates;. • trade restrictions;. • compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, U.K. bribery laws and similar laws;. • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing operations in certain foreign countries;. • work stoppages or other changes in labor conditions;. • minimum wage increases;. • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable on a timely basis or at all;. • taxes; and. • seasonal reductions in business activity in some parts of the world.. 18. Table of Contents. We may continue to expand internationally to respond to competitive pressure and customer and market requirements. Establishing operations in any foreign country or region presents risks such as those described above as well as risks specific to the particular country or region. In addition, until a payment history is established over time with customers in a new geography or region, the likelihood of collecting accounts receivable generated by such operations could be less than our expectations. As a result, there is a greater risk that reserves set with respect to the collection of such accounts receivable may be inadequate. Furthermore, if our international expansion efforts in any foreign country are unsuccessful, we may decide to cease operations, which would likely cause us to incur additional expense and loss.. In addition, changes in policies or laws of the United States or foreign governments resulting in, among other things, higher taxation, currency conversion limitations, restrictions on fund transfers or the expropriation of private enterprises, could reduce the anticipated benefits of our international expansion. Any actions by countries in which we conduct business to reverse policies that encourage foreign trade or investment could adversely affect our business. If we fail to realize the anticipated growth of our future international operations, our business and operating results could suffer.. We may not be able to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of the Westcon-Comstor Americas business if we fail to integrate this business successfully, which could reduce our profitability and adversely affect our stock price.. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Westcon-Comstor Americas acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate this business successfully and efficiently with our business. The integration of this business in several geographic locations, including ones new to us, is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The integration process may disrupt our business and, if implemented ineffectively, preclude realization of the full benefits expected by us. If we are not successful in this integration, our financial results could be adversely impacted. Our management will be required to dedicate significant time and effort to this integration process, which could divert their attention from other business concerns. In addition, the overall integration may result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer and other relationships, a loss of key employees, and diversion of management's attention, and may cause our stock price to decline. The difficulties of combining the operations of the two businesses include, among others:. •challenges associated with minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns;. •coordinating geographically separate organizations which may be subject to additional complications resulting from being geographically distant from other of our operations;. •coordinating and combining international operations, relationships, and facilities, and eliminating duplicative operations;. •retaining key employees and maintaining employee morale, particularly in areas where we do not currently have personnel;. •unanticipated changes in general business or market conditions that might interfere with our ability to carry out all of our integration plans;. •unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems;. •geopolitical events in relevant geographic locations, including natural disasters, public health issues, acts of war, and terrorism;. •issues not discovered in our due diligence process; and. •preserving important strategic and customer relationships.. In addition, even if the integration is successful, we may not realize the full potential benefits of the transaction, including synergies, revenues, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that we expect. Such benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. As a result, we cannot assure you that this acquisition will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the transaction.. 19. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Relationship with MiTAC Holdings Corporation. The concentration of ownership of our common stock among our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders could allow them to influence all matters requiring stockholder approval and could delay or prevent a change in control of SYNNEX.. As of November 30, 2017, our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders owned approximately 26% of our outstanding common stock. In particular, MiTAC Holdings Corporation (\"MiTAC Holdings\") and its affiliates owned approximately 24% of our common stock. MiTAC Holdings is a publicly-traded company on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. As a result, these stockholders have the potential ability to influence or control matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers and acquisitions, or exert influence on actions of the Board of Directors. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock.. There could be potential conflicts of interest between us and MiTAC Holdings and its affiliates, which could affect our business and operating results.. MiTAC Holdings' and its affiliates' continuing beneficial ownership of our common stock could create conflicts of interest with respect to a variety of matters, such as potential acquisitions, competition, issuance or disposition of securities, election of directors, payment of dividends and other business matters. For example, we currently purchase inventories from MiTAC Holdings. Similar risks could exist as a result of Matthew Miau's positions as our Chairman Emeritus, a member of our Board of Directors, the Chairman of MiTAC Holdings and as a director or officer of MiTAC Holdings' affiliates. For fiscal year 2017, Mr. Miau received the same compensation as our independent directors and during fiscal year 2018, Mr. Miau will receive the same compensation as our independent directors. Mr. Miau's compensation as one of our directors is based upon the approval of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, which is solely composed of independent members of the Board of Directors. We also have adopted a policy requiring material transactions in which any of our directors has a potential conflict of interest to be approved by our Audit Committee, which is also composed of independent members of the Board of Directors.. Synnex Technology International Corp., or Synnex Technology International, a publicly-traded company based in Taiwan and affiliated with MiTAC Holdings, currently provides distribution and fulfillment services to various markets in Asia and Australia, and is also a potential competitor of ours. As of November 30, 2017, MiTAC Incorporated, a privately-held company based in Taiwan and a separate entity from MiTAC Holdings, directly and indirectly owned approximately 13.6% of Synnex Technology International and approximately 7.8% of MiTAC Holdings. As of November 30, 2017, MiTAC Holdings directly and indirectly owned 0.2% of Synnex Technology International and Synnex Technology International directly and indirectly owned approximately 0.0% of MiTAC Holdings. In addition, MiTAC Holdings directly and indirectly owned approximately 8.7% of MiTAC Incorporated and Synnex Technology International directly and indirectly owned approximately 18.4% of MiTAC Incorporated as of November 30, 2017. Synnex Technology International indirectly through its ownership of Peer Developments Limited owned approximately 10.5% of our outstanding common stock as of November 30, 2017. Neither MiTAC Holdings, nor Synnex Technology International is restricted from competing with us. In the future, we may increasingly compete with Synnex Technology International, particularly if our business in Asia expands or Synnex Technology International expands its business into geographies or customers we serve. Although Synnex Technology International is a separate entity from us, it is possible that there will be confusion as a result of the similarity of our names. Moreover, we cannot limit or control the use of the Synnex name by Synnex Technology International in certain geographies and our use of the Synnex name may be restricted as a result of registration of the name by Synnex Technology International or the prior use in jurisdictions where it currently operates.. Risks Related to Our Industry. Volatility in the IT and CE industries could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. We have in the past, experienced decreases in demand and we anticipate that the industries we operate in will be subject to a high degree of cyclicality in the future. Softening demand for our products and services caused by an ongoing economic downturn and over-capacity may impact our revenue, as well the salability of inventory and collection of reseller and retail customer accounts receivable. In addition, if we are not able to adequately adapt to the emergence of new technology or customer demand, such as cloud-based IT infrastructure and software-as-a-service, our future operating results could be adversely affected.. 20. Table of Contents. We are subject to intense competition in the Technology Solutions and Concentrix businesses, both in the United States and internationally, and if we fail to compete successfully, we will be unable to gain or retain market share.. We operate in a highly competitive environment, both in the United States and internationally. This competition is based primarily on product and service availability, credit availability, price, speed of delivery, ability to tailor specific solutions to customer needs, quality and depth of product and service lines, pre-sales and post-sales technical support, flexibility and timely response to design changes, and technological capabilities, service and support. We compete with a variety of regional, national and international IT and CE product and service providers and contract manufacturers and assemblers and providers of customer engagement services. In some instances, we also compete with our own customers, our own OEM suppliers and MiTAC Holdings and its affiliates.. Our primary competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial, operating, manufacturing and marketing resources than us. Some of our competitors may have broader geographic breadth and range of services than us and may have more developed relationships with their existing customers. We may lose market share in the United States or in international markets, or may be forced in the future to reduce our prices in response to the actions of our competitors and thereby experience a reduction in our gross margins.. In addition, in our Concentrix business, we also face competition from our customers. For example, some of our customers may have internal capabilities and resources to provide their own customer contact centers. Furthermore, pricing pressures and quality of services could impact our business adversely. Our ability to provide a high quality of service is dependent on our ability to retain and properly train our employees and to continue investing in our infrastructure, including IT and telecommunications systems.. We may initiate other business activities, including the broadening of our supply chain capabilities, and may face competition from companies with more experience in those new areas. In addition, as we enter new areas of business, we may also encounter increased competition from current competitors or from new competitors, including some that may once have been our OEM suppliers or reseller and retail customers. Increased competition and negative reaction from our OEM suppliers or reseller and retail customers resulting from our expansion into new business areas could harm our business and operating results.. Our business may be adversely affected by some OEM suppliers' strategies to consolidate business or increase their direct sales, which in turn could cause our business and operating results to suffer.. A determination by any of our primary OEMs to consolidate their business with other distributors or integration service providers could negatively affect our business and operating results. Consolidation of OEM suppliers has resulted in fewer sources for some of the products and services that we distribute. This consolidation has also resulted in larger OEM suppliers that have significant operating and financial resources. Other suppliers may reduce or eliminate promotional activities to reduce their expenses, which could, in turn, result in declined demand from our reseller or retailer customers and end-users.. Some OEM suppliers, including some of the leading OEM suppliers that we service, have been selling products and services directly to reseller and retail customers and end-users, thereby limiting our business opportunities. If large OEM suppliers increasingly sell directly to end-users or our resellers and retailers, rather than use us as the distributor of their products and services, our business and operating results will suffer.. The IT and CE industries are subject to rapidly changing technologies and process developments, and we may not be able to adequately adjust our business to these changes, which in turn would harm our business and operating results.. Dynamic changes in the IT and CE industries, including the consolidation of OEM suppliers and reductions in the number of authorized distributors used by OEM suppliers, have resulted in new and increased responsibilities for management personnel and have placed, and continue to place, a significant strain upon our management, operating and financial systems and other resources. We may be unable to successfully respond to and manage our business in light of industry developments and trends. As end users migrate to cloud-based IT infrastructure and software-as-a-service, sales of hardware products may be reduced, thereby negatively impacting our operating results. Also crucial to our success in managing our operations is our ability to achieve additional economies of scale. Our failure to achieve these additional economies of scale or to respond to changes in the IT and CE industries could adversely affect our business and operating results.. 21. Table of Contents. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected, which in turn could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. We completed an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for fiscal year 2017, and we have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to continue to comply with these requirements. However, internal control over financial reporting has inherent limitations, including human error, the possibility that controls could be circumvented or become inadequate because of changed conditions, and fraud. Because of the inherent limitations, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not always be prevented or timely detected. We expect to continue to incur significant expense and to devote management resources to Section 404 compliance. In the event that one of our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions and our reputation may be adversely affected and the market price of our stock could decline.. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations and cause us to change our business practices.. We prepare our financial statements to conform to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in those policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Changes to those rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business.. For example, in May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued a comprehensive new revenue recognition standard for contracts with customers that will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance. The standard permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. This guidance will be applicable to us at the beginning of our first quarter of fiscal year 2019."
