[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. An investment in our common stock involves various risks, including those mentioned below and those that are discussed from time to time in our periodic filings with the SEC. Investors should carefully consider these risks, along with the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. There may be additional risks of which we are currently unaware, or which we currently consider immaterial. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and value of our common stock.. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND THE FINANCIAL SERVICES INDUSTRY.. Our revenues are based on the market value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to fluctuation caused by factors outside of our control.. We derive our revenues primarily from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries to individual and institutional investors in the T. Rowe Price U.S. mutual funds and other investment products. Our investment advisory fees typically are calculated as a percentage of the market value of the assets under our management. We generally earn higher fees on assets invested in our equity funds and equity investment portfolios than we earn on assets invested in our fixed income funds and portfolios. Among equity products, there is a significant variation in fees earned from index-based products at the low end and emerging markets products at the high end. Fees also vary across the fixed income products, though not as widely as equity products, with stable value products and money market products at the lower end and non-U.S. dollar denominated bond products at the high end. As a result, our revenues are dependent on the value and composition of the assets under our management, all of which are subject to substantial fluctuation due to many factors, including:. • Investor Mobility. Our investors generally may withdraw their funds at any time, without advance notice and with little to no significant penalty.. • General Market Declines. A downturn in stock or bond prices would cause the value of assets under our management to decrease, and may also cause investors to withdraw their investments, thereby further decreasing the level of assets under our management.. • Investment Performance. If the investment performance of our managed investment portfolios is less than that of our competitors or applicable third-party benchmarks, we could lose existing and potential customers and suffer a decrease in assets under management. Institutional investors in particular consider changing investment advisers based upon poor relative investment performance. Individual investors in contrast are more likely to react to poor absolute investment performance. Prolonged periods of strong relative investment performance may result in capacity constraints within certain strategies, which in turn may negatively impact our ability to achieve strong investment results in subsequent periods.. Page  11. Table of Contents. • Investing Trends. Changes in investing trends and, in particular, investor preference for passive or alternative investment products, retirement savings trends, including the prevalence of defined contribution retirement plans and target date retirement products, may reduce interest in our products and may alter our mix of assets under management.. • Interest Rate Changes. Investor interest in and the valuation of our fixed income investment funds and portfolios are affected by changes in interest rates.. • International Exposure. Our managed investment portfolios may have significant investments in international markets that are subject to risk of loss from political or diplomatic developments, government policies, civil unrest, currency fluctuations, and changes in legislation related to foreign ownership. International markets, particularly emerging markets, which are often smaller, may not have the liquidity of established markets, may lack established regulations, and may experience significantly more volatility than established markets.. A decrease in the value of assets under our management, or an adverse change in their composition, could have a material adverse effect on our investment advisory fees and revenues. For any period in which revenues decline, net income and operating margins will likely decline by a greater proportion because certain expenses will be fixed over that finite period and may not decrease in proportion to the decrease in revenues.. The performance of our money market products are impacted by the interest rate environment.. Our money market products' performance or yield is dependent on the income earned from the underlying securities exceeding the operating costs of the product. When interest rates are very low, the operating costs of the products will become a greater portion of its net income, thereby reducing the yield to very low levels. The interest rate environment experienced from the second half of 2009 through 2016 led us to voluntarily waive our advisory and other fees earned on our money market products in order to maintain yields at or above 0% for fund investors. The actual amount of fees we waived was dependent on a number of variables including, among others, changes in the net assets held by our money market products, changes in market yields, changes in the expense levels of the products, and our willingness to voluntarily continue such fee waivers. These waivers reduced our advisory fee income and net income. If a similar interest rate environment was to reocur, there is no guarantee that we would voluntarily waive fees again. For further discussion of the fees we waived in 2016, and the net cash flows of our money market products, please see Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7, of this Form 10-K.. A significant majority of our revenues are based on contracts with the Price funds that are subject to termination without cause and on short notice.. We provide investment advisory, distribution, and other administrative services to the Price Funds under various agreements. Investment advisory services are provided to each Price Fund under individual investment management agreements. The Board of each Price Fund must annually approve the terms of the investment management and service agreements and can terminate the agreement upon 60-days' notice. If a Price Fund seeks to lower the fees that we receive or terminate its contract with us, we would experience a decline in fees earned from the Price Funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income.. We operate in an intensely competitive industry. Competitive pressures may result in a loss of customers and their assets or compel us to reduce the fees we charge to clients, thereby reducing our revenues and net income.. We are subject to competition in all aspects of our business from other financial institutions. Many of these financial institutions have substantially greater resources than we do and may offer a broader range of financial products across more markets. Some competitors operate in a different regulatory environment than we do which may give them certain competitive advantages in the investment products and portfolio structures that they offer. We compete with other providers of investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment products offered, investment performance, fees and related expenses, and the scope and quality of investment advice and other client services. Some institutions have proprietary products and distribution channels that make it more difficult for us to compete with them. Most of our investment products are available without sales or redemption fees, which means that investors may be more willing to transfer assets to competing products.. The market environment in recent years has led investors to increasingly favor lower fee passive products. As a result, investment advisors that emphasize passive products have gained and may continue to gain market share from active managers like us. While we cannot predict how much market share these competitors will gain, we believe there will always be demand for good active management.. Page  12. Table of Contents. If current or potential customers decide to move their assets to one of our competitors, we could face a significant decline in market share, assets under management, revenues, and net income. In the event that we decide to reduce the fees we charge for investment advisory services in response to competitive pressures, which we have done selectively in the past, revenues and operating margins could be adversely impacted.. Our success depends on our key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services.. Our success depends on our highly skilled personnel, including our portfolio managers, investment analysts, sales and client relationship personnel, and corporate officers, many of whom have specialized expertise and extensive experience in our industry. Strong financial services professionals are in demand, and we face significant competition for highly qualified employees. Our U.S.-based associates do not have employments contracts, while our associates outside the U.S. have employment contracts where basic employment terms are confirmed in writing. Generally our associates can terminate their employment with us at any time. We cannot assure that we will be able to retain or replace key personnel. Due to the global nature of our investment advisory business, our key personnel may have reasons to travel to regions susceptible to higher risk of civil unrest, organized crime or terrorism and we may be unable to ensure the safety of personnel traveling to these regions. We have near- and long-term succession planning processes, including programs to develop our future leaders, which are intended to address future talent needs and minimize the impact of losing key talent. However, in order to retain or replace our key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation, which would decrease net income. The loss of key personnel could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to retain and attract new employees and investors. Losses of assets from our client investors would decrease our revenues and net income, possibly materially.. Our operations are complex and a failure to perform operational processes could have an adverse effect on our reputation and decrease our revenues.. We provide investment management, product administration, product recordkeeping, and tax reporting services to our clients. In certain cases, we rely on third-party vendors in the execution and delivery of these services.  There can be no assurance that these vendors will properly perform these processes or that there will not be interruptions in services from these third parties.. Failure to properly execute or oversee these services could subject us to regulatory sanctions, fines, penalties, or litigation. In some cases, we employ quantitative models to support investment decisions and processes, including those related to risk assessment, portfolio management, and activities. Undetected errors in the design, function or underlying assumptions used in these could lead to an adverse impact to T. Rowe Price's business and reputation.. New investment products we introduce could increase the risk that our existing systems may not be adequate to control the risks introduced by such new investment products. In addition, our information systems and technology platforms might not be able to accommodate our continued growth, and the cost of maintaining such systems might increase from its current level. Materialization of these risks could disrupt our operations or result in financial exposure, regulatory inquiry or reputational damage.. Any damage to our reputation could harm our business and lead to a loss of revenues and net income.. We have spent many years developing our reputation for integrity, strong investment performance, and superior client service. Our brand is a valuable intangible asset, but it is vulnerable to a variety of threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or even impossible to remediate. Regulatory inquiries and rumors can tarnish or substantially damage our reputation, even if those inquiries are satisfactorily addressed. Additionally, we are subject to the risk that our employees or third parties acting on our behalf may circumvent controls or act in a manner inconsistent with our policies and procedures. Real or perceived conflicts between our clients' interests and our own, as well as any fraudulent activity or other exposure of client assets or information, may impair our reputation and subject us to litigation or regulatory action. Any damage to our brand could impede our ability to attract and retain customers and key personnel, and reduce the amount of assets under our management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income.. Our expenses are subject to significant fluctuations that could materially decrease net income.. Our operating results are dependent on the level of our expenses, which can vary significantly for many reasons, including:. • expenses incurred in connection with our multi-year strategic plan to strengthen our long-term competitive position;. Page  13. Table of Contents. • variations in the level of total compensation expense due to, among other things, bonuses, stock-based awards, changes in employee benefit costs due to regulatory or plan design changes, changes in our employee count and mix, competitive factors, market performance, and inflation;. • changes in the level of our advertising and promotion expenses, including the costs of expanding investment advisory services to investors outside of the U.S. and further penetrating U.S. distribution channels;. • expenses and capital costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure, such as technology assets, depreciation, amortization, and research and development;. • changes in the costs incurred for third-party vendors that perform certain administrative and operating services;. • a future impairment of investments recognized in our consolidated balance sheet;. • a future impairment of goodwill that is recognized in our consolidated balance sheet;. • unanticipated material fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates applicable to the costs of our operations abroad;. • unanticipated costs incurred to protect investor accounts and client goodwill; and. • disruptions of third-party services such as communications, power, and mutual fund transfer agent, investment management, trading, and accounting systems.. Under our agreements with the Price funds, we charge the funds certain administrative fees and related expenses based upon contracted terms. If we fail to accurately estimate our underlying expense levels or are required to incur expenses relating to the mutual funds that are not otherwise paid by the funds, our operating results will be adversely affected. While we are under no obligation to provide financial support to any T. Rowe Price investment products, any financial support provided would reduce capital available for other purposes and may have an adverse effect on revenues and net income.. Amendments to Tax Laws may impact the marketability of the products and services we offer our clients or the financial position of the company.. We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We cannot predict future changes in the tax regulations to which we are subject, and they could have a material impact on our liability or result in increased costs of our tax compliance efforts. Additionally, changes in the status of tax deferred investment options, including retirement plans, tax-free municipal bonds, the capital gains and corporate dividend tax rates, and other individual and corporate tax rates could cause investors to view certain investment products less favorably and reduce investor demand for products and services we offer, which could have an adverse effect on our assets under management and revenues.. On December 22, 2017, a comprehensive U.S. tax reform bill originally known as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" (\"Tax Reform\") was enacted into law. We are required to recognize the effect of Tax Reform in our 2017 financial statements, even though the effective date of the law for most provisions is January 1, 2018. We continue to evaluate the impact of Tax Reform and expect new regulations to be issued to address certain uncertainties in the application of the law. This might result in changes to our estimates and expectations given our inability to predict the impact of future regulations and other guidance.. Examinations and audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods.. Based on the global nature of our business, from time to time we are subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes (and, in certain cases, interest, fines, or penalties). We have a process to evaluate whether to record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. We adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, however, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our estimates.. We have contracted with third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our investment products in the U.S. and abroad and such relationships may not be available or profitable to us in the future.. These contracted third-party intermediaries generally offer their clients various investment products in addition to, and in competition with, our investment products, and have no contractual obligation to encourage investment in our products. It would be difficult for us to acquire or retain the management of those assets without the assistance of the intermediaries, and we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain an adequate number of investment product offerings and successful distribution relationships. In addition, some investors rely on third-party financial planners, registered investment advisers, and. Page  14. Table of Contents. other consultants or financial professionals to advise them on the choice of investment adviser and investment product. These professionals and consultants can favor a competing investment product as better meeting their particular client's needs. We cannot assure that our investment products will be among their recommended choices in the future. Further, their recommendations can change over time and we could lose their recommendation and their clients' assets under our management. Mergers, acquisitions, and other ownership or management changes could also adversely impact our relationships with these third-party intermediaries. The presence of any of the adverse conditions discussed above would reduce revenues and net income, possibly by material amounts.. Natural disasters and other unpredictable events could adversely affect our operations.. Armed conflicts, terrorist attacks, cyber-attacks, power failures, and natural disasters could adversely affect our revenues, expenses, and net income by:. • decreasing investment valuations in, and returns on, the investment portfolios that we manage,. • causing disruptions in national or global economies that decrease investor confidence and make investment products generally less attractive,. • incapacitating or inflicting losses of lives among our employees,. • interrupting our business operations or those of critical service providers,. • triggering technology delays or failures, and. • requiring substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses to remediate damage, replace our facilities, and restore our operations.. A significant portion of our business operations are concentrated in the Baltimore, Maryland region and in London, England. We have developed various backup systems and contingency plans but we cannot be assured that they will be adequate in all circumstances that could arise, or that material interruptions and disruptions will not occur. We also rely to varying degrees on outside vendors for service delivery in addition to technology and disaster contingency support, and we cannot be assured that these vendors will be able to perform in an adequate and timely manner. If we lose the availability of any associates, or if we are unable to respond adequately to such an event in a timely manner, we may be unable to timely resume our business operations, which could lead to a tarnished reputation and loss of customers that results in a decrease in assets under management, lower revenues, and materially reduced net income.. Our investment income and asset levels may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in our investment portfolio.. We currently have a substantial investment portfolio. All of these investments are subject to investment market risk and our non-operating investment income could be adversely affected by the realization of losses upon the disposition of our investments or the recognition of significant other-than-temporary impairments in the case of our available-for-sale portfolio and the recognition of unrealized losses related to T. Rowe Price products that are consolidated, held as trading or accounted for under the equity method. In addition, related investment income has fluctuated significantly over the years depending upon the performance of our corporate investments, including the impact of market conditions and interest rates, and the size of our corporate money market and longer-term mutual fund holdings. Fluctuations in other investment income are expected to occur in the future.. We may review and pursue acquisition and venture opportunities in order to maintain or enhance our competitive position.. Any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, including additional demands on our staff; unanticipated problems regarding integration of investor account and investment security recordkeeping, additional or new regulatory requirements, operating facilities and technologies, and new employees; adverse effects in the event acquired intangible assets or goodwill become impaired; and the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by us prior to closing a transaction.. We own a 26% investment in UTI Asset Management Company Ltd (UTI), an Indian asset management company, and we may consider non-controlling minority investments in other entities in the future. We may not realize future returns from such investments or any collaborative activities that may develop in the future.. Page  15. Table of Contents. We are exposed to a number of risks arising from our international operations.. We operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the U.S. and have an equity investment in UTI. Our international operations require us to comply with the legal and regulatory requirements of various foreign jurisdictions and expose us to the political consequences of operating in foreign jurisdictions. Our foreign business operations are also subject to the following risks:. • difficulty in managing, operating, and marketing our international operations;. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates which may result in substantial negative effects on assets under our management, revenues, expenses, and assets in our U.S. dollar based financial statements; and. • significant adverse changes in international legal and regulatory environments.. LEGAL AND REGULATORY RISKS.. Compliance within a complex regulatory environment imposes significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and non-compliance could result in fines and penalties.. If we are unable to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to criminal and civil liability, the suspension of our employees, fines, penalties, sanctions, injunctive relief, exclusion from certain markets, or temporary or permanent loss of licenses or registrations necessary to conduct our business. A regulatory proceeding, even if it does not result in a finding of wrongdoing or sanctions, could consume substantial expenditures of time and capital. Any regulatory investigation and any failure to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations could severely damage our reputation, adversely affect our ability to conduct business, and decrease revenue and net income.. Legal and regulatory developments in the mutual fund and investment advisory industry could increase our regulatory burden, impose significant financial and strategic costs on our business, and cause a loss of, or impact the servicing of, our clients and fund shareholders.. Our regulatory environment is frequently altered by new regulations and by revisions to, and evolving interpretations of, existing regulations. New regulations present areas of uncertainty susceptible to alternative interpretations; regulators and prospective litigants may not agree with reasoned interpretations we adopt. Future changes could require us to modify or curtail our investment offerings and business operations, or impact our expenses and profitability. Additionally, some regulations may not directly apply to our business but may impact the capital markets, service providers or have other indirect effects on our ability to provide services to our clients.. Potential impacts of current or proposed legal or regulatory requirements include, without limitation, the following:. • As part of the debate in Washington, D.C. and in state legislatures, there has been increasing focus on the framework of the U.S. retirement system. We could experience adverse business impacts if legislative and regulatory changes limit retirement plans to certain products and services, or favor certain investment vehicles, that we do not offer or are not core to our business.. • There remains uncertainty about the U.S. Department of Labor's (DOL) final fiduciary rule. Further, in the wake of the DOL rules, there has been substantial regulatory and legislative activity at federal and state levels regarding standards of care for financial services firms, related to both retirement and taxable accounts. The ultimate action taken by the DOL, SEC or other applicable regulatory or legislative body may impact our business activities and increase our costs.. • The Federal Reserve Board has adopted final regulations related to non-bank Systemically Important Financial Institutions (SIFIs), and other jurisdictions are contemplating similar regulation. It has been suggested that large mutual funds, particularly money market funds, should be designated as SIFIs. We do not believe that mutual funds should be deemed SIFIs. Further, we do not believe SIFI designation was intended for traditional asset management businesses. However, if any T. Rowe Price fund or T. Rowe Price affiliate is deemed a SIFI, increased regulatory oversight would apply, which may include enhanced capital, liquidity, leverage, stress testing, resolution planning, and risk management requirements.. • The Commodity Futures Trading Commission has adopted certain amendments to its rules that would limit the ability of T. Rowe Price investment products to use commodities, futures, swaps, and other derivatives without additional registration. If our use of these products on behalf of client accounts increases so as to require registration, we would be subject to additional regulatory requirements and costs associated with registration.. Page  16. Table of Contents. • There has been increased global regulatory focus on the manner in which intermediaries are paid for distribution of mutual funds. Changes to long-standing market practices related to fees or enhanced disclosure requirements may negatively impact sales of mutual funds by intermediaries, especially if such requirements are not applied to other investment products.. • We remain subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations related to data privacy and protection of data we maintain concerning our customers and employees. These requirements continue to evolve. For example, the European Union has adopted changes, effective in May 2018, which will, among other things, significantly increase the potential penalties for non-compliance.. • Global regulations on over the counter derivatives are evolving, including new and proposed regulations under The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and European Market Infrastructure Regulation relating to central clearing counterparties, trade reporting, and repositories. In addition, the SEC has adopted new regulations that will require mutual funds to adopt liquidity risk management programs with specific requirements for measuring and reporting the liquidity of fund holdings. It also has proposed regulations detailing new exposure limits and asset coverage requirements for investments in derivatives, as well as adopting derivatives risk management programs. There remains uncertainty related to various requirements under these regulations and the exact manner in which they will impact current trading strategies for our clients.. • The revised Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID II Directive) and Regulation (MiFIR) (together \"MiFID II\") applied across the European Union (\"EU\") and member states of the European Economic Area beginning on January 3, 2018. Implementation of MiFID II has significantly impacted both the structure and operation of EU financial markets. Some of the main changes introduced under MiFID II include applying enhanced disclosure requirements, enhancing conduct of business and governance requirements, broadening the scope of pre and post trade transparency, increasing transaction reporting requirements, transforming the relationship between client commissions and research, and further regulation of trading venues. Although compliance with MiFID II will increase our costs, as we prepared for this by deciding in 2017 that we would pay for third-party investment research used by our UK-based investment manager, T. Rowe Price International Ltd, beginning in 2018.. We cannot predict the nature of future changes to the legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business, nor the extent of the impacts that will result from current or future proposals. However, any such changes are likely to increase the costs of compliance and the complexity of our operations. They may also result in changes to our product or service offerings. The changing regulatory landscape may also impact a number of our service providers and, to the extent such providers alter their services or increase their fees, it may impact our expenses or those of the products we offer.. We may become involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that may not be covered by insurance.. We are subject to regulatory and governmental inquiries and civil litigation. An adverse outcome of any such proceeding could involve substantial financial penalties. From time to time, various claims against us arise in the ordinary course of business, including employment-related claims. There also has been an increase in litigation and in regulatory investigations in the financial services industry in recent years, including customer claims, class action suits, and government actions alleging substantial monetary damages and penalties.. We carry insurance in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate. We cannot be assured that our insurance will cover every liability and loss to which we may be exposed, or that our insurance policies will continue to be available at acceptable terms and fees. Certain insurance coverage may not be available or may be prohibitively expensive in future periods. As our insurance policies come up for renewal, we may need to assume higher deductibles or co-insurance liabilities, or pay higher premiums, which would increase our expenses and reduce our net income.. In 2016, we paid $166.2 million to compensate certain T. Rowe Price mutual funds, trusts, separately managed accounts, and subadvised clients (collectively, \"Clients\") for the denial of their appraisal rights by the Delaware Chancery Court (Court) in connection with the 2013 leveraged buyout of Dell, Inc. (Dell). The Court ruled on May 11, 2016, that the Clients could not pursue an appraisal of any shares they held that were voted in favor of the Dell merger. The appraisal statute governing the transaction required the record holder to vote against or abstain from voting on the transaction in order to assert appraisal rights. After previously voting against prior transaction proposals, the voting instructions submitted on behalf of the Clients in connection with voting on the final proposed transaction were incorrectly submitted in favor of the transaction. On May 31, 2016, the Court determined that the fair value of Dell at the time of the merger was $17.62 per share, as opposed to the $13.75 price offered in the transaction. As a result, any shareholder perfecting appraisal rights is entitled to a payment at $17.62 per share plus statutory interest from the date the Dell transaction closed subject to possible appeal of the Court's decision. The. Page  17. Table of Contents. compensation to Clients was intended to make them whole for the voting discrepancy that resulted in the denial of their appraisal rights. We recovered insurance proceeds totaling $150.0 million related to this matter.. In accordance with the compensation payment, the Clients agreed that in the event the findings made by the Court regarding the fair value of Dell or the amount of interest to be applied were modified by a final, non-appealable judgment, T. Rowe Price and the Clients would make an appropriate adjustment between themselves, calculated in a manner that is consistent with the methodology used to compensate Clients. In December 2016, several parties, including Dell and the successful appraisal petitioners, filed appeals to the Delaware Supreme Court to challenge the Court's valuation ruling.. On December 14, 2017, the Delaware Supreme Court reversed the judgment and remanded the case for further proceedings.  It is not clear how the Court will eventually rule and what the ultimate valuation will be, although the Supreme Court's opinion suggests that the deal price of $13.75 may be the ultimate outcome. Once the Court enters a final, non-appealable judgment, Clients will be required to repay any overpayment using the methodology used to calculate the original payment. We estimate that the first $15.2 million reclaimed would be paid back to T. Rowe Price Group. We would then be required to repay any additional reclaimed funds to our insurers.. Net capital requirements may impede the business operations of our subsidiaries.. Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements imposed by various federal, state, and foreign authorities. Each of our subsidiaries' net capital meets or exceeds all current minimum requirements; however, a significant change in the required net capital, an operating loss, or an extraordinary charge against net capital could adversely affect the ability of our subsidiaries to expand or maintain their operations if we were unable to make additional investments in them.. United Kingdom exit from European Union.. We have a significant locally authorized and regulated presence in the United Kingdom (\"UK\") to support our global investment management business. The ultimate impact of the UK exit (\"Brexit\") from the European Union (\"EU\"), on our business operations in the UK and Europe could vary depending on the details of the separation agreement. We are preparing for multiple scenarios, and remain committed to our clients, associates and business expansion across the region.. TECHNOLOGY RISKS.. We require specialized technology to operate our business and would be adversely affected if we fail to maintain adequate infrastructure to conduct or expand our operations or if our technology became inoperative or obsolete.. We depend on highly specialized and, in many cases, proprietary or third-party licensed technology to support our business functions, including among others:. • securities analysis,. • securities trading,. • portfolio management,. • customer service,. • accounting and internal financial reporting processes and controls, and. • regulatory compliance and reporting.. All of our technology systems, including those provided by vendors, are vulnerable to disability or failures due to cyber-attacks such as hacking or viruses, natural disasters, power failures, acts of war or terrorism, sabotage, and other causes. A suspension or termination of vendor-provided software licenses or related support, upgrades, and maintenance could cause system delays or interruption. Although we have robust business and disaster recovery plans, if our technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could lead to a loss of customers and could harm our reputation. A technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to disciplinary action and liability to our customers.. In addition, our continued success depends on our ability to effectively integrate operations across many countries, and to adopt new or adapt existing technologies to meet client, industry, and regulatory demands. We might be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain competitive infrastructure. If we are unable to upgrade our infrastructure in a timely fashion,. Page  18. Table of Contents. we might lose customers and fail to maintain regulatory compliance, which could affect our results of operations and severely damage our reputation.. We could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard sensitive and confidential information.. As part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients, as well as, proprietary information relating to our business operations. We maintain a system of internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that fraudulent activity, including misappropriation of assets, fraudulent financial reporting, and unauthorized access to sensitive or confidential data is either prevented or detected in a timely manner. We also leverage cloud-based solutions for the transmission and storage of this information. Our systems, or those of third-party service providers we may use to maintain and transmit such information, could be victimized by unauthorized users or corrupted by computer viruses or other malicious software code. Additionally, authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. Such disclosure could, among other things:. • seriously damage our reputation,. • allow competitors access to our proprietary business information,. • subject us to liability for a failure to safeguard client data,. • result in the termination of contracts by our existing customers,. • subject us to regulatory action, and. • require significant capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach.. Page  19. Table of Contents"
