[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. There are many risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks described below and elsewhere in this report, particularly found in \"Forward - Looking and Cautionary Statements.\" The following is not intended to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties, as it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. Unknown or unidentified additional risks and uncertainties could also adversely affect our business. In addition, the risks described below are not listed in order of the likelihood that the risk might occur or the severity of the impact if the risk should occur.. Risks Associated with our Business Strategy. As noted on page 5, our overall business strategy is focused on several initiatives. If we cannot successfully execute our business strategy, our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted. There are numerous risks associated with this strategy including, but not limited to, the following:. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to meet the changing preferences of our customers and manage merchandise lead times.. We believe that men's attire is characterized by infrequent and more predictable fashion changes when compared to other apparel sectors. Our success, however, is dependent in part upon our ability to gauge the tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. As some of our businesses are seasonal, we must purchase and carry a significant amount of inventory prior to peak selling seasons.. We issue purchase orders for the purchase and manufacture of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. As a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts. In addition, lead times for many of our purchases are lengthy, which may make it more difficult for us to respond quickly to new or changing merchandise trends or consumer acceptance of our products. As a result, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if we fail to meet the changing preferences of our customers and manage merchandise lead times appropriately.. We believe our overall product mix makes our business less vulnerable to changes in merchandise trends than many fashion - forward and specialty apparel retailers; however, our sales and profitability depend upon our continued ability to effectively manage a variety of competitive challenges, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tanticipating and quickly responding to changing trends and consumer demands including casualization of workplace attire and a consumer shift to purchasing suits for special occasions instead of renting product;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to consumers in several diverse market segments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdeveloping innovative, high - quality new products and/or product and brand extensions in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers of varying age groups and tastes, including custom clothing;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcompetitively pricing our products and providing superior service and value to our customers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcountering the promotional or other pricing activities of our competitors; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproviding strong and effective marketing support.. Increased competition or our failure to meet these competitive challenges could result in price reductions, increased marketing expenditures and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Certain of our strategies, including product innovations and expanding our exclusive offerings, may present greater risks.. We are continuously assessing opportunities to improve store productivity and develop new store concepts and complementary products and services related to our core business, including product innovations and exclusive offerings. We may expend both capital and personnel resources on such business opportunities which may or may not be successful. Additionally, any new concept is subject to certain risks, including customer acceptance, competition, product differentiation and the ability to obtain suitable sites. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and grow new concepts, including product innovations and exclusive offerings to a point where they will become profitable or generate positive cash flow.. 11. Table of Contents. Our investments in omni - channel initiatives may not deliver the results we anticipate.. One of our strategic priorities is to further develop an omni - channel shopping experience for our customers through the integration of our store and digital shopping channels. We continue to explore additional ways to enhance our omni - channel shopping experience, including further digital integration and customer personalization. These initiatives involve significant investments in information technology systems. If the implementation of our omni - channel initiatives is not successful, or we do not realize the return on our omni - channel investments that we anticipate, our operating results would be adversely affected.. We face challenges in managing our store fleet, including limited new store growth potential.. Our growth is dependent, in large part, on our ability to successfully manage our store fleet, including new stores and expansion or remodeling of existing stores and closure of underperforming stores.  We expect to continue opening new stores to increase our sales volume and profitability; however, we believe that our ability to increase the number of new stores in the U.S. and Canada may be limited. Therefore, we may not be able to achieve the same rate of growth that we have historically.. In addition, our ability to manage our store fleet will depend on our ability to obtain suitable locations, negotiate acceptable lease terms, hire qualified personnel and open and operate new stores on a timely and profitable basis. Further, the results achieved by our existing stores may not be indicative of the performance or market acceptance of stores in other locations and the opening of new stores in existing markets may adversely affect sales and/or profitability of established stores in those same markets.. Any future acquisitions or divestitures could result in operating difficulties and could harm our operating results.. From time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions or divestitures that would further our strategic objectives.  With respect to acquisitions, we will be subject to a variety of risks, including risks associated with an ability to integrate acquired assets, systems or operations into our existing operations, diversion of management's attention from core operational matters, higher costs, or unexpected difficulties or problems with acquired assets or entities, outdated or incompatible technologies, labor difficulties or an inability to realize anticipated synergies and efficiencies, whether within anticipated time frames or at all.. With respect to potential divestitures, we will also be subject to a variety of risks, including risks associated with difficulty in finding acquirers or alternative exit strategies on terms that are favorable to us, liabilities for activities of the divested business before the transaction, including litigation claims and disputes, the need to provide transition services to a divested business which may result in the diversion of management resources and focus and potential impairment charges.. If one or more of these risks are realized, it could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Associated with General Economic Conditions. Numerous economic conditions, all of which are outside of our control, could negatively affect the level of consumer spending on the merchandise that we offer. If these economic conditions persist for a sustained period, our consolidated financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. These economic conditions include, but are not limited to, the following:. Our business is particularly sensitive to economic conditions and consumer confidence.. Our performance is subject to changes in U.S., Canadian, UK and global economic and political conditions, particularly their impact on the level of consumer discretionary spending and consumer confidence. Some of the factors that may influence consumer spending include high levels of unemployment, increases in the cost of non-discretionary consumer goods, increases in consumer debt levels and applicable interest rates, uncertainties regarding future economic prospects or a decline in consumer confidence or credit availability. Consumer confidence may also be adversely affected by national and international security concerns such as war, terrorism, public health events or natural disasters (or the threat of any of these).  In addition, our reliance on certain external partners leaves us subject to certain risks should one or more of these external partners encounter financial distress or become insolvent.. During an actual or perceived economic downturn, fewer customers may shop with us and those who do shop may limit the amounts of their purchases. As a result, we could be required to take significant markdowns and/or increase our marketing and promotional expenses in response to the lower than anticipated levels of demand for our products. In addition, promotional and/or prolonged periods of deep discount pricing by our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business. Also, as a result of adverse market, political or economic conditions, customers may delay or postpone indefinitely roll - outs of new corporate wear programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our corporate apparel segment.. 12. Table of Contents. We have experienced fluctuations in our sales and expect our sales to fluctuate in the future.. Our success over the long-term depends in large part on our ability to increase sales.  For example, if sales at Men's Wearhouse were to decrease, the effect on our consolidated financial results would be more significant than if sales were to decrease at any of our other brands. We believe that a variety of factors affect our sales and comparable sales results including, but not limited to, consumer confidence and the level of consumer discretionary spending, changes in economic conditions and consumer disposable income, spending patterns and debt levels, consumer credit availability, weather conditions, the timing of certain holiday seasons, the number and timing of new store openings, changes in the popularity of a retail center, the timing and level of promotional pricing or markdowns, store closings, refreshes, relocations and remodels, changes in fashion trends (including casualization of workplace attire and custom clothing) and our merchandise mix or other competitive factors. Comparable sales fluctuations may impact our ability to leverage our fixed direct expenses, including store rent and store asset depreciation, which may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. Some of our businesses are seasonal.. Our sales and net earnings are subject to seasonal fluctuations and may vary by brand. Our rental product revenues are heavily concentrated in the second and third quarters (prom and wedding season) while the fourth quarter is the seasonal low point.  With respect to corporate apparel sales and operating results, seasonal fluctuations are not significant but the acquisition of new customers or existing customer decisions to rebrand or revise their corporate wear programs can cause significant variations in period results. Because of these fluctuations, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full year.. Economic conditions and regulatory changes leading up to and following the United Kingdom's likely exit from the European Union could have a material adverse effect on our corporate apparel's business and results of operations.. In June 2016, the UK held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union (the \"E.U.\"), commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\"  Negotiations are ongoing to determine the future terms of the UK's relationship with the E.U.. The announcement of Brexit adversely impacted global markets, including currencies, and resulted in a sharp decline in the value of the British pound, as compared to the U.S. dollar and other currencies. Volatility in exchange rates is expected to continue as the UK negotiates its exit from the European Union. A weaker British pound compared to the U.S. dollar during a reporting period causes local currency results of our UK operations to be translated into fewer U.S. dollars. In fiscal 2017, net sales of our UK operations constituted approximately 6% of our consolidated net sales.. Future adverse consequences arising from Brexit may include economic uncertainty, continued volatility in current exchange rates, potential changes to duties and tariffs and legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the UK determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate. Any of these effects of Brexit, among others, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Associated With Our Sourcing and Distribution Strategies. Our sourcing and distribution strategies are subject to numerous risks that could materially adversely impact our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following:. The loss of, or disruption in, our distribution centers could result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores.. We rely on our distribution centers to manage the receipt, storage, sorting, packing and distribution of our merchandise.  As such, we depend on the overall effective management of our distribution center operations including adherence to shipping schedules and proper functioning of our information technology and inventory control systems.  Events, such as disruptions in operations due to fire or other catastrophic events, government shutdowns, delays in customs clearances, software malfunctions, employee matters or shipping problems, may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores or directly to customers. For example, given our proximity to the Texas gulf coast, it is possible that a hurricane or tropical storm could damage the Houston, Texas distribution center, result in extended power outages or flood roadways into and around the distribution center, any of which would disrupt or delay deliveries to the Houston distribution center and to our stores.. Although we have disaster recovery plans and maintain business interruption and property insurance, there can be no assurance that these plans will work as intended, that our insurance will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be paid timely to us, in the event any of our distribution centers are damaged or shut down for any reason, or if we incur higher costs and longer lead times in connection with a disruption at one or more of our distribution centers.. 13. Table of Contents. Our business is global in scope and can be impacted by factors beyond our control.. As a result of our international operations and our sourcing of merchandise and rental product from manufacturers located outside of the U.S., we face the possibility of greater losses from a number of risks inherent in doing business in international markets and from a number of factors which are beyond our control. Such factors that could harm our financial condition and results of operations include, among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpolitical instability, civil strife or insurrection, or acts of terrorism, which disrupt trade with the countries where we operate or in which our contractors, suppliers or customers are located;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trecessions in foreign economies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinfrastructure deficiencies, logistic and other challenges in managing our foreign operations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timposition of new legislation or rules relating to imports that may limit the quantity of goods which may be imported into the U.S. from certain countries or regions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tobligations associated with being an importer of record, including monitoring and complying with all corresponding legal requirements;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timposition of new or higher duties, taxes, tariffs, quotas or other charges on imports;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdelays in shipping due to port security considerations, labor disputes or other restrictions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tissues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards which may result in adverse publicity;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmigration of our manufacturers, which can affect where our raw materials and/or products are or will be produced;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvolatile global economic, market or political environments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvolatile shipping availability, fuel supplies and related costs;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the local currencies used by our manufacturers; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreased difficulty in protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions.. In addition, if we were unexpectedly required to change manufacturers or if a manufacturer were unable to supply acceptable merchandise in sufficient quantities on acceptable terms, particularly as it relates to custom clothing, we could experience a disruption in the supply of merchandise or may not be able to fulfill certain customer orders.. Failure of manufacturers to adhere to applicable laws and regulations including our internal policy requirements could harm our business.. We require our third-party manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and our internal policy requirements. Our business could be adversely affected if our suppliers do not comply with applicable legal requirements, our supplier policies and practices generally acceptable in the U.S. regarding social and ethical matters and acceptable labor and sourcing practices (collectively, \"Supplier Requirements\").. The violation of our Supplier Requirements by any of our suppliers could disrupt our supply chain. In addition, any such violation could damage our reputation, which may result in decreased customer traffic to our stores, websites and call center. In the event of any violations, we may decide that it is necessary or desirable to seek alternative suppliers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business could be adversely affected by increased costs of the raw materials and other resources that are important to our business.. The raw materials used to manufacture our products are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high demand for fabrics, catastrophic events, weather conditions, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. In addition, our transportation and labor costs are subject to price volatility caused by the price of oil, supply of labor, labor disputes, governmental regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Increases in demand for, or the price of, raw materials, distribution services and labor, including federal and state minimum wage rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 14. Table of Contents. The increase in the costs of wool and other raw materials significant to the manufacturer of apparel and the costs of manufacturing could materially affect our results of operations to the extent they cannot be mitigated through price increases and relocation to lower cost sources of supply or other cost reductions. These increased costs could particularly impact our managed contract corporate apparel business which tends to have more long-term contractually committed customer sales arrangements with limited price flexibility.. Any significant interruption in raw materials could cause interruptions at our U.S. tailored clothing factory.. The principal raw material used by our U.S. tailored clothing factory is fabric. Most of the factory's supply arrangements are seasonal. The factory does not have any long - term agreements in place with its fabric suppliers; therefore, there can be no assurance that any of such suppliers will continue to do business with us in the future. If a particular mill were to experience a delay due to fire or natural disaster and become unable to meet the factory's supply needs, it could take a period of up to several months for us to arrange for and receive an alternate supply of such fabric. In addition, import and export delays caused, for example, by an extended strike at the port of entry, could prevent the factory from receiving fabric or other raw materials shipped by its suppliers. Therefore, there could be a negative effect on the ability of the factory to meet its production goals if there is an unexpected loss of a supplier of fabric or other raw materials or a long interruption in shipments from any fabric or other raw material supplier.. Labor union disputes could impact our business.. Should a labor dispute arise at any one of our union work sites, we could experience shortages in product to sell in our stores or other operational disruptions.  In addition, our corporate apparel business sells uniforms to companies with union workforces.  It is possible that our corporate apparel business could be adversely impacted if a labor dispute arises between a company we supply uniforms to and its union.. Risks Associated with Our Information Technology Systems. We rely on various information technology systems to manage our operations. Information technology systems are subject to numerous risks including unanticipated operating problems, system failures, rapid technological change, failure of the systems to operate as anticipated, reliance on third - party technologies, the lack of available expertise for legacy systems, network and software providers, computer viruses, telecommunication failures, data breaches, denial of service attacks, spamming, phishing attacks, and other similar disruptions, any of which could materially adversely impact our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks include, but are not limited to, the following:. If we are unable to operate information systems and implement new technologies effectively, our business could be disrupted or our sales or profitability could be reduced.. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and successfully implement new technologies, systems, controls and adequate disaster recovery systems. We also maintain multiple internet websites in the U.S. and Europe. In addition, we must protect the confidentiality of our and our customers' data. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business or subject us to liability and thereby harm our profitability.. We are subject to data security risks, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and consumer confidence in our security measures.. Cybersecurity incidents and data breaches, particularly in the retail industry, have been well publicized.  Like other retailers, we are subject to cybersecurity risks. Cybersecurity refers to the combination of technologies, processes, and procedures established to protect information technology systems and data from unauthorized access, use, manipulation, exfiltration, or damage.  As part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information as well as proprietary Company information, including credit card information, and information about our customers, our employees and other third parties.  As a result, like other retailers, our business may be targeted more than other businesses because third parties may focus on the amount and type of personal and business information that we maintain and transmit.. We are focused on safeguarding and protecting personal and business information, and we devote significant resources to maintain and regularly update our systems and processes including providing employee awareness training around cyber risks and security breaches.  However, while we have implemented measures reasonably designed to detect and prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our systems or our third - party service providers' systems may still be vulnerable to privacy and security incidents including attacks by unauthorized users, corruption by computer viruses or other malicious software code, emerging cybersecurity risks, inadvertent or intentional release of confidential or proprietary information, or other similar events.  The occurrence of any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss. 15. Table of Contents. or other unauthorized disclosure of information about us or our customers, whether by us or by one of our third - party service providers, could, among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcause damage to our reputation;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tallow competitors access to our proprietary business information;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsubject us to liability for a failure to safeguard customer data;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsubject us to financial and legal risks, including regulatory action or litigation;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timpact our ability to process credit card transactions; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire significant capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach.. Furthermore, the storage and transmission of such data is regulated at the international, federal, state and local levels. Privacy and information security laws and regulation changes, and compliance with those changes, may result in cost increases due to system changes and the development of new administrative processes.  For example, the E.U.'s General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which will become effective in May 2018, imposes significant new requirements on how we collect, process and transfer personal data with failure to meet GDPR requirements resulting in penalties of up to 4% of our worldwide revenue.  If we or our employees fail to comply with existing laws and regulations or experience a data security breach, our reputation could be damaged, possibly resulting in lost future business, and we could be subjected to fines, penalties, administrative orders and other legal risks as a result of a breach or non - compliance.. Other Risks Affecting Our Business. Our business is subject to numerous other risks that could materially adversely impact our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following:. We may be negatively impacted by competition.. Both the men's retail and the corporate apparel industries are highly competitive with numerous participants. We compete with traditional department stores, other specialty men's clothing stores, online retailers, online formalwear rental providers, off - price retailers, manufacturer - owned and independently - owned outlet stores, independently-owned formalwear rental stores and other corporate apparel providers, as well as their respective e-commerce channels. In addition, some of our primary competitors sell their products in stores that are located in the same shopping malls or retail centers as our stores, which results in competition for favorable site locations and lease terms in these shopping malls and retail centers. Increased competition or our failure to meet these competitive challenges could result in price reductions, increased marketing expenditures and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel.. Our success depends upon the personal efforts and abilities of our senior management team and other key personnel. Although we believe we have a strong management team with significant industry expertise, we face intense competition in hiring and retaining these personnel and the extended loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, our business is subject to employment laws and regulations, including minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, sick pay, paid time off and healthcare benefits.  The implementation of potential regulatory changes relating to these items, among other things, could result in increased labor costs to our business and negatively impact our operating results.. Also, our continued success and the achievement of our expansion goals are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified employees. If we are unable to retain and motivate our current personnel and attract talented new personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The occurrence of an event that impacts our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our brands.. Our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to our brands. Our reputation could be jeopardized if we fail to maintain high standards for merchandise quality and integrity and customer service. Any negative publicity about these types of concerns may reduce demand for our merchandise. Failure to comply with ethical, social, product, labor, health and safety or environmental standards could also jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions, including boycotts. Public perception about our company as a whole, our products or our stores, whether justified or not, could impair our reputation, involve us in litigation, damage our brand and have a material. 16. Table of Contents. adverse effect on our business. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls and provide accurate and timely financial statement information, or to prevent security breaches could also hurt our reputation. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, as well as require additional time and resources to rebuild our reputation.. War, acts of terrorism, public health crises, or weather catastrophes (whether or not caused by climate change) could have a material adverse effect on our business.. In the event of war, acts of terrorism or the threat of terrorist attacks, public health crises, or weather catastrophes (whether or not caused by climate change), consumer spending could significantly decrease for a sustained period. In addition, local authorities or shopping center management could close in response to any immediate security concern, public health concern or weather catastrophe such as hurricanes, earthquakes, or tornadoes. Similarly, war, acts of terrorism, threats of terrorist attacks, or a weather catastrophe could severely and adversely affect our offices, distribution centers, or our entire supply chain.. Fluctuations in exchange rates may cause us to experience currency exchange losses.. We are subject to exposure from fluctuations in multiple currency exchange rates including, without limitation, U.S. dollar/British pound (\"GBP\") exchange rates, U.S. dollar/Canadian dollar (\"CAD\") exchange rates and U.S. dollar/Euro exchange rates as a result of our direct sourcing programs and our operations in foreign countries.. Moores, our Canadian subsidiary, conducts most of its business in CAD but purchases a significant portion of its merchandise in U.S. dollars. Historically, the exchange rate between CAD and U.S. dollars has fluctuated. A decline in the value of the CAD as compared to the U.S. dollar may adversely impact our Canadian operations as the revenues and earnings of our Canadian operations will be reduced when they are translated to U.S. dollars. Also, the value of our Canadian net assets as expressed in U.S. dollars may decline. We utilize foreign currency hedging contracts related to our merchandise purchases to limit exposure to changes in U.S. dollar/CAD exchange rates; however, these hedging activities may not adequately protect our Canadian operations from exchange rate risk.. Our UK - based corporate apparel operations sell their products and conduct their business primarily in GBP but purchase most of their merchandise in U.S. dollars or Euros. Historically, the exchange rate between the GBP, Euro and U.S. dollar has fluctuated.  A decline in the value of the GBP as compared to the Euro or U.S. dollar may adversely impact our UK operating results as the cost of merchandise purchases will increase, particularly in relation to longer term customer contracts that have little or no pricing adjustment provisions, and the revenues and earnings of our UK operations will be reduced when they are translated to U.S. dollars. Also, the value of our UK net assets as expressed in U.S. dollars may decline. We utilize foreign currency hedging contracts as well as price renegotiations to limit exposure to some of this risk; however, these activities may not adequately protect our UK operations from exchange rate risk.. Compliance with ever-changing legal, regulatory and corporate governance requirements and standards for accounting could result in increased administrative expenses or litigation and could adversely impact our business, results of operations and reported financial results.. Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to help us comply with all applicable laws, regulations, accounting and reporting requirements, including those imposed by the Sarbanes - Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd - Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the Affordable Care Act, the payment card industry (PCI), the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and the NYSE. In addition, our business is subject to laws, rules and regulations promulgated by international, national, state and local authorities, including laws, rules and regulations relating to privacy, use of consumer information, credit cards and advertising. All of these laws, rules and regulations and their interpretation are subject to change and often their application may be unclear. As a result, from time to time, we are subject to inquiries, investigations, and/or litigation, including class action lawsuits, and administrative actions related to compliance with these laws, rules and regulations.. Shareholder activism, the current political environment, financial reform legislation and the current high level of government intervention and regulatory reform has led, and may continue to lead, to substantial new regulations and compliance obligations. Any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations or the enactment of any new legislation that affects employment and labor, trade, product safety, transportation and logistics, health care, privacy, or environmental issues, among other things, may increase the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance.. Failure to comply with the various laws and regulations, as well as changes in laws and regulations, could have an adverse impact on our reputation, financial condition or results of operations.. 17. Table of Contents. Changes in applicable tax regulations and resolutions of tax disputes could negatively affect our financial results.. We are subject to taxation in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. We record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which include reserves for estimates of probable settlements of foreign and domestic tax audits. At any one time, many tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. As a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as taxable events occur and exposures are evaluated. In addition, our effective tax rate in any given financial reporting period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings or losses by taxing jurisdictions or by changes to existing accounting rules or regulations.. For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Reform Act\") was enacted in December 2017, which significantly changes how the U.S. taxes corporations.  As a result, we made certain judgments in interpreting the provisions of the Act as well as significant estimates in calculations used in preparing our fiscal 2017 operating results. The U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the Tax Reform Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. Therefore, the ultimate impact of the Tax Reform Act on our results in future periods may change due to changes in interpretations and assumptions we have made, guidance that may be issued, and other actions that we may take as a result of the Tax Reform Act.. Changes to accounting standards and estimates could materially impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. Generally accepted accounting principles and the related authoritative guidance for many aspects of our business, including revenue recognition, inventories, goodwill and intangible assets, leases and income taxes, are complex, continually evolving and involve subjective judgments. For example, recently issued authoritative guidance for lease accounting will result in a significant increase in our long-term assets and liabilities given we have a considerable number of operating leases and may cause the perception that we are more highly leveraged. These and other future changes in accounting rules or changes in the underlying estimates, assumptions or judgments by our management could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. We could incur losses due to impairment on long - lived assets, goodwill and intangible assets.. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our long - lived assets for impairment whenever economic events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Identifiable intangible assets with an indefinite useful life, including goodwill, are not amortized but are evaluated annually for impairment. A more frequent evaluation is performed if events or circumstances indicate that impairment could have occurred. In fiscal 2015, we recorded $1.24 billion of goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges related to Jos. A. Bank. In the future, significant negative industry or general economic trends, disruptions to our business and unexpected significant changes or planned changes in our use of the assets may result in additional impairments to our goodwill, intangible assets and other long - lived assets. Any reduction in or impairment of the value of goodwill or intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings, which could have a material adverse impact on our reported results of operations and financial condition.. Our advertising, marketing and promotional activities have been the subject of review by state regulators and subject to lawsuits, specifically at Jos. A. Bank.. Jos. A. Bank has in the past been, and may from time to time in the future be, required to respond to inquiries from State Attorneys General related to its advertising practices.  These advertising practices have also been, and continue to be, the subject of class action litigation.  In addition, it is possible that the advertising, marketing and promotional activities of all our brands may be reviewed by state or other regulators or become the subject of litigation. Although we endeavor to monitor and comply with all applicable laws and regulations to ensure that all advertising, marketing and promotional activities comply with all applicable legal requirements, many of the applicable legal requirements involve subjective judgments. It is possible that any resolution we may reach with any governmental authority or the results of any litigation may materially impact our current or future planned marketing program and could have an adverse impact on our business.. We are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits, disputes, and claims, from time to time, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. As a multinational company, we are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits, disputes, and claims (\"Actions\") arising in the ordinary course of business.  Many of these Actions raise complex factual and legal issues and are subject to numerous uncertainties.  Actions are filed against us from time to time and include commercial, securities, intellectual property, customer, employment and data privacy claims, including class action lawsuits.  Current Actions are in various procedural stages and some are covered in whole or in part by insurance.  We cannot predict with assurance the outcome of any of the Actions brought against us and an adverse result in any Actions could have an adverse impact on our financial results.. 18. Table of Contents. Rights of our shareholders may be negatively affected if we issue any of the shares of preferred stock which our Board of Directors has authorized for issuance.. We have available for issuance 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.01 per share. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue any or all of this preferred stock, in one or more series, without any further action on the part of shareholders. The rights of our shareholders may be negatively affected if we issue a series of preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or distribution upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.. Risks Associated with Our Indebtedness. There are numerous risks associated with our indebtedness including, but not limited to, the following:. Our current level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the Credit Facilities or the indenture governing the Senior Notes.. In 2014, we entered into a $1.1 billion aggregate principal amount senior secured facility (the \"Term Loan Facility\").  In October 2017, we amended our then existing $500.0 million asset - based revolving facility in part to increase the principal amount available to $550.0 million and extend the maturity date to October 2022 (the amended \"ABL Facility\")  (the ABL Facility together with the Term Loan Facility, the \"Credit Facilities\"). In addition, in 2014, we issued $600.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 7.0% Senior Notes due 2022 (the \"Senior Notes\"). As of February 3, 2018, our total indebtedness is approximately $1.4 billion. In addition, we have up to $505.5 million of additional borrowing availability under the ABL Facility, excluding letters of credit totaling approximately $37.3 million issued and outstanding.. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaking it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Senior Notes;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non - strategic divestitures;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt than we do and who therefore may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our indebtedness prevents us from exploiting.. Despite our high indebtedness level, we will still be able to incur significant additional amounts of debt, which could exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Senior Notes contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and, under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries' existing debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase. In addition, the Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Senior Notes will not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness under those agreements.. 19. Table of Contents. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and fund our working capital and capital expenditures, and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness will depend upon our future operating performance and on our ability to generate cash flow in the future, which is subject to general economic, financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings, including borrowings under the ABL Facility, will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.\". If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investment and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to affect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, such alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. The Credit Facilities and the indenture that governs the Senior Notes contain restrictions on our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from any such disposition.. In addition, we rely on our subsidiaries to generate cash. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness, is dependent, to a certain extent, on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Each of our subsidiaries are distinct legal entities and they do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on the notes or to make funds available for that purpose (other than the subsidiary guarantors in connection with their guarantees) or other obligations in the form of loans, distributions or otherwise. Our subsidiaries may not generate sufficient cash from operations to enable us to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness or to fund our and our subsidiaries' other cash obligations.. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, the holders of the Senior Notes could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under the Credit Facilities could declare all outstanding amounts under such facilities due and payable and, with respect to the ABL Facility, terminate their commitments to loan money, and, in each case, foreclose against the assets securing the borrowings under the Credit Facilities, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness before maturity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including the Credit Facilities, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds to enable us to repay or refinance our debt obligations on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.. The agreements and instruments governing our debt impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility.. The Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Senior Notes contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that may limit our ability to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur additional indebtedness;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsell assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpay dividends or repurchase or redeem capital stock;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake certain investments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tissue capital stock of our subsidiaries;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur liens;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprepay, redeem or repurchase subordinated debt; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenter into certain types of transactions with our affiliates.. These covenants could have the effect of limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the markets in which we compete. In addition, the ABL Facility requires us to comply with a financial maintenance covenant under certain circumstances. Operating results below current levels or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in our being unable to comply with the financial covenants contained in the ABL Facility, if applicable. If we violate this covenant and are unable to obtain a waiver from our lenders, our debt under the ABL Facility would be in default and could be accelerated by our lenders. Because of cross - default provisions in the agreements and instruments governing our indebtedness, a default under one agreement or instrument could result in a default under, and the acceleration of, our other indebtedness. In addition, the lenders under the Credit Facilities could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness.. 20. Table of Contents. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If our debt is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions.. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase.. We are exposed to interest rate risk through our variable rate borrowings under the Credit Facilities. Borrowings under such facilities bear interest at a variable rate, based on a LIBOR rate, plus an applicable margin. Interest rates are currently at historically low levels but are expected to increase. As interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease.  As LIBOR is above the 1% LIBOR floor provision on our Term Loan, we are exposed to interest rate risk on our Term Loan. To partially mitigate such interest rate risk, we entered into interest rate swaps to exchange variable interest rate payments for fixed interest rate payments for a portion of the outstanding Term Loan balance. At February 3, 2018, the notional amount of the interest rate swaps totaled $410.0 million. In addition, in 2015, we entered into the Incremental Facility Agreement No. 1 to the credit agreement governing the Term Loan to refinance $400.0 million principal amount of term loans that bore interest at a variable rate with $400.0 million principal amount of new term loans, which bear interest at a fixed rate of 5.0% per annum.. After consideration of the swaps and the refinancing, as of February 3, 2018, 87% of our total debt was at a fixed rate with the remainder at a variable rate.  As a result, we believe our interest rate risk is substantially mitigated.  At February 3, 2018, the effect of a one percentage point change in interest rates would result in an approximate $1.8 million change in annual interest expense on our Term Loan. At February 3, 2018, assuming all capacity under the ABL Facility is fully drawn, each one percentage point change in interest rates would result in approximately a $5.5 million change in annual interest expense."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
