[1] "ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS. Risks to Our Industry. Our business may be negatively impacted by general economic conditions in the United States and abroad.. Our performance is subject to global economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending that affect not only the ultimate consumer, but also small businesses and other retailers.  Specialty retail, and retail in general, is heavily influenced by general economic cycles.  Purchases of non-essential, discretionary products tend to decline in periods of recession or uncertainty regarding future economic prospects, as disposable income declines.  During periods of economic uncertainty, we may not be able to maintain or increase our sales to existing customers, make sales to new customers, open and operate new stores, maintain sales levels at our existing stores, maintain or increase our international operations on a profitable basis, maintain our earnings from operations as a percentage of net sales, or generate sufficient cash flows to fund our operational and liquidity needs. While consumer spending in the United States has stabilized recently, it could deteriorate in the future.  As a result, our operating results may be adversely and materially affected by downward trends or uncertainty in the United States or global economies.. Increases in the price of leather and other items we sell or a reduction in availability of those products could increase our cost of goods and decrease our profitability.. The prices we pay our suppliers for our products are dependent in part on the market price for leather, metals, and other products.  The cost of these items may fluctuate substantially, depending on a variety of factors, including demand, supply conditions, transportation costs, government regulation, economic climates, political considerations, and other unpredictable factors.  Leather prices world-wide have been relatively stable for the past several years although the outlook for future prices is uncertain.  Increases in these costs, together with other factors, will make it difficult for us to sustain the gross margin level we have achieved in recent years and result in a decrease in our profitability unless we are able to pass higher prices on to our customers or reduce costs in other areas.  Accordingly, such increases in costs could adversely affect our business and our results of operations.. Further, involvement by the United States in war and other military operations abroad could disrupt international trade and affect our inventory sources.  Finally, livestock diseases, such as mad cow, could reduce the availability of hides and leathers or increase their cost.  The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our business and our results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Business. We may be unable to sustain our financial performance or our past growth, which may have a material adverse effect on our future operating results.. In 2017, we experienced a decline in sales, primarily due to lower sales from our non-retail customers and a decline in operating income due to recent investments in our district manager program and new store growth strategy.  Many other specialty retailers have experienced declining sales and losses due to the overall challenging retail environment.  Our sales and profits may continue to be negatively affected in the future.  We anticipate that our financial performance will depend on a number of factors, including consumer preferences, the strength and protection of our brand, the introduction of new products, and the success of our district manager program.  Our future success will depend substantially on the ability of our management team to successfully execute on its business strategies.  If we fail to successfully execute on these business strategies, our future operating results could be adversely affected.. 4. Table of Contents. Our profitability may decline from increasing pressure on margins.. Our industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including fluctuations in the cost of the leathers and metal products that we purchase and changes in consumer spending patterns and acceptance of our products.  Changes in consumers' product preferences or lack of acceptance of our products whose costs have increased may prohibit us from passing those increases on to customers which could cause our gross margin to decline.  If our product costs increase and our sale prices do not, our future operating results could be adversely affected unless we are able to offset such gross margin declines with comparable reductions in operating costs.. Our growth depends on our ability to open new stores and increase comparable store sales.. One of our key business strategies is to expand our base of retail stores. If we are unable to continue this strategy, our ability to increase our sales, profitability and cash flow could be impaired. To the extent we are unable to open new stores as we anticipate, our sales growth would come only from increases in comparable store sales. Growth in profitability in that case would depend significantly on our ability to improve gross margin. We may be unable to continue our store growth strategy if we cannot identify suitable sites for additional stores, negotiate acceptable leases, or hire and train a sufficient number of qualified team members.. Our success depends on the continued protection of our trademarks and other proprietary intellectual property rights.. Our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and competitive position, and the loss of or inability to enforce our trademark and other proprietary intellectual property rights could harm our business.  We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademark and other proprietary intellectual property rights on a worldwide basis.  Despite any precautions we may take to protect our intellectual property, policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, expensive, and time consuming, and we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property or determine the extent of any unauthorized use.  Our efforts to establish and protect our trademark and other proprietary intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation or counterfeiting of our products by others, which may not only erode sales of our products but may also cause significant damage to our brand name.  Further, we could incur substantial costs in legal actions relating to our use of intellectual property or the use of our intellectual property by others.  Even if we are successful in these actions, the costs we incur could have a material adverse effect on us.. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. We generally purchase our products in U.S. dollars.  However, we source a large portion of our products from countries other than the United States.  The cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the applicable currencies.  Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the U.S. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international business will sell products.  Furthermore, the majority of our international sales are generally derived from sales in foreign countries.  This revenue, when translated into U.S. dollars for consolidated reporting purposes, could be materially affected by fluctuations in the U.S. dollar, negatively impacting our results of operations and our ability to generate revenue growth.. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to maintain our brand image.. Tandy Leather is one of the most recognized brand names in our industry.  Our success to date has been due in large part to the strength of that brand.  If we are unable to provide quality products and exceptional customer service to our customers, including education, which Tandy Leather has traditionally been known for, our brand name may be impaired which could adversely affect our operating results.. We may be subject to information technology system failures or network disruptions, or our information systems may prove inadequate, resulting in damage to our reputation, business operations and financial condition.. We depend on our information systems for many aspects of our business, including in designing, manufacturing, marketing and distributing our products, as well as processing transactions, managing inventory and accounting for and reporting our results. Therefore, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our information systems.  Even with our preventative efforts, we may be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions. These may be caused by natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, denial - of - service attacks, computer viruses, physical or electronic break - ins, or similar events or disruptions. System redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Such failures or disruptions could prevent access to our online services and preclude store transactions, as well as require a significant investment to repair or replace them. System failures and disruptions could also impede the manufacturing and shipping of products, transactions processing and financial reporting. Additionally, we may be materially adversely affected if we are unable to improve, upgrade, maintain, and expand our systems.. A significant data security or privacy breach of our information systems could affect our business.. The protection of our customer, employee and other data is important to us, and our customers and employees expect that their personal information will be adequately protected. In addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is becoming increasingly demanding, with evolving requirements in the various jurisdictions in which we do business. Although we have developed and implemented systems and processes that are designed to protect personal and Company information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, such measures cannot provide absolute security. Additionally, our increased use and reliance on web-based hosted (i.e., cloud computing) applications and systems for the storage, processing and transmission of information, including customer and employee information, could expose us, our employees and our customers to a risk of loss or misuse of such information. Our efforts to protect personal and Company information may also be adversely impacted by data security or privacy breaches that occur at our third-party vendors. We cannot control these vendors and therefore cannot guarantee that a data security or privacy breach of their systems will not occur in the future. A significant breach of customer, employee or Company data could damage our reputation, relationships with customers, and our brand and could result in lost sales, sizable fines, significant breach-notification costs and lawsuits as well as adversely affect results of operations. We may also incur additional costs in the future related to the implementation of additional security measures to protect against new or enhanced data security and privacy threats, to comply with state, federal and international laws that may be enacted to address those threats or to investigate or address potential or actual data security or privacy breaches.. 5. Table of Contents. The loss or a prolonged disruption in the operation of our centralized distribution center could adversely affect its business and operations.. We maintain a distribution center in Fort Worth, Texas dedicated to warehousing merchandise to handle worldwide store replenishment and process some direct-to-customer orders. Although we believe that we have appropriate contingency plans, unforeseen disruptions impacting our centralized distribution center for a prolonged period of time may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to stores or in fulfilling customer orders.. Other uncertainties, which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control, may occur as well and may adversely affect our business and our results of operations."
