[1] "ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Real Estate Investments. We may be unable to develop new outlet centers or expand existing outlet centers successfully.. We continue to develop new outlet centers and expand existing outlet centers as opportunities arise. However, there are significant risks associated with our development activities in addition to those generally associated with the ownership and operation of established retail properties. While we have policies in place designed to limit the risks associated with development, these policies do not mitigate all development risks associated with a project. These risks include the following:. • significant expenditure of money and time on projects that may be delayed or never be completed;. • higher than projected construction costs;. • shortage of construction materials and supplies;. • failure to obtain zoning, occupancy or other governmental approvals or to the extent required, tenant approvals; and. • late completion because of construction delays, delays in the receipt of zoning, occupancy and other approvals or other factors outside of our control.. Any or all of these factors may impede our development strategy and adversely affect our overall business.. The economic performance and the market value of our outlet centers are dependent on risks associated with real property investments.. Real property investments are subject to varying degrees of risk. The economic performance and values of real estate may be affected by many factors, including changes in the national, regional and local economic climate, inflation, changes in government policies and regulations, unemployment rates, consumer confidence, consumer shopping preferences, local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area, the attractiveness of the properties to tenants, competition from other available space, our ability to provide adequate maintenance and insurance and increased operating costs.. Real property investments are relatively illiquid.. Our outlet centers represent a substantial portion of our total consolidated assets. These assets are relatively illiquid. As a result, our ability to sell one or more of our outlet centers in response to any changes in economic or other conditions is limited. If we want to sell an outlet center, there can be no assurance that we will be able to dispose of it in the desired time period or that the sales price will exceed the cost of our investment.. 12. Properties may be subject to impairment charges which can adversely affect our financial results.. We periodically evaluate long-lived assets to determine if there has been any impairment in their carrying values and record impairment losses if the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than their carrying amounts or if there are other indicators of impairment.  If it is determined that an impairment has occurred, we would be required to record an impairment charge equal to the excess of the asset's carrying value over its estimated fair value, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results in the accounting period in which the adjustment is made.  Our estimates of undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by each property are based on a number of assumptions that are subject to economic and market uncertainties including, but not limited to, estimated hold period, terminal capitalization rates, demand for space, competition for tenants, changes in market rental rates and costs to operate each property. As these factors are difficult to predict and are subject to future events that may alter our assumptions, the future cash flows estimated in our impairment analysis may not be achieved.. Also, we assess whether there are any indicators that the value of our investments in unconsolidated joint ventures may be impaired. An investment is impaired only if management's estimate of the value of the investment is less than the carrying value of the investments, and such decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary. To the extent impairment has occurred, the loss is measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over the value of the investment. Our estimates of value for each joint venture investment are based on a number of assumptions that are subject to economic and market uncertainties including, among others, estimated hold period, terminal capitalization rates, demand for space, competition for tenants, discount and capitalization rates, changes in market rental rates and operating costs of the property. As these factors are difficult to predict and are subject to future events that may alter our assumptions, the values estimated by us in our impairment analysis may not be realized.. Dispositions may not achieve anticipated results.. From time to time, we may strategically dispose of assets with the goal of improving the overall performance of our core portfolio.  However, we may not achieve the results we originally anticipated at the time of disposition. If we are not successful at achieving the anticipated results, there is a potential for a significant adverse impact on our returns and our overall profitability.. We face competition for the acquisition and development of outlet centers, and we may not be able to complete acquisitions or developments that we have identified.. We intend to grow our business in part through acquisitions and new developments.  We compete with institutional pension funds, private equity investors, other REITs, small owners of outlet centers, specialty stores and others who are engaged in the acquisition, development or ownership of outlet centers and stores.  These competitors may succeed in acquiring or developing outlet centers themselves.  Also, our potential acquisition targets may find our competitors to be more attractive acquirers because they may have greater marketing and financial resources, may be willing to pay more, or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. In addition, the number of entities competing to acquire or develop outlet centers has increased and may continue to increase in the future, which could increase demand for these outlet centers and the prices we must pay to acquire or develop them. If we pay higher prices for outlet centers, our profitability may be reduced. Also, once we have identified potential acquisitions, such acquisitions are subject to the successful completion of due diligence, the negotiation of definitive agreements and the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to reach acceptable terms with the sellers or that these conditions will be satisfied.. We may be subject to environmental regulation.. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be considered an owner or operator of real property and may be responsible for paying for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances released on or in our property or disposed of by us, as well as certain other potential costs which could relate to hazardous or toxic substances (including governmental fines and injuries to persons and property). This liability may be imposed whether or not we knew about, or were responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances.. 13. Possible terrorist activity or other acts or threats of violence and threats to public safety could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Terrorist attacks and threats of terrorist attacks, whether in the United States, Canada or elsewhere, or other acts or threats of violence may result in declining economic activity, which could harm the demand for goods and services offered by our tenants and the value of our properties and might adversely affect the value of an investment in our securities. Such a resulting decrease in retail demand could make it difficult for us to renew or re-lease our properties.. Terrorist activities or violence also could directly affect the value of our properties through damage, destruction or loss.  In addition, these acts and threats might erode business and consumer confidence and spending, and might result in increased volatility in national and international financial markets and economies. Any one of these events might decrease demand for real estate, decrease or delay the occupancy of our properties, impair the ability of tenants to meet their obligations under their existing leases,  limit our access to capital, increase our cost of raising capital and/or give rise to third party claims.. Risks Related to our Business. Our earnings and therefore our profitability are dependent on rental income from real property.. Substantially all of our income is derived from rental income from real property. Our income and funds for distribution would be adversely affected if rental rates at our centers decrease, if a significant number of our tenants were unable to meet their obligations to us or if we were unable to lease a significant amount of space in our outlet centers on economically favorable lease terms. In addition, the terms of outlet store tenant leases traditionally have been significantly shorter than in other retail segments. There can be no assurance that any tenant whose lease expires in the future will renew such lease or that we will be able to re-lease space on economically favorable terms.. We are substantially dependent on the results of operations of our retailers.. Our operations are subject to the results of operations of our retail tenants.  A portion of our rental revenues are derived from percentage rents that directly depend on the sales volume of certain tenants. Accordingly, declines in these tenants' results of operations would reduce the income produced by our properties. If the sales or profitability of our retail tenants decline sufficiently, whether due to a change in consumer preferences, legislative changes that increase the cost of their operations or otherwise, such tenants may be unable to pay their existing rents as such rents would represent a higher percentage of their sales. Any resulting leasing delays, failures to make payments or tenant bankruptcies could result in the termination of such tenants' leases.. A number of companies in the retail industry, including some of our tenants, have declared bankruptcy or have voluntarily closed certain of their stores in recent years. The bankruptcy of a major tenant or number of tenants may result in the closing of certain affected stores, and we may not be able to re-lease the resulting vacant space for some time or for equal or greater rent. Such bankruptcy, or the voluntary closings of a significant amount of stores, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could result in a lower level of funds for distribution.. Certain of our properties are subject to ownership interests held by third parties, whose interests may conflict with ours and thereby constrain us from taking actions concerning these properties which otherwise would be in our best interests and our shareholders' interests.. We own partial interests in outlet centers with various joint venture partners.  The approval or consent of the other members of these joint ventures is required before we may sell, finance, expand or make other significant changes in the operations of these properties. We also may not have control over certain major decisions, including approval of the annual operating budgets, selection or termination of the property management company, leasing and the timing and amount of distributions, which could result in decisions that do not fully reflect our interests. To the extent such approvals or consents are required, we may experience difficulty in, or may be prevented from, implementing our plans and strategies with respect to expansion, development, property management, on-going operations, financing (for example, decisions as to whether to refinance or obtain financing, when and whether to pay down principal of any loan and whether and how to cure any defaults under loan documents) or other similar transactions with respect to such properties.. 14. An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds our insurance policies on our outlet centers or the insurance policies of our tenants could subject us to lost capital and revenue on those outlet centers.. Some of the risks to which our outlet centers are subject, including risks of terrorist attacks, war, earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters, are not insurable or may not be insurable in the future. Should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the insurance policies noted above or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in and anticipated revenue from one or more of our outlet centers, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.. Under the terms and conditions of our leases, tenants generally are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons and contamination of air, water, land or property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted in the leased space, except for claims arising from negligence or intentional misconduct by us or our agents. Additionally, tenants generally are required, at the tenant's expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies issued by companies acceptable to us. These policies include liability coverage for bodily injury and property damage arising out of the ownership, use, occupancy or maintenance of the leased space. All of these policies may involve substantial deductibles and certain exclusions. Therefore, an uninsured loss or loss that exceeds the insurance policies of our tenants could also subject us to lost capital and revenue.. Consumer spending habits may change.. Shoppers may choose to spend a greater percentage of their disposable income to purchase goods through e-commerce or other retail channels, which could reduce the number of trips to our outlet centers and the average amount spent per visit.  Such a change in consumer spending habits could adversely affect the results of operations of our retail tenants and adversely impact our percentage rents and ability to renew and release space at favorable rental rates.. Our Canadian investments may subject us to different or greater risk from those associated with our domestic operations.. As of December 31, 2017, through a co-ownership arrangement with a Canadian REIT, we have an ownership interest in four properties in Canada.  Our operating results and the value of our Canadian operations may be impacted by any unhedged movements in the Canadian dollar. Canadian ownership activities carry risks that are different from those we face with our domestic properties. These risks include:. • adverse effects of changes in the exchange rates between the US and Canadian dollar;. • changes in Canadian political and economic environments, regionally, nationally, and locally;. • challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws;. • changes in applicable laws and regulations in the United States that affect foreign operations;. • property management services being provided directly by our 50/50  co-owner, not by us; and. • obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash.. Any or all of these factors may adversely impact our operations and financial results, as well as our overall business.. 15. Our success significantly depends on our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain key personnel.. Our success depends upon the personal efforts and abilities of our senior management team and other key personnel. Although we believe we have a strong management team with relevant industry expertise, the extended loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the securities markets' view of our prospects and materially harm our business.  Also, our success and the achievement of our goals are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees.. Risks Related to our Indebtedness and Financial Markets. We are subject to the risks associated with debt financing.. We are subject to the risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that the cash provided by our operating activities will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest.  Disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our operations, including the ability to fund the planned capital expenditures and potential new developments or acquisitions. Further, there is the risk that we will not be able to repay or refinance existing indebtedness or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness. If we are unable to access capital markets to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, we might be forced to dispose of properties on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses.. The Operating Partnership guarantees debt or otherwise provides support for a number of joint venture properties.. Joint venture debt is the liability of the joint venture and is typically secured by a mortgage on the joint venture property, which is non-recourse to us.  A default by a joint venture under its debt obligations may expose us to liability under a guaranty. We may elect to fund cash needs of a joint venture through equity contributions (generally on a basis proportionate to our ownership interests), advances or partner loans, although such fundings are not typically required contractually or otherwise.. Risks Related to Federal Income Tax Laws. The Company's failure to qualify as a REIT could subject our earnings to corporate level taxation.. We believe that we have operated and intend to operate in a manner that permits the Company to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. However, we cannot assure you that the Company has qualified or will remain qualified as a REIT. If in any taxable year the Company were to fail to qualify as a REIT and certain statutory relief provisions were not applicable, the Company would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to shareholders in computing taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax for tax years prior to 2018) on our taxable income at the regular corporate rate. The Company's failure to qualify for taxation as a REIT would have a material adverse effect on the market price and marketability of our securities.. The Company is required by law to make distributions to our shareholders.. To obtain the favorable tax treatment associated with the Company's qualification as a REIT, generally, the Company is required to distribute to its shareholders at least 90% of its net taxable income (excluding capital gains) each year. The Company depends upon distributions or other payments from the Operating Partnership to make distributions to the Company's common shareholders. The Company is allowed to satisfy the REIT income distribution requirement by distributing up to 80% of the dividends on its common shares in the form of additional common shares in lieu of paying dividends entirely in cash. Although we reserve the right to utilize this procedure in the future, we currently have no intent to do so.. 16. Recent changes in law significantly changed the U.S. federal income taxation of U.S. businesses, including us.. Recently enacted U.S. tax legislation (the \"2017 Tax Legislation\") has significantly changed the U.S. federal income taxation of U.S. businesses and their owners, including REITs and their shareholders.  Changes made by the 2017 Tax Legislation that could affect us and our shareholders from a U.S. federal income tax perspective include:. • temporarily reducing individual U.S. federal income tax rates on ordinary income;. • permanently eliminating the progressive corporate tax rate structure, which previously imposed a maximum corporate tax rate of 35%, and replacing it with a flat corporate tax rate of 21%;. • permitting a deduction for certain pass-through business income, including dividends received by our shareholders from us that are not designated by us as capital gain dividends or qualified dividend income, which will allow individuals, trusts, and estates to deduct up to 20% of such amounts for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026;. • reducing the highest rate of withholding with respect to our distributions to non-U.S. stockholders that are treated as attributable to gains from the sale or exchange of U.S. real property interests from 35% to 21%;. • generally limiting the deduction for net business interest expense in excess of 30% of a business's \"adjusted taxable income,\" except for taxpayers (including certain REITs) that engage in certain real estate businesses and elect out of this rule (provided that such electing taxpayers must use an alternative depreciation system with longer depreciation periods); and. • eliminating the corporate alternative minimum tax.. Many of these changes are effective immediately, without any transition periods or grandfathering for existing transactions.  The legislation could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as interpretations and implementing regulations by the U.S. Treasury Department, IRS and courts, any of which could change the impact of the legislation.  In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities.  While some of the changes made by this tax legislation may adversely affect us in one or more reporting periods and prospectively, other changes may be beneficial on a going forward basis.  We continue to work with our tax advisors and auditors to determine the full impact that the recent tax legislation as a whole will have on us.. Further federal or state legislative or other actions could adversely affect our shareholders.. Other future changes to tax laws may adversely affect the taxation of the REIT, its subsidiaries or its shareholders. These changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in our shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our assets.. These potential changes could generally result in REITs having fewer tax advantages, and may lead REITs to determine that it would be more advantageous to elect to be taxed, for federal income tax purposes, as a corporation.. Additionally, not all states automatically conform to changes in the Internal Revenue Code. This could increase the complexity of our compliance costs, and may subject us to additional tax and audit risk.. 17. Risks Related to our Organizational Structure. The Company depends on distributions from the Operating Partnership to meet its financial obligations, including dividends.. The Company's operations are conducted by the Operating Partnership, and the Company's only significant asset is its interest in the Operating Partnership.  As a result, the Company depends upon distributions or other payments from the Operating Partnership in order to meet its financial obligations, including its obligations under any guarantees or to pay dividends or liquidation payments to its common shareholders. As a result, these obligations are effectively subordinated to existing and future liabilities of the Operating Partnership. The Operating Partnership is a party to loan agreements with various bank lenders that require the Operating Partnership to comply with various financial and other covenants before it may make distributions to the Company. Although the Operating Partnership presently is in compliance with these covenants, there is no assurance that the Operating Partnership will continue to be in compliance and that it will be able to make distributions to the Company.. Risks Related to Cyber Security. Cyber-attacks or acts of cyber-terrorism could disrupt our business operations and information technology systems or result in the loss or exposure of confidential or sensitive customer, employee or Company information.. Our business operations and information technology systems may be attacked by individuals or organizations intending to disrupt our business operations and information technology systems, whether through cyber attacks or cyber-intrusions over the Internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization, or persons with access to systems inside our organization.  The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attacks or cyber-intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments, and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. We use information technology systems to manage our outlet centers and other business processes.  Disruption of those systems could adversely impact our ability to operate our business to provide timely service to our customers and maintain our relationships with our tenants.  Accordingly, if such an attack or act of terrorism were to occur, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, we use our information technology systems to protect confidential or sensitive customer, employee and Company information developed and maintained in the normal course of our business.  Any attack on such systems that would result in the unauthorized release or loss of customer, employee or other confidential or sensitive data could have a material adverse effect on our business reputation, increase our costs and expose us to additional material legal claims and liability. As a result, if such an attack or act of terrorism were to occur, our operations and financial results and our share price could be adversely affected."
