[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. Realization of any of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, including valuation of our equity investments, results of operations and cash flows, including our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Investors should review and carefully consider all of the information contained in this report, including the following discussion of risks when making investment decisions relating to our Partnership.. RISKS RELATED TO THE PARTNERSHIP. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to holders of our common units depends primarily on our cash flow rather than on our profitability, which may prevent us from making distributions, even during periods in which we earn net income.. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flows and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when losses are incurred and may not make cash distributions during periods when we earn net income.. Our ability to make cash distributions is dependent primarily on our cash flow, financial reserves and working capital borrowings.. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate based on, among other things:. <U+0095>the rates we charge for our transmission and changes in demand for our transportation services;   <U+0095>legislative or regulatory action affecting the demand for natural gas, the supply of natural gas, the rates we can charge, how we contract for services, our existing contracts, operating costs and operating flexibility;   <U+0095>the commodity price of natural gas, which could reduce the quantities of natural gas available for transport;   <U+0095>the creditworthiness of our customers;. TC PipeLines, LP Annual Report 2017    25. <U+0095>changes in, or new, statutes, regulations or governmental policies by federal, state and local authorities with respect to protection of the environment;   <U+0095>changes in accounting rules and/or tax laws or their interpretations;   <U+0095>nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with or changes in contract terms with, major customers, suppliers, dealers, distributors or other business partners; and   <U+0095>changes in, or new, statutes, regulations, governmental policies and taxes, or their interpretations.. Significant changes in energy prices could impact supply and demand balances for natural gas.. Prolonged low oil and natural gas prices can have a positive impact on demand but can negatively impact exploration and development of new natural gas supplies that could impact the availability of natural gas to be transported by our pipelines. Similarly, high commodity prices can increase levels of exploration and development but can reduce demand for natural gas leading to reduced demand for transportation services. Sustained low or high oil and natural gas prices could also impact shippers' creditworthiness that could impact their ability to meet their transportation service cost obligations.. If we do not successfully identify and complete expansion projects or make and integrate acquisitions that are accretive, we may not be able to continue to grow our cash distributions.. Our strategy is to continue to grow the cash distributions on our common units by expanding our business. Our ability to grow depends on our ability to undertake acquisitions and organic growth projects, the ability of our pipeline systems to complete expansion projects and make and integrate acquisitions that result in an increase in cash per common unit generated from operations. Our ability to complete successful, accretive expansion projects or acquisitions is dependent upon many factors, including our ability to secure necessary rights-of-way or regulatory approvals, our ability to finance such expansion projects or acquisitions on economically acceptable terms and the degree to which our assumptions about volumes, reserves, revenues, costs and customer commitments materialize. In addition, many U.S. environmental laws provide for citizen suits, and environmental groups frequently use these provisions to challenge environmental reviews and permits issued in connection with pipeline infrastructure projects, resulting in costly delays. Acquisitions may not be available to the Partnership or occur at the prices, terms, with the same structure or on the schedule consistent with historical transactions.. TransCanada may offer to sell its assets to the Partnership, subject to TransCanada's funding needs and market conditions. There can be no assurance, however, as to when and on what terms these assets will be offered to the Partnership.. In addition, we face competition for acquisitions from investment funds, strategic buyers and commercial finance companies. These companies may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments that permit them to offer higher prices that we may be unwilling to match.. Expansion projects or future acquisitions that appear to be accretive may nevertheless reduce our cash from operations on a per unit basis.. Even if we complete expansion projects or make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these expansion projects or acquisitions may nevertheless reduce our cash from operations on a per-unit basis. Any expansion project or acquisition involves potential risks, including:. <U+0095>an inability to complete expansion projects on schedule or within the budgeted cost due to, among other factors, the unavailability of required construction personnel, equipment or materials and the risk of cost overruns resulting from inflation or increased costs of materials, labor and equipment;   <U+0095>a decrease in our liquidity as a result of using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the project or acquisition;. 26    TC PipeLines, LP Annual Report 2017. <U+0095>an inability to receive cash flows from a newly built or acquired asset until it is operational; and   <U+0095>unforeseen difficulties operating in new business areas or new geographic areas.. As a result, our new facilities may not achieve expected investment returns, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. If any completed expansion projects or acquisitions reduce our cash from operations on a per unit basis, our ability to make distributions may be reduced.. Exposure to variable interest rates and general volatility in the financial markets and economy could adversely affect our business, our common unit price, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. As of December 31, 2017, $435 million of our total $2,415 million of consolidated debt was subject to variable interest rates. As a result, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates. From time to time, we may enter into interest rate swap arrangements which may increase or decrease our exposure to variable interest rates but there is no assurance that these will be sufficient to offset rising interest rates. As of December 31, 2017, the $500 million 2013 Term Loan Facility was hedged by fixed interest rate swap and forward starting swap arrangements.. For more information about our interest rate risk, see Part II, Item 7A. \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  -  Market Risk.\". Our indebtedness may limit our ability to obtain additional financing, make distributions or pursue business opportunities.. The amount of the Partnership's current or future debt could have significant consequences to the Partnership including the following:. <U+0095>our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, acquisitions, payment of distributions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms;   <U+0095>credit rating agencies may view our debt level negatively;   <U+0095>covenants contained in our existing debt arrangements will require us to continue to meet financial tests that may adversely affect our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business;   <U+0095>our need for cash to fund interest payments on the debt reduces the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to our unitholders; and   <U+0095>our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited.. In addition, our ability to access capital markets to raise capital on favorable terms will be affected by our debt level, our operating and financial performance, the amount of our current maturities and debt maturing in the next several years and by prevailing market conditions. Moreover, if the rating agencies were to downgrade our credit ratings, then we could experience an increase in our borrowing costs, face difficulty accessing capital markets or incurring additional indebtedness, be unable to receive open credit from our suppliers and trade counterparties, be unable to benefit from swings in market prices and shifts in market structure during periods of volatility in the oil and gas markets or suffer a reduction in the market price of our common units. If we are unable to access the capital markets on favorable terms at the time a debt obligation becomes due in the future, we may refinance some of our debt obligations through bank credit, as opposed to long-term public debt securities or equity securities, or sell assets. The price and terms upon which we might receive such extensions or additional bank credit, if at all, could be more onerous than those contained in existing debt agreements. Any such arrangements could, in turn, increase the risk that our leverage may adversely affect our future financial and operating flexibility and thereby impact our ability to pay cash distributions at expected rates.. TC PipeLines, LP Annual Report 2017    27. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms to fund expansion projects or future acquisitions, our ability to make quarterly cash distributions may be diminished or our financial leverage could increase.. The prolonged low oil and natural gas prices in the energy industry have made, and will likely continue to make it difficult for some entities to obtain funding. In order to fund our expansion capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash from our operations, incur borrowings or sell additional common units or other limited partner interests. Using cash from operations will reduce distributable cash flow to our common unitholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering, the covenants in our debt agreements, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Even if we are successful in obtaining funds for expansion capital expenditures through equity or debt financings, the terms thereof could limit our ability to pay distributions to our common unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional limited partner interests may result in significant common unitholder dilution and increase the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then-current distribution rate, which could materially decrease our ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rate. If funding is not available to us when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to execute our business plans, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, credit ratings, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. An impairment of an equity investment, a long-lived asset or goodwill could reduce our earnings or negatively impact the value of our common units.. Consistent with GAAP, we evaluate our goodwill for impairment at least annually and our equity investments and long-lived assets, including intangible assets with finite useful lives, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. For the investments we account for under the equity method, the impairment test requires us to consider whether the fair value of the equity investment as a whole, not the underlying net assets, has declined and whether that decline is other than temporary. If we determine that impairment is indicated, we would be required to take an immediate noncash charge to earnings with a correlative effect on equity and balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. This could have a negative impact on the common unit price.. As an example, in 2015, we recognized an impairment charge on our equity investment in Great Lakes amounting to $199 million and in 2016, our analysis on Tuscarora's goodwill balance indicated that the excess of its fair value over the carrying value, including goodwill was less than 10 percent.. There is a risk of future impairments related to our equity investments, goodwill or long-lived assets. If assumptions relied upon change, there can be no assurance no future impairment charge will be made with respect to our equity investments, goodwill and long-lived assets.. For more information, see Part II, Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Critical Accounting Estimates  -  Impairment of Equity Investments, Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets  -  Equity Investments.\". We do not own a controlling interest in our Equity Investments in Northern Border, Great Lakes and Iroquois, which limits our ability to control these assets.. We do not own a controlling interest in our Equity Investments and are therefore unable to cause certain actions to occur without the agreement of the other owners. As a result, we may be unable to control the amount of cash distributions received from these assets or the cash contributions required to fund our share of their operations. The major policies of these assets are established by their management committees, which consist of individuals who are designated by each of the partners and including us. These management committees generally require at least the. 28    TC PipeLines, LP Annual Report 2017. affirmative vote of a majority of the partners' percentage interests to take any action. Because of these provisions, without the concurrence of other partners, we would be unable to cause these assets to take or not to take certain actions, even though those actions may be in the best interests of the Partnership or these assets. Further, these assets may seek additional capital contributions. Our funding of these capital contributions would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. In the event we elected not to, or were unable to, make a capital contribution to these assets; our ownership interest would be diluted.. Any disagreements with the other owners of these assets could adversely affect our ability to respond to changing economic or industry conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR PIPELINE SYSTEMS. We may experience changes in demand for our transportation services which may lead to an inability of our pipelines to charge maximum rates or renew expiring contracts.. Our primary exposure to market risk and competitive pressure occurs at the time existing shipper contracts expire and are subject to renegotiation and renewal. The value of our transportation services depends on a shipper's demand for pipeline capacity and the price paid for that capacity. The inability of our pipelines to extend or replace expiring contracts on comparable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions. Our ability to extend and replace expiring contracts, particularly long-term firm contracts, on terms comparable to prior contracts, depends on many factors including:. <U+0095>changes in upstream and downstream pipeline capacity, which could impact the pipeline's ability to contract for transportation services;   <U+0095>the availability and supply of natural gas in Canada and the U.S.;   <U+0095>competition from alternative sources of supply;   <U+0095>competition from other existing or proposed pipelines;   <U+0095>contract expirations and capacity on competing pipelines;   <U+0095>changes in rates upstream or downstream of our pipeline systems, which can affect our pipeline systems' relative competitiveness;   <U+0095>basis differentials between the market location and location of natural gas supplies;   <U+0095>the liquidity and willingness of shippers to contract for transportation services; and   <U+0095>regulatory developments.. Natural gas on Bison is currently not flowing as a result of a change in demand for its services. There can be no assurance that we will be able to replace Bison's existing contracts and maintain its current revenues which could significantly reduce our earnings and cash flows.. Natural gas on Bison is currently not flowing in response to the relative cost advantage of WCSB  -  and Bakken-sourced gas versus Rockies production. Bison has not experienced a decrease in its revenue as it is fully contracted on a ship-or-pay basis through January of 2021. However, we may not be able to renew or contract for this capacity if this market condition continues to persist.. While we are currently working on other strategic alternatives to maximize the value of this asset which include discussions with producers in the area to determine the best use for Bison, including if the asset can be reversed, redirected or repurposed, there is a risk that options available at this time will not bring back the same level of revenue Bison currently generates. More importantly, Bison's revenues comprise approximately 19 percent of our consolidated revenues and if we are unsuccessful in securing contracts for Bison in the future or the options available to us do not. TC PipeLines, LP Annual Report 2017    29. materialize, there could be a significant reduction in our earnings and cash flows and ultimately, an impairment on Bison's long lived assets.. Rates and other terms of service for our pipeline systems are subject to approval and potential adjustment by FERC, which could limit their ability to recover all costs of capital and operations and negatively impact their rate of return, results of operations and cash available for distribution.. Our pipeline systems are subject to extensive regulation over virtually all aspects of their business, including the types and terms of services they may offer to their customers, construction of new facilities, creation, modification or abandonment of services or facilities, and the rates that they can charge to shippers. Under the NGA, their rates must be just, reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. Actions by FERC (see Item 1. \"Business  -  Government Regulation\") could adversely affect our pipeline systems' ability to recover all of their current or future costs and could negatively impact their rate of return, results of operations and cash available for distribution.. For example, in December 2016, FERC issued a Notice of Inquiry Regarding the Commission's Policy for Recovery of Income Tax Costs (Docket No. PL17-1-000) requesting Initial Comments regarding how to address any double recovery resulting from FERC's current income tax allowance and rate of return policies that are in effect since 2005.. Various comments have been received by FERC and most recently, comments on how the 2017 Tax Act will affect the income tax recovery allowed on regulated pipelines. While the outcome of the inquiry is still pending, we believe that there is not likely to be a definitive resolution of these issues for some time. However, the outcome could result in changes going forward to FERC's treatment of income tax allowances in the cost of service or to the discounted cash flow return on equity that could have an impact on the rates of any of our interstate natural gas pipelines.. We are dependent on the continued availability of and demand for, natural gas in relation to our pipeline systems.. As the long-term contracts on our pipeline systems expire, the demand for transportation service on our pipeline systems will depend on the availability of supply from the basins connected to our systems and the demand for natural gas in the markets we serve. Natural gas availability from basins depends upon numerous factors including basin production costs, production levels, environmental regulation, availability of storage and natural gas prices. Our pipeline systems are also dependent on the continued demand for natural gas in their market areas. If supply and/or demand should significantly fall, our pipeline systems may be at risk for loss of contracting or contracting at discounted rates which could impact our revenues.. Our pipeline systems' business systems could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cyber security threats, and related disruptions.. In 2012, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security issued public warnings that indicate that pipelines and other assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations or \"cyber security\" events. During 2016, PHMSA posted warnings to all pipeline owners and operators of the importance of safeguarding and securing their pipeline facilities and monitoring their supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems for abnormal operations and/or indications of unauthorized access or interference with safe pipeline operations based on recent incidents involving environmental activists.. These potential security events might include our pipeline systems or operating systems and may result in damage to our pipeline facilities and affect our ability to operate or control our pipeline assets; their operations could be disrupted and/or customer information could be stolen.. We depend on the secure operation of our physical assets to transport the energy we deliver and our information technology to process, transmit and store electronic information, including information TransCanada uses to safely operate our pipeline systems. Security breaches could expose our business to a risk of loss, misuse or interruption of critical physical assets or information and functions that affect the pipeline operations. Such losses could result in operational impacts, damage to our assets, public or personnel safety incidents, damage to the environment,. 30    TC PipeLines, LP Annual Report 2017. reputational harm, competitive disadvantage, regulatory enforcement actions, litigation and a potential material adverse effect on our operations, financial position and results of operations. There is no certainty that costs incurred related to securing against threats will be recovered through rates.. If our pipeline systems do not make additional capital expenditures sufficient to offset depreciation expense, our rate base will decline and our earnings and cash flow could decrease over time.. Our pipeline systems are allowed to collect from their customers a return on their assets or \"rate base\" as reflected in their financial records, as well as recover a portion of that rate base over time through depreciation. In the absence of additions to the rate base through capital expenditures, the rate base will decline over time, and in the event of a rate proceeding, this could result in reductions in revenue, earnings and cash flows of our pipeline systems.. Our pipeline systems' indebtedness and commitments may limit their ability to borrow additional funds, make distributions to us or capitalize on business opportunities.. Our pipeline systems' respective debt levels and commitments could have negative consequences to each of them and the Partnership, including the following:. <U+0095>their ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms;   <U+0095>their need for cash to fund interest payments on the debt reduces the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to us;   <U+0095>their debt level may make them more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in their business or the economy generally; and   <U+0095>their debt level may limit their flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions.. Our pipeline systems' ability to service their respective debt will depend upon, among other things, future financial and operating performance which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond their control.. In the event the PXP project does not proceed, PNGTS may be responsible for the reimbursement of TransCanada's upstream capital expenditures on the related Canadian system expansions, which could have a negative impact on PNGTS' ability to make cash distributions to its partners.. In connection with PXP, PNGTS has entered into an arrangement with TransCanada regarding the construction of certain facilities on its system that will be required to fulfill future contracts on the PNGTS' system. In the event the TransCanada expansions terminate prior to the in-service date of the final phase of PXP, PNGTS could be required to reimburse TransCanada for up to the amount of TransCanada PXP Expenditures incurred to date of termination, the majority of which is expected to be incurred following the anticipated receipt dates of required regulatory approvals, prior to the end of phase II of the project. As of December 31, 2017, the total incurred was approximately $3 million. If PNGTS were required to reimburse TransCanada for TransCanada PXP Expenditures, it would reduce cash available for distributions to us and therefore reduce our cash available for distributions to unitholders. A project construction plan is in place to minimize expenditures until certain regulatory approvals are received.. See also Part I, Item 1. \"Business-Recent Business Developments\" for further information on the PXP Project.. Our pipeline systems are subject to operational hazards and unforeseeable interruptions that may not be covered by insurance.. Our pipeline systems are subject to inherent risks including, among other events, ruptures, earthquakes, adverse weather conditions and other natural disasters; terrorist activity, civil disobedience or acts of aggression; damage to a pipeline by a third party; and, pipeline or equipment failures. Each of these risks could result in damage to one of our pipeline systems, business interruptions, release of pollution or contaminants into the environment and other. TC PipeLines, LP Annual Report 2017    31. environmental hazards, or injuries to persons and property. These risks could cause us to suffer a substantial loss of revenue and incur significant costs to the extent they are not covered by insurance under our pipeline systems' shipper contracts, as applicable. In addition, if one of our pipeline systems was to experience a serious pipeline failure, a regulator could require our pipelines to conduct testing of the pipeline system or upgrade segments of a pipeline unrelated to the failure, which costs may not be covered by insurance or recoverable through rate increases. We could also face a potential reduction in operational parameters which could reduce the capacity available for sale.. Our pipelines could be subject to penalties and fines if they fail to comply with FERC regulations.. Our pipelines are subjected to substantial penalties and fines if FERC finds that our pipeline systems have failed to comply with all applicable FERC-administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, or the terms of their tariffs on file with FERC. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA and NGPA to impose penalties for violations of up to approximately $1.2 million per day for each violation, to revoke existing certificate authority and to order disgorgement of profits associated with any violation.. Our pipeline systems may experience significant costs and liabilities related to compliance with pipeline safety laws and regulations.. Our pipeline systems are subject to pipeline safety statutes and regulations administered by PHMSA, which require pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs.. The ongoing implementation of the pipeline integrity management programs could cause our pipeline systems to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure their continued safe and reliable operation and to comply with the federal pipeline safety statutes and regulations. Additionally, any failure to comply with PHMSA's regulations could subject our pipeline systems to penalties, fines or restrictions on our pipeline systems' operations. New legislation or regulations adopted by PHMSA may impose more stringent requirements applicable to integrity management programs and other pipeline safety aspects of our operations, which could cause us to incur increased capital costs, operational delays and costs of operations. For example, PHMSA has adopted or proposed pipeline safety regulations in 2011 and, more recently, in 2016 in response to legislation passed by the U.S. Congress that, among other things, increased the penalties for safety violations, established additional safety requirements for newly constructed pipelines and required studies of safety issues that could result in the adoption of new regulatory requirements by PHMSA for existing pipelines, and empowered PHMSA to address imminent hazards by imposing emergency restrictions, prohibitions and safety measures on owners and operators of regulated pipeline facilities without prior notice or an opportunity for a hearing.. The cost of new PHMSA regulations to our pipeline systems could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial position, cash flows, and our ability to maintain current distribution levels to the extent the increased costs are not recoverable through rates.. Our pipeline systems are regulated by federal, state and local laws and regulations that could impose costs for compliance with environmental protection requirements.. Each of our pipeline systems is subject to federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies. Potential liabilities may arise related to protection of the environment and natural resources. New environmental laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be implemented that significantly increase our pipeline systems' compliance costs. As an example, under the Clean Air Act the 2015 revisions to the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for ozone may result in the addition of non-attainment designations in additional counties in which our pipeline systems operate. States have submitted their initial non-attainment designations to the EPA and the agency expects to issue final non-attainment designation in 2018. Depending upon State Implementation Plans and the outcome of any legal challenges to such designations, additional permitting delays and expenditures for pollution control equipment could occur. This example illustrates the uncertainty to which proposed laws, regulations or reforms, if any, will be adopted and what impact they might ultimately have on our operations or financial results.. 32    TC PipeLines, LP Annual Report 2017. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities for pre-existing contamination that arise in connection with our past or current operations. For example, during routine maintenance activities, we may discover historical hydrocarbon or polychlorinated biphenyl contamination, which may require notification to the appropriate governmental authorities and corrective action to address.. There also exist legal initiatives directly affecting our customers that could indirectly affect our operations by reducing the need for our services. Such developments could cause our customers to incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements and experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, which subsequently could reduce demand for our transportation services.. Current and future emissions regulation legislation or regulations restricting emissions of GHG could result in increased operating costs.. There have been a number of legislative initiatives to regulate GHG emissions; however, uncertainty exists regarding the impact of new and proposed GHG laws and regulations. Moreover, implementation of GHG regulations is the subject of significant litigation which has created uncertainty in compliance requirements with both the regulatory agencies and industry. Recent federal rulemakings have focused on the emission of methane, which is considered by the EPA as a GHG. For example, in June 2016, the EPA published New Source Performance Standards, known as Subpart OOOOa, that require certain new, modified or reconstructed facilities in the oil and natural gas sector to reduce these methane gas and volatile organic compound emissions. These Subpart OOOOa standards will expand previously issued New Source Performance Standards published by the EPA in 2012 and known as Subpart OOOO, by using certain equipment-specific emissions control practices, requiring additional controls for modified pneumatic controllers and pumps as well as compressors and imposing leak detection and repair requirements for natural gas compressor and booster stations that are modified through an increase in horsepower. However, over the past year the EPA has taken several steps to delay implementation of these methane standards, and the agency proposed a rulemaking in June 2017 to stay the requirements for a period of two years and revisit implementation of the Subpart OOOOa rules in their entirety. The EPA has not yet published a final rule and the June 2016 rule remains in effect, but future implementation of the 2016 Subpart OOOOa standards is uncertain at this time. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, demand for our services, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The Cap and Invest Legislation (HB 4001 and SB 1507) that is scheduled to be proposed during the 2018 Oregon legislative session could result in higher cost of operating the GTN pipeline system. The Oregon Legislature is considering several GHG proposals that would regulate GHG emissions through a \"cap-and-invest\" program. The Cap and Invest Legislation (HB 4001 and SB 1507) is scheduled to be proposed during the 2018 Oregon legislative session that, in its current form, would provide GHG allowances to be allotted and sold by various entities. The information provided has not allowed us to reasonably anticipate or estimate the outcome of this proposed legislation at this time. Additionally, the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality are considering proposed rules to amend existing air quality rules. Comments to the proposed \"Cleaner Air Oregon\" rulemaking was scheduled for early 2018. At this time, we cannot reasonably estimate the impact of the proposed amended rules in its final form; however, it is expected that these rules will become finalized in 2018.. Recent pipeline safety legislation and proposed regulations could result in more stringent requirements on our facilities and systems that could trigger significant capital and operating costs.. The 2016 Pipeline Safety Act requires that PHMSA publish periodic updates on the status of those mandates outstanding from the 2011 Pipeline Safety Act, of which numerous initiatives remain to be completed. The mandates yet to be acted upon include requiring certain shut-off valves on transmission lines, mapping all high consequence areas, and shortening the deadline for accident and incident notifications.. TC PipeLines, LP Annual Report 2017    33. In March 2016, PHMSA announced a proposed rulemaking that would impose new or more stringent requirements for certain natural gas lines and gathering lines. Additional requirements proposed by this proposed rulemaking would increase PHMSA's integrity management requirements for natural gas pipelines. To date, no further action with respect to this proposed rulemaking has been taken. We continue to monitor proposed rulemaking developments and evaluate its potential impact, if any, of 2016 Pipeline Safety Act, in light of the many PHMSA initiatives and mandates. At this time, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of this legislation, and subsequent revisions to regulations on our operations; however, the adoption of any new legislation or regulations regarding increased pipeline safety could cause us to incur increased capital and operating costs, which costs could be significant.. We are exposed to credit risk when a customer fails to perform its contractual obligations.. Our pipeline systems are subject to a risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. Our exposure generally relates to receivables for services provided and future performance over the remaining contract terms under firm transportation contracts. Our pipelines' FERC approved tariffs limit the amount of credit support that they may require in the event that a customer's creditworthiness is or becomes unacceptable. If a significant customer has financial problems, which results in a delay or failure to pay for services provided by them or contracted for with them, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We do not own the majority of the land on which our pipeline systems are located, which could result in higher costs and disruptions to our operations, particularly with respect to easements and rights-of-way across Indian tribal lands.. We do not own the majority of the land on which our pipeline systems are located. We obtain easements, rights-of-way and other rights to construct and operate our pipeline systems from individual landowners, Native American tribes, governmental authorities and other third parties. Some of these rights expire after a specified period of time. As a result, we are subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and increased costs to renew expiring easements, rights-of-way and other land use rights. While we generally are able to obtain these rights through agreement with land owners or legal process, if necessary, rights-of-way across Indian tribal land require approval of the applicable tribal governing authority and the Bureau of Indian Affairs (the \"BIA\"). If efforts to retain existing land use rights on tribal land at a reasonable cost are unsuccessful, our pipeline systems could also be subject to a disruption of operations and increased costs to re-route the applicable portion of our pipeline system located on tribal land. Increased costs associated with renewing or obtaining new easements or rights-of-way and any disruption of operations could negatively impact the results of operations and cash available for distribution of our pipeline systems.. Our Great Lakes pipeline system has rights-of-way expiring during the second quarter of 2018 on approximately 7.6 miles of pipeline across tribal land located within the Fond du Lac Reservation and Leech Lake Reservation in Minnesota and the Bad River Reservation in Wisconsin. We are negotiating to renew the rights-of-way with the tribal authorities. If we are unable to reach agreement regarding these rights-of way prior to expiration of the existing easements, we expect to continue operating the Great Lakes pipeline while continuing good faith negotiations with the tribal authorities to obtain the necessary rights. If these discussions ultimately are unsuccessful, we could be required to remove pipe from the tribal lands and re-route the applicable portion of the Great Lakes pipeline system. While the outcome of these negotiations or the ability to reach agreement prior to expiration of the existing rights is uncertain, the impact of a disruption of operations or significantly increased costs to renew the rights-of-way could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR PARTNERSHIP STRUCTURE. We do not have the same flexibility as corporations to accumulate cash and equity to protect against illiquidity in the future.. We are required by our Partnership Agreement to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders of all available cash, reduced by any amounts of reserves for commitments and contingencies, including capital and operating costs and debt. 34    TC PipeLines, LP Annual Report 2017. service requirements. The value of our units and other limited partner interests may decrease in direct correlation with decreases in the amount we distribute per common unit. Accordingly, if we experience a liquidity shortfall in the future, we may not be able to recapitalize by issuing more equity.. Common unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our General Partner or its board of directors.. The General Partner is our manager and operator. Unlike the stockholders in a corporation, holders of our common units have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business. Unitholders have no right to elect our General Partner or its board of directors. The members of the board of directors of our General Partner, including the independent directors, are appointed by its parent company and not by the unitholders.. Common unitholders cannot remove our General Partner without its consent.. Our General Partner may not be removed except by the vote of the holders of at least 662/3 percent of the outstanding common units. These required votes would include the votes of common units owned by our General Partner and its affiliates. TransCanada's ownership of 24.2 percent of our outstanding common units at December 31, 2017, has the practical effect of making removal of our General Partner difficult.. In addition, the Partnership Agreement contains some provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a person or group from attempting to remove our General Partner or otherwise change our management. If our General Partner is removed as our general partner under circumstances where cause does not exist and common units held by our General Partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal:. <U+0095>any existing arrearages in the payment of the minimum quarterly distributions on the common units will be extinguished; and   <U+0095>our General Partner will have the right to convert its general partner interests and its incentive distribution rights into common units or to receive cash in exchange for those interests.. Our Partnership Agreement restricts voting and other rights of unitholders owning 20 percent or more of our common units.. The Partnership Agreement contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings of unitholders or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Further, if any person or group other than our General Partner or its affiliates or a direct transferee of our General Partner or its affiliates acquires beneficial ownership of 20 percent or more of any class of common units then outstanding, that person or group will lose voting rights with respect to all of its common units. As a result, unitholders have limited influence on matters affecting our operations and third parties may find it difficult to attempt to gain control of us or influence our activities.. We may issue additional common units and other partnership interests, without unitholder approval, which would dilute the existing unitholders' ownership interests. In addition, issuance of additional common units or other partnership interests may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain the quarterly distribution payment at current levels.. Subject to certain limitations, we may issue additional common units and other partnership securities of any type, without the approval of unitholders.. Based on the circumstances of each case, the issuance of additional common units or securities ranking senior to, or on parity with, the common units may dilute the value of the interests of the then-existing holders of common units in the net assets of the Partnership. In addition, the issuance of additional common units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain the quarterly distribution payment at current levels.. TC PipeLines, LP Annual Report 2017    35. Our common unitholders' liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business.. A general partner generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of a limited partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. We are organized under Delaware law and conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some states. Our unitholders could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if our unitholders were a general partner if a court or government agency determined that:. <U+0095>the Partnership had been conducting business in any state without compliance with the applicable limited partnership statute; or   <U+0095>the right, or the exercise of the right, by the unitholders as a group to remove or replace our General Partner, to approve some amendments to the Partnership Agreement or to take other action under the Partnership Agreement constituted participation in the \"control\" of the Partnership's business.. In addition, under some circumstances, such as an improper cash distribution, a unitholder may be liable to the Partnership for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution.. Our General Partner has a limited call right that may require common unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our General Partner and its affiliates own 80 percent or more of the common units, the General Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or us, to acquire all of the remaining common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price generally equal to the then current market price of the common units. As a consequence, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at a time when they may not desire to sell them or at a price that is less than the price they would desire to receive upon sale. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. As of December 31, 2017, the General Partner and its affiliates own approximately 24.2 percent of our outstanding common units.. Our Partnership Agreement replaces our general partner's fiduciary duties to holders of our common units with contractual standards governing its duties.. The Partnership Agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary standards to which the General Partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replaces those duties with several different contractual standards. For example, our Partnership Agreement permits our General Partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our General Partner, free of any duties to us and our unitholders other than the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing, which means that a court will enforce the reasonable expectations of the partners where the language in the Partnership Agreement does not provide for a clear course of action. This provision entitles our General Partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Examples of decisions that our General Partner may make in its individual capacity include:. <U+0095>how to allocate corporate opportunities among us and its other affiliates;   <U+0095>whether to exercise its limited call right;   <U+0095>whether to seek approval of the resolution of a conflict of interest by the conflicts committee of the Board of Directors;   <U+0095>whether to elect to reset target distribution levels;   <U+0095>whether to transfer the incentive distribution rights to a third party; and   <U+0095>whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the Partnership or amendment to the Partnership Agreement.. 36    TC PipeLines, LP Annual Report 2017. By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder agrees to become bound by the provisions in the Partnership Agreement, including the provisions discussed above.. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded limited partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements.. Our common units are listed on the NYSE. Because we are a publicly traded limited partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have, and we do not intend to have, a majority of independent directors on our Board of Directors or to establish a nominating and corporate governance committee. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.. The credit and business risk profiles of our General Partner and TransCanada could adversely affect our credit ratings and profile.. The credit and business risk profiles of our General Partner and TransCanada may be factors in credit evaluations of a master limited partnership because our General Partner can exercise control over our business activities, including our cash distribution and acquisition strategy and business risk profile. Other factors that may be considered are the financial conditions of our General Partner and TransCanada, including the degree of their financial leverage and their dependence on cash flows from us to service their indebtedness.. Costs reimbursed to our General Partner are determined by our General Partner and reduce our earnings and cash available for distribution.. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we reimburse our General Partner and its affiliates, including officers and directors of the General Partner, for all expenses incurred by our General Partner and its affiliates on our behalf. During the year ended December 31, 2017 we paid fees and reimbursements to our General Partner in the amount of $4 million (2016 and 2015  -  $3 million). Our General Partner, in its sole discretion, determines the amount of these expenses. In addition, our General Partner and its affiliates may provide us with services for which we will be charged reasonable fees as determined by the General Partner. The reimbursement of expenses and the payment of fees could adversely affect our ability to make distributions.. Changes in TransCanada's costs or their cost allocation practices could have an effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Under the Partnership Agreement, the Partnership's pipeline systems operated by TransCanada are allocated certain costs of operations at TransCanada's sole discretion. Accordingly, revisions in the allocation process or changes to corporate structure may impact the Partnership's operating results. TransCanada reviews any changes and their prospective impact for reasonableness, however there can be no assurance that allocated operating costs will remain consistent from period to period.. TAX RISKS. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as us not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) were to treat us as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or if we were to become subject to a material amount of entity level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in us depends largely on our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, we would be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy a \"qualifying income\" requirement. Based upon our. TC PipeLines, LP Annual Report 2017    37. current operations, we believe we satisfy the qualifying income requirement. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income taxes on our taxable income at the applicable corporate tax rate, and we would likely have to pay state income taxes at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders (to the extent of our earnings and profits) would generally be taxed again to unitholders as corporate dividends, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because of a tax imposed upon us as a corporation, the cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Any tax treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to unitholders and thus would likely result in a substantial reduction in the value of the common units.. At the state level, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. Our Partnership Agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity level taxation for federal, state, or local income tax purposes, then specified provisions of the Partnership Agreement relating to distributions will be subject to change. These changes would include a decrease in distributions to reflect the impact of that law on us.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes or differing interpretations, possibly applied on a retroactive basis.. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units, may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. From time to time, members of the U.S. Congress have proposed and considered substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. Although there is no current legislative proposal, a prior legislative proposal would have eliminated the qualifying income exception for all publicly traded partnerships upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. In addition, on January 24, 2017, final regulations (the Final Regulations) regarding which activities give rise to qualifying income within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code) were published in the Federal Register. We do not believe the Final Regulations affect our ability to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. However, any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units.. If the IRS were to contest the federal income tax positions we take, it may adversely impact the market for our common units, and the costs of any such contest would reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to any tax matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings in an effort to sustain some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any contest with the IRS, may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which the common units trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne directly or indirectly by the unitholders and the General Partner.. 38    TC PipeLines, LP Annual Report 2017. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced and our current and former unitholders may be required to indemnify us for any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments that were paid on such unitholders' behalf.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us. Under our limited Partnership Agreement, our general partner is permitted to make elections under the new rules to either pay the taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly to the IRS or, if we are eligible, issue a revised information statement to each unitholder and former unitholder with respect to an audited and adjusted return. Although our general partner may elect to have our unitholders and former unitholders take such audit adjustment into account and pay any resulting taxes (including applicable penalties or interest) in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, there can be no assurance that such election will be practical, permissible or effective in all circumstances. As a result, our current unitholders may bear some or all of the tax liability resulting from such audit adjustment, even if such unitholders did not own units in us during the tax year under audit. If, as a result of any such audit adjustment, we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced and our current and former unitholders may be required to indemnify us for any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments that were paid on such unitholders' behalf. These rules are not applicable for tax years beginning on or prior to December 31, 2017.. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if they receive no cash distributions.. Because unitholders are treated as partners to whom we allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash distributed, unitholders may be required to pay U.S. federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their allocable share of our income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions equal to their allocable share of our taxable income or even the tax liability that results from that income.. Tax gains or losses on the disposition of common units could be different than expected.. If unitholders sell their common units, they will recognize a taxable gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their adjusted tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions in excess of the total net taxable income that a unitholder was allocated for a common unit, which distributions decreased the unitholder's tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income if the common unit is sold at a price greater than their adjusted tax basis in that common unit, even if the price is less than the original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized on the sale of common units, whether or not representing a gain, may be ordinary income to unitholders due to certain items such as potential depreciation recapture. If the IRS were to successfully contest some conventions we use, unitholders could recognize more taxable gain on the sale of common units than would be the case under those conventions without the benefit of decreased taxable income in prior years.. Unitholders may be subject to limitation on their ability to deduct interest expense incurred by us.. In general, our unitholders are entitled to a deduction for the interest we have paid or accrued on indebtedness properly allocable to our trade or business during our taxable year. However, under the 2017 Tax Act, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, our deduction for \"business interest\" is limited to the sum of our business interest income and 30% of our \"adjusted taxable income.\" For the purposes of this limitation, adjusted taxable income is computed without regard to any business interest expense or business interest income, and in the case of taxable years beginning before January 1, 2022, any deduction allowable for depreciation, amortization, or depletion. Although the interest limitation does not apply to certain regulated pipeline businesses, application of the interest limitation to tiered. TC PipeLines, LP Annual Report 2017    39. businesses like ours that hold interests in regulated businesses is not clear. Pending further guidance specific to this issue, we are not able to determine the impact the limitation could have on our unitholders' ability to deduct our interest expense, but it is possible that our unitholders' interest expense deduction will be limited.. Tax-exempt entities face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in our common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs) raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from U.S. federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Further, with respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, a tax-exempt entity with more than one unrelated trade or business (including by attribution from investment in a partnership such as ours that is engaged in one or more unrelated trade or business) is required to compute the unrelated business taxable income of such tax-exempt entity separately with respect to each such trade or business (including for purposes of determining any net operating loss deduction). As a result, for years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may not be possible for tax-exempt entities to utilize losses from an investment in our partnership to offset unrelated business taxable income from another unrelated trade or business and vice versa. Tax-exempt entities should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. Non-U.S. Unitholders will be subject to U.S. taxes and withholding with respect to their income and gain from owning our units.. Non-U.S. unitholders are generally taxed and subject to income tax filing requirements by the United States on income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business (\"effectively connected income\"). Income allocated to our unitholders and any gain from the sale of our units will generally be considered to be \"effectively connected\" with a U.S. trade or business. As a result, distributions to a Non-U.S. unitholder will be subject to withholding at the highest applicable effective tax rate and a Non-U.S. unitholder who sells or otherwise disposes of a unit will also be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the gain realized from the sale or disposition of that unit.. The 2017 Tax Act imposes a withholding obligation of 10% of the amount realized upon a Non-U.S. unitholder's sale or exchange of an interest in a partnership that is engaged in a U.S. trade or business. However, due to challenges of administering a withholding obligation applicable to open market trading and other complications, the IRS has temporarily suspended the application of this withholding rule to open market transfers of interests in publicly traded partnerships pending promulgation of regulations or other guidance that resolves the challenges. It is not clear if or when such regulations or other guidance will be issued. Non-U.S. unitholders should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. We treat a purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization conventions that may not conform to all aspects of specified Treasury Regulations. A successful challenge to those conventions by the IRS could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to unitholders or could affect the timing of tax benefits or the amount of taxable gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to unitholders' tax returns.. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on. 40    TC PipeLines, LP Annual Report 2017. the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month (the Allocation Date), instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. Similarly, we generally allocate certain deductions for depreciation of capital additions, gain or loss realized on a sale or other disposition of our assets and, in the discretion of the general partner, any other extraordinary item of income, gain, loss or deduction based upon ownership on the Allocation Date. Final Treasury Regulations allow a similar monthly simplifying convention, but such regulations do not specifically authorize all aspects of our proration method. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. A unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of units) may be considered to have disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because there are no specific rules governing the U.S. federal income tax consequence of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units. In that case, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a securities loan are urged to consult a tax advisor to determine whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units.. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the General Partner and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, we must routinely determine the fair market value of our assets.. Although we may, from time to time, consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair market value estimates using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our assets. The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods, calculations or allocations could adversely affect the timing or amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount or character of taxable gain from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. Unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of an investment in our common units.. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. We may be required to withhold income taxes with respect to income allocable or distributions made to our unitholders. In addition, unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in. TC PipeLines, LP Annual Report 2017    41. some or all of the jurisdictions in which we do business or own property and may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements.. We currently own assets in multiple states. Many of these states currently impose a personal income tax on individuals. Generally, these states also impose income taxes on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is the unitholders' responsibility to file all required U.S. federal, state and local tax returns."
