[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Potential investors should be aware that an investment in the Company involves a high degree of risk. There can be no assurance that the Company's investment objective will be achieved or that an investor will receive a return of its capital. In addition, there will be occasions when the Investment Adviser and its affiliates may encounter potential conflicts of interest in connection with the Company. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. The following considerations, in addition to the considerations set forth elsewhere herein, should be carefully evaluated before making an investment in the Company. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and operating result could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the NAV and the trading price of our common stock and the trading price, if any, of any other securities that we may issue could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business and Structure. Capital markets may experience periods of disruption and instability. These market conditions may materially and adversely affect debt and equity capital markets in the United States and abroad, which may in the future have a negative impact on our business and operations.. From time to time, capital markets may experience periods of disruption and instability. During such periods of market disruption and instability, we and other companies in the financial services sector may have limited access, if available, to alternative markets for debt and equity capital. Equity capital may be difficult to raise because, subject to some limited exceptions which will apply to us as a BDC, we will generally not be able to issue additional shares of our common stock at a price less than NAV without first obtaining approval for such issuance from our stockholders and our Independent Directors. In addition, our ability to incur indebtedness (including by issuing preferred stock) is limited by applicable regulations such that our asset coverage, as defined in the Investment Company Act, must equal at least 200% immediately after each time we incur indebtedness. The debt capital that will be available, if at all, may be at a higher cost and on less favorable terms and conditions in the future. Any inability to raise capital could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Given the extreme volatility and dislocation in the capital markets from time to time, many BDCs have faced, and may in the future face, a challenging environment in which to raise or access capital. In addition, significant changes in the capital markets, including the extreme volatility and disruption from time to time, has had, and may in the future have, a negative effect on the valuations of our investments and on the potential for liquidity events involving these investments. While most of our investments are not publicly traded, applicable accounting standards require us to assume as part of our valuation process that our investments are sold in a principal market to market participants (even if we plan on holding an investment through its maturity). As a result, volatility in the capital markets can adversely affect our investment valuations. Further, the illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if required and to value such investments. As a result, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we will have recorded our investments. An inability to raise capital, and. 21. Table of Contents. any required sale of our investments for liquidity purposes, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results.. Many of the portfolio companies in which we make investments may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay the loans we made to them during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets may increase and the value of our portfolio may decrease during these periods as we are required to record our investments at their current fair value. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our and our portfolio companies' funding costs, limit our and our portfolio companies' access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us or our portfolio companies. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results.. A portfolio company's failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, acceleration of the time when the loans are due and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize the portfolio company's ability to meet its obligations under the debt that we hold. We may incur additional expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we will actually provide significant managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors.. We are dependent upon our Investment Adviser for our future success.. We do not have any employees. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of our Investment Adviser's investment professionals and CDL to source appropriate investments for us. We depend on members of our Investment Adviser's investment team to appropriately analyze our investments and our Investment Adviser's investment committee to approve and monitor our middle market portfolio investments. Our Investment Adviser's investment committee, together with the other members of its investment team, evaluate, negotiate, structure, close and monitor our investments. Our future success will depend on the continued availability of the members of our Investment Adviser's investment committee and the other investment professionals available to our Investment Adviser. Neither we nor our Investment Adviser has employment agreements with these individuals or other key personnel, and we cannot provide any assurance that unforeseen business, medical, personal or other circumstances would not lead any such individual to terminate his or her relationship with us. The loss of Mr. Hart, or any of the other senior investment professionals to which our Investment Adviser has access, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective as well as on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that CGCIM will remain our investment adviser or that we will continue to have access to Carlyle's investment professionals or its information and deal flow. Further, the can be no assurance that CGCIM will replicate its own or Carlyle's historical success, and we caution you that our investment returns could be substantially lower than the returns achieved by other Carlyle-managed funds.. Our financial condition, results of operations and ability to achieve our investment objective depend on our ability to source investments, access financing and manage future growth effectively.. Our ability to achieve our investment objective and to grow depends on our ability to acquire suitable investments and monitor and administer those investments, which depends, in turn, on our Investment Adviser's ability to identify, invest in and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria.. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our Investment Adviser's structuring of the investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us and its ability to access financing for us on acceptable terms. Our Investment Adviser's investment team has substantial responsibilities under the investment advisory agreement between us and our Investment Adviser (the \"Investment Advisory Agreement\") and in connection with managing us and certain other investment funds and accounts advised by our Investment Adviser, and may also be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. These demands on their time, which will increase as the number of investments grow, may distract them or slow the rate of investment. In order for us to grow, Carlyle will need to hire, train, supervise, manage and retain new employees. However, we can offer no assurance that any such investment professionals will contribute effectively to the work of our Investment Adviser. Any failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may need to raise additional capital to grow because we must distribute most of our income.. 22. Table of Contents. We may need additional capital to fund growth in our investments, and a reduction in the availability of new capital could limit our ability to grow. We have elected to be treated, and intend to qualify annually, as a RIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Subchapter M of the Code. To maintain our status as a RIC, among other requirements, we must distribute on a timely basis at least 90% of our investment company taxable income to our stockholders to maintain our RIC status. As a result, any such cash earnings may not be available to fund investment originations or repay maturing debt. We have borrowed under the Facilities and through the issuance of the 2015-1 Notes and in the future may borrow under additional debt facilities from financial institutions. We must continue to issue additional debt and equity securities to fund our growth. If we fail to obtain funds from such sources or from other sources to fund our investments, it could limit our ability to grow, which may have an adverse effect on the value of our securities. We may pursue growth through acquisitions or strategic investments in new businesses. Completion and timing of any such acquisitions or strategic investments may be subject to a number of contingencies and risks. There can be no assurance that the integration of an acquired business will be successful or that an acquired business will prove to be profitable or sustainable.. In addition, as a BDC, our ability to borrow or issue preferred stock may be restricted if our total assets are less than 200% of our total borrowings and preferred stock. Furthermore, equity capital may be difficult to raise because, subject to some limited exceptions, as a BDC, we are generally not able to issue additional shares of our common stock at a price per share less than NAV without first obtaining approval for such issuance from our stockholders and our Independent Directors.. Any failure on our part to maintain our status as a BDC or RIC would reduce our operating flexibility, may hinder our achievement of our investment objective, may limit our investment choices and may subject us to greater regulation.. The Investment Company Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of BDCs and RICs that do not apply to other types of investment vehicles. For example, under the Investment Company Act, we are required as a BDC to invest at least 70% of our total assets in specified types of \"qualifying assets,\" primarily in private U.S. companies or thinly-traded U.S. public companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. In addition, in order to continue to qualify as a RIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we are required to satisfy certain source-of-income, diversification and distribution requirements. These constraints, among others, may hinder our ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and to achieve our investment objective. See Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K \"Business - Election to be Taxed as a RIC.\". Furthermore, any failure to comply with the requirements imposed on us as a BDC by the Investment Company Act could cause the SEC to bring an enforcement action against us and/or expose us to claims of private litigants. In addition, upon approval of a majority of our outstanding voting securities as required by the Investment Company Act, we may elect to withdraw our status as a BDC. If we decide to withdraw our election, or if we otherwise fail to qualify, or maintain our qualification, as a BDC, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company that is required to register under the Investment Company Act, which would subject us to additional regulatory restrictions, significantly decrease our operating flexibility and could significantly increase our cost of doing business. In addition, any such failure could cause an event of default under our outstanding indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect our ability to, and the way in which we will, raise additional capital. As a BDC, the necessity of raising additional capital may expose us to risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage.. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as \"senior securities,\" up to the maximum amount permitted by the Investment Company Act. In addition, we may seek to securitize certain of our loans. Under the provisions of the Investment Company Act, we are permitted, as a BDC, to issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage ratio, as defined in the Investment Company Act, equals at least 200% of total assets less all liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities, after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test, which may prohibit us from paying dividends and could prevent us from maintaining our status as a RIC or may prohibit us from repurchasing shares of our common stock. If that happens, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. Accordingly, any failure to satisfy this test could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. As of December 31, 2017, our asset coverage calculated in accordance with the Investment Company Act was 234.86%. Also, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness would not be available for distributions to our common stockholders. Furthermore, as a result of issuing senior securities, our common stockholders would also be exposed to typical risks associated with increased leverage, including an increased risk of loss resulting from increased indebtedness.. 23. Table of Contents. If we issue preferred stock, the preferred stock would rank \"senior\" to common stock in our capital structure, preferred stockholders would have separate voting rights on certain matters and might have other rights, preferences, or privileges more favorable than those of our common stockholders, and the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in their best interest.. We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below the NAV per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the then-current NAV per share of our common stock if our Board determines that such sale is in the best interests of us and our stockholders and our stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price that, in the determination of our Board of Directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock, or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, then the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time will decrease, and holders of our common stock might experience dilution.. We borrow money, which magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing in us.. As part of our business strategy, we, including through our wholly owned subsidiaries, borrow from and may in the future issue additional senior debt securities to banks, insurance companies and other lenders. Holders of these loans or senior securities would have fixed-dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our stockholders. If the value of our assets decreases, leverage will cause our NAV to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have without leverage. Similarly, any decrease in our income would cause our net income to decline more sharply than it would have if we had not borrowed. This decline could negatively affect our ability to make dividend payments on our common stock.. Our ability to service our borrowings depends largely on our financial performance and is subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. In addition, our management fees are payable based on our gross assets, including assets acquired through the use of leverage (but excluding cash and any temporary investments in cash-equivalents), which may give our Investment Adviser an incentive to use leverage to make additional investments. See \" - We may be obligated to pay our Investment Adviser incentive compensation even if we incur a loss.\" The amount of leverage that we employ will depend on our Investment Adviser's and our Board of Directors' assessment of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain credit at all or on terms acceptable to us.. In addition to having fixed-dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders, obligations to lenders may be secured by a first priority security interest in our portfolio of investments and cash. In the case of a liquidation event, those lenders would receive proceeds to the extent of their security interest before any distributions are made to our stockholders. In addition, as the holder of the preferred interests issued by the 2015-1 Issuer (the \"2015-1 Issuer Preferred Interests\") on the closing date of the 2015-1 Debt Securitization in exchange for our contribution to the 2015-1 Issuer of the initial closing date loan portfolio (i.e., the subordinated class of the 2015-1 Securitization), we may be required to absorb losses with respect to the 2015-1 Debt Securitization.. Our Facilities and the 2015-1 Notes impose financial and operating covenants that restrict our business activities, remedies on default and similar matters. As of December 31, 2017, we were in material compliance with the operating and financial covenants of our Facilities and the 2015-1 Notes. However, our continued compliance with these covenants depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, although we believe we will continue to be in compliance, we cannot assure you that we will continue to comply with the covenants in our Facilities and the 2015-1 Notes. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default. If we were unable to obtain a waiver of a default from the lenders or holders of that indebtedness, as applicable, those lenders or holders could accelerate repayment under that indebtedness, which may result in cross-acceleration of other indebtedness. An acceleration could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Lastly, we may be unable to obtain additional leverage, which would, in turn, affect our return on capital.. As of December 31, 2017, we had a combined $835.9 million of outstanding consolidated indebtedness under our Facilities and 2015-1 Notes. Our annualized interest cost as of December 31, 2017, was 3.52%, excluding fees (such as fees on undrawn amounts and amortization of upfront fees). Since we generally pay interest at a floating rate on our Facilities and 2015-1 Notes, an increase in interest rates will generally increase our borrowing costs.. 24. Table of Contents. The following table illustrates the effect of leverage on returns from an investment in our common stock assuming various annual returns on our portfolio, net of expenses. The calculations in the table below are hypothetical, and actual returns may be higher or lower than those appearing in the table below.. Assumed Return on Our Portfolio (Net of Expenses)   (10)% (5)% 0% 5% 10% Corresponding return to common stockholder (1)    (20.54)%    (11.58)%    (2.61)%    6.35%    15.32%. (1) Assumes, as of December 31, 2017, (i) $2,021.4 million in total assets, (ii) $835.9 million in outstanding indebtedness, (iii) $1,127 million in net assets and (iv) weighted average interest rate, excluding fees (such as fees on undrawn amounts and amortization of financing costs), of 3.52%.. Based on an outstanding indebtedness of $835.9 million as of December 31, 2017, and the weighted average effective annual interest rate, excluding fees (such as fees on undrawn amounts and amortization of financing costs), of 3.52% as of that date, our investment portfolio at fair value would have had to produce an annual return of approximately 1.46% to cover annual interest payments on the outstanding debt. For more information on our indebtedness, see Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources.\". Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial conditions or results of operations.. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facilities or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to repay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before it matures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets or seeking additional equity. We cannot assure you that any such actions, if necessary, could be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or on terms that would not be disadvantageous to our stockholders or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements.. Changes in interest rates may increase our cost of capital, reduce the ability of our portfolio companies to service their debt obligations and decrease our net investment income.. General interest rate fluctuations and changes in credit spreads on floating rate loans may have a substantial negative impact on our investments and investment opportunities and, accordingly, may have a material adverse effect on our rate of return on invested capital, our net investment income and our NAV. Substantially all of our debt investments have variable interest rates that reset periodically based on benchmarks such as the London Interbank Offered Rate (\"LIBOR\" or \"L\") and the U.S. Prime Rate (\"Prime Rate\" or \"P\"), so an increase in interest rates from their historically low present levels may make it more difficult for our portfolio companies to service their obligations under the debt investments that we will hold. Rising interest rates could also cause portfolio companies to shift cash from other productive uses to the payment of interest, which may have a material adverse effect on their business and operations and could, over time, lead to increased defaults. In addition, on July 27, 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit LIBOR rates after 2021. At this time, it is not possible to predict the effect of any such changes, any establishment of alternative reference rates or any other reforms to LIBOR that may be enacted in the United Kingdom or elsewhere. The elimination of LIBOR or any other changes or reforms to the determination or supervision of LIBOR could have an adverse impact on the market for or value of any LIBOR-linked securities, loans, and other financial obligations or extensions of credit held by or due to us or on our overall financial condition or results of operations. It is unclear how increased regulatory oversight and changes in the method for determining LIBOR may affect the value of the financial obligations to be held by or issued to us that are linked to LIBOR, or how such changes could affect our results of operations or financial condition.. Furthermore, to the extent we borrow money to make investments, our net investment income depends, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest those funds. As a result, we can offer no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income to the extent we use debt to finance our investments. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds would increase, which could reduce our net investment income.. In addition, a rise in the general level of interest rates can be expected to lead to higher interest rates applicable to our debt investments. Accordingly, an increase in interest rates would make it easier for us to meet or exceed the incentive fee. 25. Table of Contents. hurdle rate in our Investment Advisory Agreement and may result in a substantial increase in the amount of incentive fees payable to our Investment Adviser with respect to our pre-incentive fee net investment income.. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results.. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including, the pace at which investments are made, the interest rate payable on the debt securities we acquire, the default rate on such securities, rates of repayment, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses and changes in unrealized appreciation or depreciation, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods.. There are significant potential conflicts of interest, including the management of other investment funds and accounts by our Investment Adviser, which could impact our investment returns.. Our executive officers and directors, other current and future principals of our Investment Adviser and certain members of our Investment Adviser's investment committee may serve as officers, directors or principals of other entities and affiliates of our Investment Adviser and funds managed by our affiliates that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do. Currently, our executive officers, as well as the other principals of our Investment Adviser manage other funds affiliated with Carlyle, including other existing and future affiliated BDCs, including TCG BDC II, Inc. (\"BDC II\"). In addition, our Investment Adviser's investment team has responsibilities for sourcing and managing U.S. middle market debt investments for certain other investment funds and accounts. Accordingly, they have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which may not be in the best interests of, or may be adverse to the interests of, us or our stockholders. Although the professional staff of our Investment Adviser will devote as much time to our management as appropriate to enable our Investment Adviser to perform its duties in accordance with the Investment Advisory Agreement, the investment professionals of our Investment Adviser may have conflicts in allocating their time and services among us, on the one hand, and investment vehicles managed by Carlyle or one or more of its affiliates on the other hand.. Our Investment Adviser may face conflicts in allocating investment opportunities between us and affiliated investment vehicles that have overlapping objectives with ours. Although our Investment Adviser will endeavor to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner in accordance with its allocation policies and procedures, it is possible that, in the future, we may not be given the opportunity to participate in investments made by investment funds managed by our Investment Adviser or an investment manager affiliated with our Investment Adviser, including Carlyle.. We and our affiliates may own investments at different levels of a portfolio company's capital structure or otherwise own different classes of a portfolio company's securities, which may give rise to conflicts of interest or perceived conflicts of interest. Conflicts may also arise because portfolio decisions regarding our portfolio may benefit our affiliates. Our affiliates may pursue or enforce rights with respect to one of our portfolio companies, and those activities may have an adverse effect on us.. As a result of the expansion of Carlyle's platform into various lines of business in the alternative asset management industry, Carlyle is subject to a number of actual and potential conflicts of interest and subject to greater regulatory oversight than that to which it would otherwise be subject if it had just one line of business. In addition, as Carlyle expands its platform, the allocation of investment opportunities among its investment funds, including us, is expected to become more complex. In addressing these conflicts and regulatory requirements across Carlyle's various businesses, Carlyle has and may continue to implement certain policies and procedures (for example, information barriers). In addition, we may come into possession of material non-public information with respect to issuers in which we may be considering making an investment. As a consequence, we may be precluded from providing such information or other ideas to other funds affiliated with Carlyle that benefit from such information or we may be precluded from otherwise consummating a contemplated investment. To the extent we or any other funds affiliated with Carlyle fail to appropriately deal with any such conflicts, it could negatively impact our reputation or Carlyle's reputation and our ability to raise additional funds and the willingness of counterparties to do business with us or result in potential litigation against us.. In the ordinary course of business, we may enter into transactions with affiliates and portfolio companies that may be considered related party transactions. We have implemented certain policies and procedures whereby certain of our executive officers screen each of our transactions for any possible affiliations between the proposed portfolio investment, us and other affiliated persons, including our Investment Adviser, stockholders that own more than 5% of us, employees, officers and directors of us and our Investment Adviser and certain persons directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under common control with the foregoing persons. We will not enter into any agreements unless and until we are satisfied that doing. 26. Table of Contents. so will not raise concerns under the Investment Company Act or, if such concerns exist, we have taken appropriate actions to seek Board of Directors review and approval or SEC exemptive relief for such transaction.. In the course of our investing activities, we pay management and incentive fees to our Investment Adviser and reimburse our Investment Adviser for certain expenses it incurs in accordance with our Investment Advisory Agreement. As a result, investors in our common stock invest on a \"gross\" basis and receive distributions on a \"net\" basis after expenses, resulting in a lower rate of return than an investor might achieve through direct investments. Accordingly, there may be times when the senior management team of our Investment Adviser has interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict.. In addition, we pay our Administrator, an affiliate of our Investment Adviser, its costs and expenses and our allocable portion of overhead incurred by it in performing its obligations under the Administration Agreement, including, compensation paid to or compensatory distributions received by our officers (including our Chief Compliance Officer and Chief Financial Officer) and their respective staff who provide services to us, operations staff who provide services to us, and internal audit staff in their role of performing our Sarbanes-Oxley Act internal control assessment. These arrangements create conflicts of interest that our Board of Directors monitors.. We may be obligated to pay our Investment Adviser incentive compensation even if we incur a loss.. Our Investment Adviser is entitled to incentive compensation for each calendar quarter in an amount equal to a percentage of the excess of our pre-incentive fee net investment income for that quarter (before deducting incentive compensation) above a performance threshold for that quarter. In calculating our performance threshold, we use net assets which results in a lower hurdle rate than if we used gross assets like we do for determining our base management fee. Our pre-incentive fee net investment income for incentive compensation purposes excludes realized and unrealized capital losses and depreciation that we may incur in the calendar quarter, even if such capital losses or depreciation result in a net loss on our statement of operations for that quarter. Thus, we may be required to pay our Investment Adviser incentive compensation for a calendar quarter even if there is a decline in the value of our portfolio or we incur a net loss for that quarter.. Our fee structure may induce our Investment Adviser to pursue speculative investments and incur leverage, and investors may bear the cost of multiple levels of fees and expenses.. The incentive fees payable by us to our Investment Adviser may create an incentive for our Investment Adviser to pursue investments on our behalf that are riskier or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The incentive fees payable to our Investment Adviser are calculated based on a percentage of our return on invested capital. This may encourage our Investment Adviser to use leverage to increase the return on our investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would impair the value of our securities. In addition, our Investment Adviser receives the incentive fees based, in part, upon net capital gains realized on our investments. Unlike that portion of the incentive fees based on income, there is no hurdle rate applicable to the portion of the incentive fees based on net capital gains. As a result, our Investment Adviser may have a tendency to invest more capital in investments that are likely to result in capital gains as compared to income producing securities. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns.. The \"catch-up\" portion of the incentive fees may encourage our Investment Adviser to accelerate or defer interest payable by portfolio companies from one calendar quarter to another, potentially resulting in fluctuations in timing and dividend amounts.. Moreover, because the base management fees payable to our Investment Adviser are payable based on our gross assets, including those assets acquired through the use of leverage, our Investment Adviser has a financial incentive to incur leverage which may not be consistent with our stockholders' interests.. We may invest, to the extent permitted by law, in the securities and instruments of other investment companies, including private funds, and, to the extent we so invest, bear our ratable share of any such investment company's expenses, including management and performance fees. We also remain obligated to pay management and incentive fees to our Investment Adviser with respect to the assets invested in the securities and instruments of other investment companies. With respect to each of these investments, each of our stockholders bears his or her share of the management and incentive fees of our Investment Adviser as well as indirectly bearing the management and performance fees and other expenses of any investment companies in which we invest.. 27. Table of Contents. We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to maintain our qualification as a RIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Subchapter M of the Code.. Although we have elected to be treated, and intend to qualify annually, as a RIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Subchapter M of the Code, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain RIC status. To maintain RIC status and be relieved of U.S. federal income taxes on income and gains distributed to our stockholders, we must, among other things, have in effect an election to be treated, and continue to qualify, as a BDC under the Investment Company Act at all times during each taxable year and meet the Annual Distribution Requirement, the 90% Gross Income Test and the Diversification Tests (each as defined and explained more fully in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K \"Business - Election to be Taxed as a RIC.\").. If we fail to maintain our RIC status for any reason, and we do not qualify for certain relief provisions under the Code, we would be subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax (and any applicable U.S. state and local taxes) regardless of whether we make any distributions to our stockholders. In this event, the resulting taxes and any resulting penalties could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of our income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions to our stockholders, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. For additional discussion regarding the tax implications of a RIC, see Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K \"Business - Election to be Taxed as a RIC.\". We may have difficulty satisfying the Annual Distribution Requirement in order to maintain our RIC status if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income.. We may make investments that produce income that is not matched by a corresponding cash receipt by us, such as original issue discount (\"OID\"), which may arise, for example, if we receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan, or payment-in-kind (\"PIK\") interest representing contractual interest added to the loan principal balance and due at the end of the loan term. Any such income would be treated as income earned by us and therefore would be subject to the Annual Distribution Requirement (as defined and explained more fully in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K \"Business - Election to be Taxed as a RIC.\"). Such investments may require us to borrow money or dispose of other securities in order to comply with those requirements. However, under the Investment Company Act, we are not permitted to make distributions to our stockholders while our debt obligations and other senior securities are outstanding unless an \"asset coverage\" test is met. See Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K \"Business - Regulation - Indebtedness and Senior Securities.\". If we are prohibited from making distributions or are unable to raise additional debt or equity capital or sell assets to make distributions, we may not be able to make sufficient distributions to satisfy the Annual Distribution Requirement, and therefore would not be able to maintain our qualification as a RIC. Additionally, we may make investments that result in the recognition of ordinary income rather than capital gain, or that prevent us from accruing a long-term holding period. These investments may prevent us from making capital gain distributions. See Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K \"Business - Election to be Taxed as a RIC.\". A portion of our income and fees may not be qualifying income for purposes of the income source requirement.. Some of the income and fees that we may recognize will not satisfy the income source requirement applicable to RICs. In order to ensure that such income and fees do not disqualify us as a RIC for a failure to satisfy such requirement, we may be required to recognize such income and fees indirectly through one or more entities treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such corporations will be required to pay U.S. corporate income tax on their earnings, which ultimately will reduce the amount of income available for distribution.. If we are not treated as a \"publicly offered regulated investment company,\" as defined in the Code, certain U.S. stockholders will be treated as having received a dividend from us in the amount of such U.S. stockholders' allocable share of the management and incentive fees paid to our Investment Adviser and certain of our other expenses, and these fees and expenses will be treated as miscellaneous itemized deductions of such U.S. stockholders.. We expect to be treated as a \"publicly offered regulated investment company\" as a result of shares of our common stock being treated as regularly traded on an established securities market. However, we cannot assure you that we will be treated as a publicly offered regulated investment company for all years. If we are not treated as a publicly offered regulated investment company for any calendar year, each U.S. stockholder that is an individual, trust or estate will be treated as having received a dividend from us in the amount of such U.S. stockholder's allocable share of the management and incentive fees paid to our Investment Adviser and certain of our other expenses for the calendar year, and these fees and expenses will be treated as miscellaneous itemized deductions of such U.S. stockholder. Miscellaneous itemized deductions generally are deductible by a U.S. stockholder that is an individual, trust or estate only to the extent that the aggregate of such U.S.. 28. Table of Contents. stockholder's miscellaneous itemized deductions exceeds 2% of such U.S. stockholder's adjusted gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, are not deductible for purposes of the alternative minimum tax and are subject to the overall limitation on itemized deductions under the Code. See Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K \"Business - Election to be Taxed as a RIC.\". After we ceased to be an emerging growth company on December 31, 2017, we became obligated to maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting. We may not complete our analysis of our internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner, or our internal controls may not be determined to be effective, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our securities.. After we ceased to be an emerging growth company on December 31, 2017, we became required to comply with the independent auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. Complying with Section 404 requires a rigorous compliance program as well as adequate time and resources. We may not be able to complete our internal control evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. If we are not able to implement the applicable requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our operations, financial reporting or financial results could be adversely affected. Matters impacting our internal controls may cause us to be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis and thereby subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions by the SEC or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules, and result in a breach of the covenants under the agreements governing any of our financing arrangements. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Confidence in the reliability of our financial statements could also suffer if we or our independent registered public accounting firm were to report a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. This could materially adversely affect us and lead to a decline in the price of our securities.. Our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations.. Certain investors are limited in their ability to make significant investments in us.. Private funds that are excluded from the definition of \"investment company\" either pursuant to Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act are restricted from acquiring directly or through a controlled entity more than 3% of our total outstanding voting stock (measured at the time of the acquisition). Investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act and BDCs are also subject to this restriction as well as other limitations under the Investment Company Act that would restrict the amount that they are able to invest in our securities. As a result, certain investors will be limited in their ability to make significant investments in us at a time that they might desire to do so.. Our Board of Directors is authorized to reclassify any unissued shares of common stock into one or more classes of preferred stock, which could convey special rights and privileges to its owners.. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law (\"MGCL\") and our charter (our \"Charter\"), our Board of Directors is authorized to classify and reclassify any authorized but unissued shares of stock into one or more classes of stock, including preferred stock. Prior to the issuance of shares of each class or series, the Board of Directors is required by Maryland law and our Charter to set the terms, preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or other distributions, qualifications and terms or conditions of redemption for each class or series. Thus, the Board of Directors could authorize the issuance of shares of preferred stock with terms and conditions which could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in their best interest. The cost of any such reclassification would be borne by our existing common stockholders. Certain matters under the Investment Company Act require the separate vote of the holders of any issued and outstanding preferred stock. For example, holders of preferred stock would vote separately from the holders of common stock on a proposal to cease operations as a BDC. In addition, the Investment Company Act provides that holders of preferred stock are entitled to vote separately from holders of common stock to elect two preferred stock directors. We currently have no plans to issue preferred stock, but may determine to do so in the future. The issuance of preferred stock convertible into shares of common stock might also reduce the net income per share and NAV per share of our common stock upon conversion, provided, that we will only be permitted to issue such convertible preferred stock to the extent we comply with the requirements of Section 61 of the Investment Company Act, including obtaining common stockholder approval. In addition, under the Investment Company Act, participating preferred stock and preferred stock constitutes a \"senior security\" for purposes of the 200% asset coverage test. These effects, among others, could have an adverse effect on an investment in our common stock.. 29. Table of Contents. Provisions of the MGCL and of our Charter and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock.. The MGCL and our Charter and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or make more difficult a change in control of us or the removal of our directors. We are subject to the Maryland Business Combination Act (\"MBCA\"), subject to any applicable requirements of the Investment Company Act. Our Board of Directors has adopted a resolution exempting from the MBCA any business combination between us and any other person, subject to prior approval of such business combination by our Board of Directors, including approval by a majority of our Independent Directors. If the resolution exempting business combinations is repealed or our Board of Directors does not approve a business combination, the MBCA may discourage third parties from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating such an offer. Our bylaws exempt from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act (\"Control Share Act\") acquisitions of our stock by any person. If we amend our bylaws to repeal the exemption from the Control Share Act, the Control Share Act also may make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating such a transaction. However, we will amend our bylaws to be subject to the Control Share Act only if our Board of Directors determines that it would be in our best interests and if the SEC staff does not object to our determination that our being subject to the Control Share Act does not conflict with the Investment Company Act.. We have also adopted measures that may make it difficult for a third party to obtain control of us, including provisions of our Charter classifying our Board of Directors in three classes serving staggered three-year terms, and authorizing our Board of Directors to classify or reclassify shares of our stock in one or more classes or series, to cause the issuance of additional shares of our stock, to amend our Charter without stockholder approval and to increase or decrease the number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue. These provisions, as well as other provisions of our Charter and bylaws, may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders.. Our Board of Directors may change our investment objective, operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval.. Our Board of Directors has the authority to modify or, if applicable, waive our investment objectives, operating policies and strategies without prior notice (except as required by the Investment Company Act) and without stockholder approval. In addition, none of our investment policies is fundamental and any of them may be changed without stockholder approval. However, absent stockholder approval, we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or withdraw our election as, a BDC. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current investment objectives, operating policies or strategies would have on our business, operating results and value of our stock. Nevertheless, the effects may adversely affect our business and impact our ability to make distributions.. A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, as well as cyber-attacks could significantly disrupt our business or negatively affect our liquidity, financial condition or results of operations.. We rely heavily on our and third parties' financial, accounting, information and other data processing systems. Any failure or interruption of those systems, including as a result of the termination of an agreement with any third-party service providers, could cause delays or other problems in our activities. We face various security threats on a regular basis, including ongoing cyber-security threats to and attacks on our information technology infrastructure that are intended to gain access to our proprietary information, destroy data or disable, degrade or sabotage our systems. The result of these incidents may include disrupted operations, misstated or unreliable financial data, liability for stolen assets or information, increased cybersecurity protection and insurance costs, litigation and damage to our business relationships.. We operate in a business that is highly dependent on information systems and technology. Carlyle has implemented processes, procedures and internal controls to help mitigate cybersecurity risks and cyber intrusions, but these measures, as well as our increased awareness of the nature and extent of a risk of a cyber-incident, do not guarantee that a cyber-incident will not occur and/or that our financial results, operations or confidential information will not be negatively impacted by such an incident. The information systems and technology that we rely on may not continue to be able to accommodate our growth, and the cost of maintaining such systems may increase from its current level. Such a failure to accommodate growth, or an increase in costs related to such information systems, could have a material adverse effect on us.. Changes in laws or regulations governing our business or the businesses of our portfolio companies, changes in the interpretation thereof or newly enacted laws or regulations, and any failure by us or our portfolio companies to comply with these laws or regulations may adversely affect our business and the businesses of our portfolio companies.. 30. Table of Contents. We and our portfolio companies are subject to laws and regulations at the U.S. federal, state and local levels and, in some cases, foreign levels. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may change from time to time, and new laws, regulations and interpretations may also come into effect. Any such new or changed laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business or the business of our portfolio companies. The legal, tax and regulatory environment for BDCs, investment advisers and the instruments that they utilize (including derivative instruments) is continuously evolving. In addition, there is significant uncertainty regarding recently enacted legislation (including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\") and the regulations that have recently been adopted and future regulations that may or may not be adopted pursuant to such legislation) and, consequently, the full impact that such legislation will ultimately have on us and the markets in which we trade and invest is not fully known. Such uncertainty and any resulting confusion may itself be detrimental to the efficient functioning of the markets and the success of certain investment strategies.. In addition, as private equity firms become more influential participants in the U.S. and global financial markets and economy generally, there recently has been pressure for greater governmental scrutiny and/or regulation of the private equity industry. It is uncertain as to what form and in what jurisdictions such enhanced scrutiny and/or regulation, if any, on the private equity industry may ultimately take. Therefore, there can be no assurance as to whether any such scrutiny or initiatives will have an adverse impact on the private equity industry, including our ability to effect operating improvements or restructurings of our portfolio companies or otherwise achieve our objectives.. Over the last several years, there also has been an increase in regulatory attention to the extension of credit outside of the traditional banking sector, raising the possibility that some portion of the non-bank financial sector will be subject to new regulation. While it cannot be known at this time whether any regulation will be implemented or what form it will take, increased regulation of non-bank credit extension could negatively impact our operating results or financial condition, impose additional costs on us, intensify the regulatory supervision of us or otherwise adversely affect our business.. On February 3, 2017, President Trump signed Executive Order 13772 (the \"Executive Order\") announcing the new Administration's policy to regulate the U.S. financial system in a manner consistent with certain \"Core Principles,\" including regulation that is efficient, effective and appropriately tailored. The Executive Order directed the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the heads of the member agencies of the Financial Stability Oversight Council, to report to the President on the extent to which existing laws, regulations and other government policies promote the Core Principles and to identify any laws, regulations or other government policies that inhibit federal regulation of the U.S. financial system.. On June 12, 2017, the U.S. Department of the Treasury (\"Treasury\") published the first of several reports in response to the Executive Order on the depository system covering banks and other savings institutions. On October 6, 2017, the Treasury released a second report outlining ways to streamline and reform the U.S. regulatory system for capital markets, followed by a third report, on October 26, 2017, examining the current regulatory framework for the asset management and insurance industries. Subsequent reports are expected to address: retail and institutional investment products and vehicles, as well as non - bank financial institutions, financial technology and financial innovation.. On June 8, 2017, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Financial Choice Act, which includes legislation intended to repeal or replace substantial portions of the Dodd - Frank Act. Among other things, the proposed law would repeal the Volcker Rule limiting certain proprietary investment and trading activities by banks, eliminate the authority of regulators to designate asset managers and other large non - bank institutions as \"systemically important financial institutions\" or \"SIFIs,\" and repeal the Department of Labor (\"DOL\") \"fiduciary rule\" governing standards for dealing with retirement plans until the SEC issues standards for similar dealings by broker - dealers and limiting the substance of any subsequent DOL rule to the SEC standards. The bill has been referred to the Senate, where it is unlikely to pass in its current form. On November 16, 2017, a bipartisan group of U.S. Senators, led by Senate Banking Committee Chairman, introduced the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Senate Regulatory Relief Bill\"). The Senate Regulatory Relief Bill would revise various post-crisis regulatory requirements and provide targeted regulatory relief to certain financial institutions. Among the most significant of its proposed amendments to the Dodd-Frank Act are a substantial increase in the $50 billion asset threshold for automatic regulation of bank holding companies as SIFIs, an exemption from the Volcker Rule for insured depository institutions with less than $10 billion in consolidated assets and lower levels of trading assets and liabilities, as well as amendments to the liquidity leverage ratio and supplementary leverage ratio requirements. On December 5, 2017, the Senate Banking Committee approved the Senate Regulatory Relief Bill. If the legislation is adopted in the Senate, it remains unclear whether and how it would be reconciled with its House-passed counterpart, the Financial Choice Act, which is substantially different in scope and substance, and ultimately approved by both chambers of Congress.. At this time it is unclear what impact the Administration's policies in response to the Executive Order, the Financial Choice Act, the Senate Regulatory Relief Bill or other pending legislation and developments will have on regulations that affect our, our competitors' and our portfolio companies' businesses.. 31. Table of Contents. Pending legislation may allow us to incur additional leverage.. As a BDC, under the Investment Company Act we generally are not permitted to incur borrowings, issue debt securities or issue preferred stock unless immediately after the borrowing or issuance the ratio of total assets (less total liabilities other than indebtedness) to total indebtedness plus preferred stock, is at least 200%. Recent legislation introduced in the U.S. Congress, if passed, would modify this section of the Investment Company Act and increase the amount of debt that BDCs may incur by modifying the asset coverage percentage from 200% to 150%. As a result, we may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future and you may face increased investment risk. In addition, since our base management fee is calculated as a percentage of the value of our gross assets, including assets acquired through the incurrence of debt but excluding cash and cash equivalents, our base management fee expenses will increase if we incur additional indebtedness.. Recently passed tax reform, Public Law No. 115-97 (the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\"), and other changes in laws or regulations related to U.S. federal income taxation could adversely affect us and our investors.. On December 22, 2017, the President signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which significantly revised the Internal Revenue Code, including, a reduction in the corporate income tax rate, a new limitation on the deductibility of interest expense, and significant changes to the taxation of income earned from foreign sources and foreign subsidiaries. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act also authorizes the IRS to issue regulations with respect to the new provisions. While we do not anticipate any immediate material impact on our calculation of NAV, we cannot predict how the changes in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or regulations or other guidance issued under it, might affect us or our business in the long-term. The impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on our business in the long-term may differ, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations and assumptions that management has made, guidance that may be issued and actions that management may take as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The impact of this legislation on holders of our securities is uncertain and could be adverse. We urge the purchasers of our securities in any offering made pursuant to this prospectus and an accompanying prospectus supplement to consult with their tax advisors with respect to such legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in our securities.. Our Investment Adviser, Administrator and sub-administrators are able to resign upon 60 days' notice, and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations.. Our Investment Adviser, our Administrator and our sub-administrators have the right to resign under the Investment Advisory Agreement, the Administration Agreement and the Sub-Administration Agreements, respectively, upon 60 days' written notice, whether a replacement has been found or not. If any of them resigns, it may be difficult to find a replacement with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If a replacement is not found quickly, our business, results of operation and financial condition as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected and the value of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and investment activities is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by our Investment Adviser, our Administrator and their affiliates, including certain of our sub-administrators. Even if a comparable service provider or individuals performing such services are retained, whether internal or external, their integration into our business and lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, the termination by our Investment Adviser of our Investment Advisory Agreement for any reason will be an event of default under the SPV Credit Facility, which could result in the immediate acceleration of the amounts due under the SPV Credit Facility. Similarly, it will be an event of default under the Credit Facility if our Investment Adviser or an affiliate of our Investment Adviser ceases to manage us, which could result in the immediate acceleration of the amounts due under the Credit Facility.. Our Investment Adviser's liability is limited under the Investment Advisory Agreement, and we are required to indemnify our Investment Adviser against certain liabilities, which may lead our Investment Adviser to act in a riskier manner on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account.. Our Investment Adviser has not assumed any responsibility to us other than to render the services described in the Investment Advisory Agreement, and it will not be responsible for any action of our Board of Directors in declining to follow our Investment Adviser's advice or recommendations. Pursuant to the Investment Advisory Agreement, our Investment Adviser and its members and their respective officers, managers, partners, agents, employees, controlling persons and members and any other person or entities affiliated with it will not be liable to us for their acts under the Investment Advisory Agreement, absent willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard in the performance of their duties. We have agreed to indemnify, defend and protect our Investment Adviser and its members and their respective officers, managers, partners, agents,. 32. Table of Contents. employees, controlling persons and members and any other person or entities affiliated with it with respect to all damages, liabilities, costs and expenses arising out of or otherwise based upon the performance of any of our Investment Adviser's duties or obligations under the Investment Advisory Agreement or otherwise as an Investment Adviser for us, and not arising out of willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard in the performance of their duties under the Investment Advisory and Agreement. These protections may lead our Investment Adviser to act in a riskier manner when acting on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. See \"Risks Related to Our Business and Structure - Our fee structure may induce our Investment Adviser to pursue speculative investments and incur leverage, and investors may bear the cost of multiple levels of fees and expenses.\". We are subject to certain risks as a result of our direct interest in the 2015-1 Issuer Preferred Interests.. Because each of the SPV and the 2015-1 Issuer is disregarded as an entity separate from its owner for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the sale or contribution by the SPV to us and the sale or contribution by us to the 2015-1 Issuer as part of the 2015-1 Debt Securitization did not constitute a taxable event for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the U.S. Internal Revenue Service were to take a contrary position, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. The 2015-1 Issuer Preferred Interests are subordinated obligations of the 2015-1 Issuer.. The 2015-1 Issuer is the residual claimant on funds, if any, remaining after holders of all classes of the 2015-1 Notes have been paid in full on each payment date or upon maturity of the 2015-1 Notes under the 2015-1 Debt Securitization documents. The 2015-1 Issuer Preferred Interests represent all of the equity interest in the 2015-1 Issuer and, as the holder of the 2015-1 Issuer Preferred Interests, we may receive distributions, if any, only to the extent that the 2015-1 Issuer makes distributions out of funds remaining after holders of all classes of the 2015-1 Notes have been paid in full on each payment date any amounts due and owing on such payment date or upon maturity of the 2015-1 Notes. There is no guarantee that we will receive any distributions as the holders of the 2015-1 Issuer Preferred Interests.. The interests of holders of the 2015-1 Notes issued by the 2015-1 Issuer may not be aligned with our interests.. The 2015-1 Notes are the debt obligations ranking senior in right of payment to our interests. As such, there are circumstances in which the interests of holders of the 2015-1 Notes may not be aligned with our interests. For example, under the terms of the 2015-1 Issuer, holders of the 2015-1 Notes have the right to receive payments of principal and interest prior to distribution to our interests.. For as long as the 2015-1 Notes remain outstanding, holders of the 2015-1 Notes have the right to act, in certain circumstances, with respect to the portfolio loans in ways that may benefit their interests but not the interests of holders of the 2015-1 Issuer Preferred Interests, including by exercising remedies under the indenture governing the 2015-1 Notes (the \"2015-1 Indenture\").. If an event of default has occurred and acceleration occurs in accordance with the terms of the 2015-1 Indenture, the 2015-1 Notes then outstanding will be paid in full before any further payment or distribution to the 2015-1 Issuer Preferred Interests. In addition, if an event of default occurs, holders of a majority of the 2015-1 Notes then outstanding will be entitled to determine the remedies to be exercised under the 2015-1 Indenture, subject to the terms of the 2015-1 Indenture. For example, upon the occurrence of an event of default with respect to the notes issued by the 2015-1 Issuer, the trustee or holders of a majority of the 2015-1 Notes then outstanding may declare the principal, together with any accrued interest, of all the 2015-1 Notes to be immediately due and payable. This would have the effect of accelerating the principal on such notes, triggering a repayment obligation on the part of the 2015-1 Issuer. If at such time the portfolio loans of the 2015-1 Issuer were not performing well, the 2015-1 Issuer may not have sufficient proceeds available to enable the trustee under the 2015-1 Indenture to pay a distribution to holders of the 2015-1 Issuer Preferred Interests.. Remedies pursued by the holders of the 2015-1 Notes could be adverse to the interests of the holders of the 2015-1 Issuer Preferred Interests, and the holders of the 2015-1 Notes have no obligation to consider any possible adverse effect on such other interests. Thus, any remedies pursued by the holders of the 2015-1 Notes may not be in our best interests and we may not receive payments or distributions upon an acceleration of the 2015-1 Notes. Any failure of the 2015-1 Issuer to make distributions on the 2015-1 Issuer Preferred Interests we hold, directly or indirectly, whether as a result of an event of default or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and may result in an inability of us to make distributions sufficient to allow for us to qualify as a RIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. 33. Table of Contents. The 2015-1 Issuer may fail to meet certain asset coverage tests.. Under the documents governing the 2015-1 Debt Securitization, there are two coverage tests applicable to the 2015-1 Notes.. The first such test compares the amount of interest received on the portfolio loans held by the 2015-1 Issuer to the amount of interest payable in respect of the 2015-1 Notes. To meet this first test, interest received on the portfolio loans must equal at least 120% of the interest payable in respect of the 2015-1 Notes issued by the 2015-1 Issuer.. The second such test compares the adjusted collateral principal amount of the portfolio loans of the 2015-1 Debt Securitization to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the 2015-1 Notes. To meet this second test at any time, the adjusted collateral principal amount of the portfolio loans must equal at least 140% of the outstanding principal amount of the 2015-1 Notes.. If any coverage test with respect to the 2015-1 Notes is not met, proceeds from the portfolio of loans that otherwise would have been distributed to the holders of the 2015-1 Issuer Preferred Interests will instead be used to redeem first the 2015-1 Notes, to the extent necessary to satisfy the applicable asset coverage tests on a pro forma basis after giving effect to all payments made in respect of the 2015-1 Notes, which we refer to as a mandatory redemption, or to obtain the necessary ratings confirmation. There is no guarantee that the 2015-1 Notes will meet either of these coverage tests, and thus, we may not receive distributions as the holders of the 2015-1 Issuer Preferred Interests.. We may not receive cash from the 2015-1 Issuer.. We receive cash from the 2015-1 Issuer only to the extent of payments on the distributions, if any, with respect to the 2015-1 Issuer Preferred Interests as permitted under the 2015-1 Debt Securitization. The 2015-1 Issuer may only make payments on the 2015-1 Issuer Preferred Interests to the extent permitted by the payment priority provisions of the 2015-1 Indenture, as applicable, which generally provide, distribution to Preferred Interests holder may not be made on any payment date unless all amounts owing under the 2015-1 Notes are paid in full. There is no guarantee that we will receive any distributions as the holders of the 2015-1 Issuer Preferred Interests.. In addition, if the 2015-1 Issuer does not meet the asset coverage tests or the interest coverage test set forth in the documents governing the 2015-1 Debt Securitization, cash would be diverted to first pay the 2015-1 Notes in amounts sufficient to cause such tests to be satisfied. Even if we do not receive cash directly from the 2015-1 Issuer, such amount will still be treated as income subject to our requirement to distribute 90% of our net investment income to our shareholders. Therefore, in the event that we fail to receive cash directly from the 2015-1 Issuer, we could be unable to make such distributions in amounts sufficient to maintain our status as a RIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or at all.. We may be required to assume liabilities of the 2015-1 Issuer and are indirectly liable for certain representations and warranties in connection with the 2015-1 Debt Securitization.. As part of the 2015-1 Debt Securitization, we entered into a contribution agreement under which we are required to repurchase any loan (or participation interest therein) which was sold to the 2015-1 Issuer in breach of any representation or warranty made by us with respect to such loan on the date such loan was sold. To the extent we fail to satisfy any such repurchase obligation, the trustee of the 2015-1 Debt Securitization may, on behalf of the 2015-1 Issuer, bring an action against us to enforce these repurchase obligations.. The structure of the 2015-1 Debt Securitization is intended to prevent, in the event of our bankruptcy, the consolidation of the 2015-1 Issuer with our operations. If the true sale of the assets in the 2015-1 Debt Securitization were not respected in the event of our insolvency, a trustee or debtor-in-possession might reclaim the assets of the 2015-1 Issuer for our estate. However, in doing so, we would become directly liable for all of the indebtedness then outstanding under the 2015-1 Debt Securitization, which would equal the full amount of debt of the 2015-1 Issuer reflected on our consolidated balance sheet.. In addition, in connection with 2015-1 Debt Securitization, the Company has made customary representations, warranties and covenants to the 2015-1 Issuer. We remain liable for any breach of such representations for the life of the 2015-1 Debt Securitization.. Risks Related to Our Investments. 34. Table of Contents. Our portfolio companies may prepay loans, which may have the effect of reducing our investment income if the returned capital cannot be invested in transactions with equal or greater yields.. Loans are generally prepayable at any time, most of them at no premium to par. We are generally unable to predict the rate and frequency of such repayments. Whether a loan is prepaid will depend both on the continued positive performance of the portfolio company and the existence of favorable financing market conditions that allow such portfolio company the ability to replace existing financing with less expensive capital. In periods of rising interest rates, the risk of prepayment of floating rate loans may increase if other financing sources are available. As market conditions change frequently, we will often be unable to predict when, and if, this may be possible for each of our portfolio companies. In the case of some of these loans, having the loan called early may have the effect of reducing our actual investment income below our expected investment income if the capital returned cannot be invested in transactions with equal or greater yields.. The financial projections of our portfolio companies could prove inaccurate.. We generally evaluate the capital structure of portfolio companies on the basis of financial projections prepared by the management of such portfolio companies. These projected operating results are normally based primarily on judgments of the management of the portfolio companies. In all cases, projections are only estimates of future results that are based upon assumptions made at the time that the projections are developed. General economic conditions, which are not predictable with accuracy, along with other factors may cause actual performance to fall short of the financial projections that were used to establish a given portfolio company's capital structure. Because of the leverage that is typically employed by our portfolio companies, this could cause a substantial decrease in the value of our investment in the portfolio company. The inaccuracy of financial projections could thus cause our performance to fall short of our expectations.. Our portfolio securities typically do not have a readily available market price and, in such a case, we will value these securities at fair value as determined in good faith under procedures adopted by our Board of Directors, which valuation is inherently subjective and may not reflect what we may actually realize from the sale of the investment.. Substantially all of our portfolio investments are in the form of debt investments that are not publicly traded and are less liquid than publicly traded securities. The fair value of these securities is not readily determinable, and the due diligence process that our Investment Adviser undertakes in connection with our investments may not reveal all the facts that may be relevant in connection with such investment. We value these investments on at least a quarterly basis in accordance with our valuation policy, which is at all times consistent with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (\"US GAAP\"). Our Board of Directors utilizes the services of a third-party valuation firm to aid it in determining the fair value of these investments as well as the recommendations of our Investment Adviser's investment professionals, which are based upon the most recent portfolio company financial statements available and projected financial results of each portfolio company. The Board of Directors discusses valuations and determines the fair value in good faith based on the input of our Investment Adviser and the third-party valuation firm. The participation of our Investment Adviser in our valuation process, and the indirect pecuniary interest in our Investment Adviser by the Interested Directors on our Board of Directors, could result in a conflict of interest, since the management fee is based on our gross assets and also because our Investment Adviser is receiving performance-based incentive fees.. The factors that are considered in the fair value pricing of our investments include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company's ability to make payments and its earnings, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparisons to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow, relevant credit market indices, and other relevant factors. When an external event such as a purchase transaction, public offering or subsequent equity sale occurs, we consider the pricing indicated by the external event to corroborate our valuation. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private investments and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. Also, since these valuations are, to a large extent, based on estimates, comparisons and qualitative evaluations of private information, it could make it more difficult for investors to value accurately our investments and could lead to undervaluation or overvaluation of our securities. In addition, the valuation of these types of securities may result in substantial write-downs and earnings volatility. If our Investment Adviser is unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. Also, privately held companies frequently have less diverse product lines and smaller market presence than larger competitors.. Decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments are recorded as unrealized depreciation. The effect of all of these factors on our portfolio can reduce our NAV by increasing net unrealized depreciation in our portfolio. Depending. 35. Table of Contents. on market conditions, we could incur substantial realized losses and may suffer unrealized losses, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our NAV as of a particular date may be materially greater than or less than the value that would be realized if our assets were to be liquidated as of such date. For example, if we were required to sell a certain asset or all or a substantial portion of our assets on a particular date, the actual price that we would realize upon the disposition of such asset or assets could be materially less than the value of such asset or assets as reflected in our NAV. Volatile market conditions could also cause reduced liquidity in the market for certain assets, which could result in liquidation values that are materially less than the values of such assets as reflected in our NAV.. Our investments are risky and speculative.. We invest primarily in loans to middle market companies whose debt, if rated, is rated below investment grade and, if not rated, would likely be rated below investment grade if it were rated. Investments rated below investment grade are generally considered higher risk than investment grade instruments. Bonds that are rated below investment grade are sometimes referred to as \"high yield bonds\" or \"junk bonds.\" Exposure to below investment grade instruments involves certain risks, including speculation with respect to the borrower's capacity to pay interest and repay principal. In our first lien senior secured loans, the fact that a loan is secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the loan's terms, or at all, or that we will be able to collect on the loan should we be forced to enforce our remedies. To the extent we hold second lien senior secured loans and junior debt investments, holders of first lien loans may be repaid before us in the event of a bankruptcy or other insolvency proceeding. This may result in an above average amount of risk and loss of principal. Unitranche loans generally allow the borrower to make a large lump sum payment of principal at the end of the loan term, and there is a heightened risk of loss if the borrower is unable to pay the lump sum or refinance the amount owed at maturity. When we invest in loans, we may acquire equity securities as well. However, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience.. In addition, investing in middle market companies involves a number of significant risks, including:.  these companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing on any guarantees or security we may have obtained in connection with our investment;.  they typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns;.  they are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on a portfolio company and, in turn, on us;.  there is generally little public information about these companies. These companies and their financial information are usually not subject to the Exchange Act and other regulations that govern public companies, and we may be unable to uncover all material information about these companies, which may prevent us from making a fully informed investment decision and cause us to lose money on our investments;.  they generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. In addition, our executive officers, directors and our Investment Adviser may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies;.  changes in laws and regulations, as well as their interpretations, may adversely affect their business, financial structure or prospects; and.  they may have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs, which may limit their ability to grow or to repay their outstanding indebtedness upon maturity.. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities, and compete with investment vehicles sponsored or advised by our affiliates.. 36. Table of Contents. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we target in middle market companies. We compete with other BDCs, public and private funds, commercial and investment banks, commercial finance companies, and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity funds, some of which may be affiliates of us. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the Investment Company Act and the Code impose on us. The competitive pressures we face may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective.. We do not seek to compete primarily based on the interest rates we offer, and we believe that some of our competitors may make loans with interest rates that are comparable to or lower than the rates we offer. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure. However, if we match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure, we may experience decreased net interest income and increased risk of credit loss.. We may not replicate our historical performance or the historical success of Carlyle.. We cannot provide any assurance that we will replicate our own historical performance, the historical success of Carlyle or the historical performance of other companies that our Investment Adviser and our investment team advised in the past. Accordingly, our investment returns could be substantially lower than the returns achieved by the Company in the past, other Carlyle-managed funds or by other clients of our Investment Adviser. We can offer no assurance that our Investment Adviser will be able to continue to implement our investment objective with the same degree of success as it has had in the past.. Our ability to enter into transactions with Carlyle and our other affiliates is restricted.. As a BDC, we are required to comply with certain regulatory requirements. We and any company controlled by us, on the one hand, and our upstream affiliates, or our Investment Adviser and its affiliates, on the other hand, are prohibited under the Investment Company Act from knowingly participating in certain transactions without the prior approval of our Independent Directors (as defined below) and, in some cases, the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding voting securities is our upstream affiliate for purposes of the Investment Company Act, and we or a company controlled by us are generally prohibited from buying or selling any security (other than our securities) from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our Independent Directors and so long as such person does not own more than 25% of our outstanding voting securities or otherwise control us. We or a company controlled by us are prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to our Investment Adviser or its affiliates, or any person who owns more than 25% of our voting securities or is otherwise deemed to control, be controlled by, or be under common control with, us, with such persons, absent the prior approval of the SEC.. The Investment Company Act also prohibits certain \"joint\" transactions with our upstream affiliates, or our Investment Adviser or its affiliates, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of our Independent Directors and, in some cases, the SEC (other than in certain limited situations pursuant to current regulatory guidance as described below). The analysis of whether a particular transaction constitutes a joint transaction requires a review of the relevant facts and circumstances then existing. The SEC has granted us Exemptive Relief that permits us and certain present and future funds advised by our Investment Adviser and certain other present and future investment advisers controlling, controlled by or under common control with our Investment Adviser to co-invest in suitable negotiated investments. Co-investments made under the Exemptive Relief are subject to compliance with the conditions and other requirements contained in the Exemptive Relief, which could limit our ability to participate in a co-investment transaction. In addition to co-investing pursuant to our Exemptive Relief, we may also co-invest with funds managed by Carlyle or any of its downstream affiliates, subject to compliance with applicable law and regulations, existing regulatory guidance, our Investment Adviser's allocation procedures and Carlyle's other allocation policies and procedures, where applicable. For example, we may invest alongside such investors consistent with guidance promulgated by the SEC staff permitting us and an affiliated person to purchase interests in a single class of privately placed securities so long as certain conditions are met, including that we negotiate no term other than price. We may, in certain cases, also make investments in securities owned by affiliates that we acquire from non-affiliates. In such circumstances, our ability to participate in any restructuring of such investment or other transaction involving the issuer of such investment may be limited, and as a result, we may realize a loss on such investments that might have been prevented or reduced had we not been restricted in participating in such restructuring or other transaction.. 37. Table of Contents. To the extent we make investments in restructurings and reorganizations they may be subject to greater regulatory and legal risks than other traditional direct investments in portfolio companies.. We may make investments in restructurings that involve, or otherwise invest in the debt securities of, companies that are experiencing or are expected to experience severe financial difficulties. These severe financial difficulties may never be overcome and may cause such companies to become subject to bankruptcy proceedings. As such, these investments could subject us to certain additional potential liabilities that may exceed the value of our original investment therein. The level of analytical sophistication, both financial and legal, necessary for successful financing to companies experiencing significant business and financial difficulties is unusually high.. Our ability to extend financial commitments may be limited.. The SEC has proposed a new Rule 18f-4 under the Investment Company Act that, if enacted in the form proposed, could adversely impact the way we and other BDCs do business. In addition to imposing restrictions on the use of derivatives, the rule would generally limit our financial commitments to portfolio companies, together with our exposure to other transactions involving senior securities entered into by us other than in reliance of the rule, to not more than 150 percent of our NAV. We cannot assure you when or if the proposed rule will be adopted by the SEC, and if adopted, whether the final rule will constrain our ability to extend financial commitments.. Our portfolio may be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries, which will subject us to a risk of significant loss if any of these companies defaults on its obligations under any of its debt instruments or if there is a downturn in a particular industry.. We are classified as a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act, which means that we are not limited by the Investment Company Act with respect to the proportion of our assets that we may invest in securities of a single issuer, excluding limitations on investments in other investment companies. Although we do not intend to focus our investments in any specific industries, our portfolio may be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries. Beyond the asset diversification requirements associated with our qualification as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code and under the Facilities and 2015-1 Notes, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and while we do not target any specific industries, our investments may be concentrated in relatively few industries. As a result, the aggregate returns we will realize may be significantly adversely affected if a small number of investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of one or more investments. Additionally, a downturn in any particular industry in which we are invested could also significantly impact our aggregate returns.. Our portfolio companies may be highly leveraged.. Some of our portfolio companies may be highly leveraged, which may have adverse consequences to these companies and to us as an investor. These companies may be subject to restrictive financial and operating covenants and the leverage may impair these companies' ability to finance their future operations and capital needs. As a result, these companies' flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to take advantage of business opportunities may be limited. Further, a leveraged company's income and net assets will tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than if borrowed money were not used. Leveraged companies may enter into bankruptcy proceedings at higher rates than companies that are not leveraged.. Our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our investments.. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as \"follow-on\" investments to:.  increase or maintain in whole or in part our equity ownership percentage;.  exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing; or.  attempt to preserve or enhance the value of our investment.. We may elect not to make follow-on investments, may be constrained in our ability to employ available funds, or otherwise may lack sufficient funds to make those investments. We have the discretion to make any follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources. However, doing so could be placing even more capital at risk in existing portfolio companies.. 38. Table of Contents. The failure to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful investment. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we may not want to increase our concentration of risk, because we prefer other opportunities or because we are inhibited by compliance with BDC requirements or the desire to maintain our tax status.. Declines in the prices of corporate debt securities and illiquidity in the corporate debt markets may adversely affect the fair value of our portfolio investments, reducing our NAV through increased net unrealized depreciation.. As a BDC, we are required to account for our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at fair value as determined in good faith by or under the direction of our Board of Directors. Decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments are recorded as unrealized depreciation. Depending on market conditions, we may face similar losses, which could reduce our NAV and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Because we generally do not hold controlling equity interests in our portfolio companies, we may not be in a position to exercise control over our portfolio companies or to prevent decisions by management of our portfolio companies that could decrease the value of our investments.. Although we may do so in the future, currently we do not intend to hold controlling equity positions in our portfolio companies. Accordingly, we may not be able to control decisions relating to a minority equity investment, including decisions relating to the management and operation of the portfolio company and the timing and nature of any exit. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and that the management and/or stockholders of a portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity of the investments that we typically hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company and may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could suffer as a result.. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, some of our investments in such companies.. To the extent we invest in second lien, mezzanine or other instruments, our portfolio companies typically may be permitted to incur other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, such debt instruments. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we will be entitled to receive payments in respect of the debt securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. In such cases, after repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have sufficient remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company.. The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing the debt investments we make in our portfolio companies with senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements that we enter into with the holders of senior debt. Under such an intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the first priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral will be at the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the first priority liens: the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral; the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings; the approval of amendments to collateral documents; releases of liens on the collateral; and waivers of past defaults under collateral documents. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if our rights are adversely affected.. We may also make unsecured loans to portfolio companies. Liens on such portfolio companies' collateral, if any, will secure the portfolio company's obligations under its outstanding secured debt and may secure certain future debt that is permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under its secured loan agreements. The holders of obligations secured by such liens will generally control the liquidation of, and be entitled to receive proceeds from, any realization of such collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of such collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from sales of such collateral would be sufficient to satisfy our unsecured loan obligations after payment in full of all secured loan obligations. If such proceeds were not sufficient to repay the outstanding secured loan obligations, then our. 39. Table of Contents. unsecured claims would rank equally with the unpaid portion of such secured creditors' claims against the portfolio company's remaining assets, if any.. We may expose ourselves to risks if we engage in hedging transactions.. If we engage in hedging transactions, we may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. We may utilize instruments such as forward contracts, credit default swaps, currency options and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in currency exchange rates, credit risk premiums, and market interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the underlying portfolio positions should increase. It may not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation at an acceptable price that is generally anticipated. The success of any hedging transactions we may enter into will depend on our ability to correctly predict movements in currencies and interest rates. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce currency exchange rate and interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the effect of the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. In addition, it may not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against currency fluctuations affecting the value of securities denominated in non-U.S. currencies because the value of those securities is likely to fluctuate as a result of factors not related to currency fluctuations. Income derived from hedging transactions is generally not eligible to be distributed to non-U.S. stockholders free from U.S. withholding tax. We may determine not to hedge against particular risks, including if we determine that available hedging transactions are not available at an appropriate price.. There are certain risks associated with holding debt obligations that have original issue discount or payment-in-kind interest.. OID may arise if we hold securities issued at a discount or in certain other circumstances. OID and PIK create the risk that incentive fees will be paid to the Investment Adviser based on non-cash accruals that ultimately may not be realized, while the Investment Adviser will be under no obligation to reimburse us for these fees.. The higher interest rates of OID instruments reflect the payment deferral and increased credit risk associated with these instruments, and OID instruments generally represent a significantly higher credit risk than coupon loans. Even if the accounting conditions for income accrual are met, the borrower could still default when our actual collection is supposed to occur at the maturity of the obligation.. OID instruments may have unreliable valuations because their continuing accruals require continuing judgments about the collectability of the deferred payments and the value of any associated collateral. OID income may also create uncertainty about the source of our cash dividends.. For accounting purposes, any cash dividends to stockholders representing OID income are not treated as coming from paid-in capital, even if the cash to pay them comes from the proceeds of issuances of our common stock. As a result, despite the fact that a dividend representing OID income could be paid out of amounts invested by our stockholders, the Investment Company Act does not require that stockholders be given notice of this fact by reporting it as a return of capital.. PIK interest has the effect of generating investment income at a compounding rate, thereby further increasing the incentive fees payable to the Investment Adviser. Similarly, all things being equal, the deferral associated with PIK interest also increases the loan-to-value ratio at a compounding rate.. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock and Other Securities That We May Issue. Investing in our securities may involve a high degree of risk.. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objective may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investment options and volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies may be highly. 40. Table of Contents. speculative and aggressive, and therefore an investment in our securities may not be suitable for someone with lower risk tolerance.. The market price of our securities may fluctuate significantly.. The market price and liquidity of the market for our common stock and any other securities that we may issue may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include:.  significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of BDCs or other companies in our sector, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies;.  price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;.  the inclusion or exclusion of our securities from certain indices;.  changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs or BDCs;.  any loss of RIC or BDC status;.  changes in earnings or perceived changes or variations in operating results;.  changes or perceived changes in the value of our portfolio of investments;.  changes in accounting guidelines governing valuation of our investments;.  any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts;.  the inability of our Investment Adviser to employ additional experienced investment professionals or the departure of any of our Investment Adviser's key personnel;.  short-selling pressure with respect to shares of our common stock or BDCs generally;.  future sales of our securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for our common stock or the conversion of such securities;.  uncertainty surrounding the strength of the U.S. economic recovery and the policies of the new presidential administration;.  concerns regarding European sovereign debt;.  fluctuations in base interest rates, such as LIBOR, EURIBOR, the Federal Funds Rate or the Prime Rate;.  operating performance of companies comparable to us;.  general economic trends and other external factors; and.  loss of a major funding source.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. If our stock price fluctuates significantly, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources from our business.. Our shares of common stock have traded at a discount from NAV and may do so again, which could limit our ability to raise additional equity capital.. We cannot assure you that a trading market for our common stock can be sustained. In addition, we cannot predict the prices at which our common stock will trade. Shares of closed-end investment companies, including BDCs, frequently trade at a discount from NAV and our common stock may also be discounted in the market. This characteristic of closed-end investment companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our NAV per share may decline. We cannot predict whether our common stock will trade at, above or below NAV. The risk of loss associated with this characteristic of closed-end management investment companies may be greater for investors expecting to sell shares of common stock purchased in the offering soon after the offering. Recently, the stocks of BDCs as an industry, including from time to time shares of our common stock, have traded below NAV and during much of 2009 traded at near historic lows as a result of concerns over liquidity, leverage restrictions and distribution requirements. See \"Risk Factors - Risks Relating to Our Business and Structure - Capital markets may experience periods of disruption and instability. These market conditions may materially and adversely affect debt and. 41. Table of Contents. equity capital markets in the United States and abroad, which may in the future have a negative impact on our business and operations.\". In addition, when our common stock is trading below its NAV, we will generally not be able to sell additional shares of our common stock to the public at its market price without, among other things, first obtaining the requisite approval of our stockholders. However, certain of our stockholders who received shares of our common stock prior to our initial public offering (our \"pre-IPO investors\") may obligate us to initiate certain registered underwritten secondary offerings on behalf of such pre-IPO investors, and it is possible that shares will be sold in such offerings at prices below NAV. We believe any such sales will be perceived negatively by the market and could negatively impact future trading prices for our common stock.. We may in the future determine to issue preferred stock, which could adversely affect the market value of our common stock.. The issuance of shares of preferred stock with dividend or conversion rights, liquidation preferences or other economic terms favorable to the holders of preferred stock could adversely affect the market price for our common stock by making an investment in the common stock less attractive. In addition, the dividends on any preferred stock we issue must be cumulative. Payment of dividends and repayment of the liquidation preference of preferred stock must take preference over any dividends or other payments to our common stockholders, and holders of preferred stock are not subject to any of our expenses or losses and are not entitled to participate in any income or appreciation in excess of their stated preference (other than convertible preferred stock that converts into common stock). In addition, under the Investment Company Act, preferred stock constitutes a \"senior security\" for purposes of the 200% asset coverage test.. Your interest in us may be diluted if you do not fully exercise your subscription rights in any rights offering. In addition, if the subscription price is less than our NAV per share, then you will experience an immediate dilution of the aggregate NAV of your shares.. In the event we issue subscription rights, stockholders who do not fully exercise their subscription rights should expect that they will, at the completion of a rights offering pursuant to this prospectus and a prospectus supplement, own a smaller proportional interest in us than would otherwise be the case if they fully exercised their rights. We cannot state precisely the amount of any such dilution in share ownership because we do not know at this time what proportion of the shares will be purchased as a result of such rights offering.. In addition, if the subscription price is less than the NAV per share of our common stock, then our stockholders would experience an immediate dilution of the aggregate NAV of their shares as a result of the offering. The amount of any decrease in NAV is not predictable because it is not known at this time what the subscription price and NAV per share will be on the expiration date of a rights offering or what proportion of the shares will be purchased as a result of such rights offering. Such dilution could be substantial.. Purchases of our common stock under the 10b5-1 Plan may have resulted in the price of our common stock being higher than the price that otherwise might have existed in the open market.. Certain individuals affiliated with Carlyle adopted a 10b5-1 plan (the \"10b5-1 Plan\") in accordance with Rules 10b5-1 and 10b-18 under the Exchange Act, under which the participants would buy up to $15 million in the aggregate of our common stock in the open market during the period beginning July 17, 2017 and ending on the earlier of the date on which the capital committed to the 10b5-1 Plan had been exhausted or June 19, 2018, subject to certain conditions. The 10b5-1 Plan required the plan administrator to purchase shares of common stock when the market price per share was below the Company's most recently reported NAV per share (including any updates, corrections or adjustments publicly announced by the Company to any previously announced NAV per share). These activities may have had the effect of maintaining the market price of our common stock or retarding a decline in the market price of the common stock, and, as a result, the price of our common stock may have been higher than the price that otherwise might have existed in the open market. As of February 22, 2018, the capital committed to the 10b5-1 Plan had been exhausted, and the 10b5-1 Plan was terminated in accordance with its terms.. 42. Table of Contents. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. As of February 27, 2018, we had 62,568,651 shares of common stock outstanding. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our common stock. If this occurs and continues, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities should we desire to do so.. Our stockholders will experience dilution in their ownership percentage if they opt out of our dividend reinvestment plan.. Our dividend reinvestment plan is an \"opt out\" dividend reinvestment plan, pursuant to which all dividends declared in cash payable to stockholders that do not elect to receive their distributions in cash are automatically reinvested in shares of our common stock, rather than receiving cash. As a result, our stockholders that \"opt out\" of our dividend reinvestment plan may experience dilution in their ownership percentage of our common stock over time. See Part II, Item 5 of this Form 10-K \"Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities - Price Range of Common Stock\" and \"Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities - Distribution Policy\" for a description of our dividend policy and obligations.. There is a risk that our stockholders may not receive distributions or that our distributions may not grow over time and a portion of our distributions to you may be a return of capital for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. We intend to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. If we declare a dividend and if enough stockholders opt to receive cash distributions rather than participate in our dividend reinvestment plan, we may be forced to sell some of our investments in order to make cash dividend payments. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a BDC, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. The Facilities may also limit our ability to declare dividends if we default under certain provisions. Further, if we invest a greater amount of assets in equity securities that do not pay current dividends, it could reduce the amount available for distribution. See Part II, Item 5 of this Form 10-K \"Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities - Price Range of Common Stock.\" The above referenced restrictions on distributions may also inhibit our ability to make required interest payments to holders of our debt, which may cause a default under the terms of our debt agreements. Such a default could materially increase our cost of raising capital, as well as cause us to incur penalties under the terms of our debt agreements.. The distributions we pay to our stockholders in a year may exceed our taxable income for that year and, accordingly, a portion of such distributions may constitute a return of capital for U.S. federal income tax purposes that would reduce a stockholder's adjusted tax basis in its shares of our common stock or preferred stock and correspondingly increase such stockholder's gain, or reduce such stockholder's loss, on disposition of such shares. Distributions in excess of a stockholder's adjusted tax basis in its shares of our common stock or preferred stock will constitute capital gains to such stockholder.. Our stockholders may receive shares of our common stock as dividends, which could result in adverse tax consequences to them.. In order to satisfy the Annual Distribution Requirement applicable to RICs, we will have the ability to declare a large portion of a dividend in shares of our common stock instead of in cash. As long as a portion of such dividend is paid in cash and certain requirements are met, the entire distribution generally will be treated as a dividend for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, a stockholder generally would be taxed on 100% of the fair market value of the dividend on the date the dividend is received by the stockholder in the same manner as a cash dividend, even though most of the dividend was paid in shares of our common stock. If a U.S. stockholder sells the common stock that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the trading price (if any) of our common stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in common stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders were to determine to sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price (if any) of our common stock. It is unclear whether and to what extent we will be able to pay taxable dividends of the type described in this paragraph.. 43. Table of Contents. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize taxable income before or without receiving cash representing such income.. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will include in our taxable income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as OID or accruals on a contingent payment debt instrument, which may occur if we receive warrants in connection with the origination of a loan or possibly in other circumstances or contracted PIK interest, which generally represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. Such OID and PIK interest will be included in our taxable income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in our taxable income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash. The credit risk associated with the collectability of deferred payments may be increased as and when a portfolio company increases the amount of interest on which it is deferring cash payment through deferred interest features. Our investments with a deferred interest feature may represent a higher credit risk than loans for which interest must be paid in full in cash on a regular basis. For example, even if the accounting conditions for income accrual are met, the borrower could still default when our actual collection is scheduled to occur upon maturity of the obligation.. Because in certain cases we may recognize taxable income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty making distributions to our stockholders that will be sufficient to enable us to meet the Annual Distribution Requirement necessary for us to maintain our status as a RIC. Accordingly, we may need to sell some of our assets at times and/or at prices that we would not consider advantageous, we may need to raise additional equity or debt capital, or we may need to forego new investment opportunities or otherwise take actions that are disadvantageous to our business (or be unable to take actions that are advantageous to our business) to enable us to make distributions to our stockholders that will be sufficient to enable us to meet the Annual Distribution Requirement. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources to meet the Annual Distribution Requirement, we may fail to qualify for the U.S. federal income tax benefits allowable to RICs and, thus, become subject to a corporate-level U.S. federal income tax (and any applicable U.S. state and local taxes). Alternatively, we may, with the consent of all our shareholders, designate an amount as a consent dividend (i.e., a deemed dividend). In that case, although we would not distribute any actual cash to our shareholders, the consent dividend would be treated like an actual dividend under the Code for all U.S. federal income tax purposes. This would allow us to deduct the amount of the consent dividend and our shareholders would be required to include that amount in income as if it were actually distributed. For additional discussion regarding the tax implications of a RIC, see Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K \"Business - Election to be Taxed as a RIC.\". Non-U.S. stockholders may be subject to withholding of U.S. federal income tax on dividends we pay.. Distributions of our \"investment company taxable income\" to a non-U.S. stockholder that are not effectively connected with the non-U.S. stockholder's conduct of a trade or business within the United States may be subject to withholding of U.S. federal income tax at a 30% rate (or lower rate provided by an applicable income tax treaty) to the extent of our current or accumulated earnings and profits. Certain properly designated dividends are generally exempt from withholding of U.S. federal income tax, including certain dividends that are paid in respect of our (i) \"qualified net interest income\" (generally, our U.S.-source interest income, other than certain contingent interest and interest from obligations of a corporation or partnership in which we or the non-U.S. stockholder are at least a 10% shareholder, reduced by expenses that are allocable to such income) or (ii) \"qualified short-term capital gains\" (generally, the excess of our net short-term capital gain over our long-term capital loss for such taxable year), and certain other requirements were satisfied. No assurance can be given as to whether any of our distributions will be eligible for this exemption from withholding of U.S. federal income tax or, if eligible, will be designated as such by us. See Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K \"Business - Election to be Taxed as a RIC.\". The trading market or market value of any publicly issued debt securities may fluctuate.. Any publicly issued debt securities that we may issue may or may not have an established trading market. We cannot assure you that a trading market for any publicly issued debt securities will ever develop or be maintained if developed. In addition to our creditworthiness, many factors may materially adversely affect the trading market for, and market value of, any publicly issued debt securities. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:.  the time remaining to the maturity of such debt securities;.  the outstanding principal amount of debt securities with terms identical to such debt securities;.  the ratings assigned by national statistical ratings agencies;.  the general economic environment;.  the supply of such debt securities trading in the secondary market, if any;. 44. Table of Contents.  the redemption or repayment features, if any, of such debt securities;.  the level, direction and volatility of market interest rates generally; and.  market rates of interest higher or lower than rates borne by such debt securities.. In addition, there may be a limited number of buyers if and when a decision is made to sell your debt securities. This too may materially adversely affect the market value of such debt securities or the trading market for the debt securities.. Terms relating to redemption may materially adversely affect your return on any debt securities that we may issue.. If such debt securities are redeemable at our option, we may choose to redeem such debt securities at times when prevailing interest rates are lower than the interest rate paid on the debt securities. In addition, if such debt securities are subject to mandatory redemption, we may be required to redeem the debt securities also at times when prevailing interest rates are lower than the interest rate paid on your debt securities. In this circumstance, an investor may not be able to reinvest the redemption proceeds in a comparable security at an effective interest rate as high as your debt securities being redeemed.. Our credit ratings may not reflect all risks of an investment in any debt securities that we may issue.. Our credit ratings are an assessment by third parties of our ability to pay our obligations. Consequently, real or anticipated changes in our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of our debt securities. Our credit ratings, however, may not reflect the potential impact of risks related to market conditions generally or other factors discussed above on the market value of or trading market for any publicly issued debt securities.. Holders of any preferred stock that we may issue would have the right to elect members of the board of directors and class voting rights on certain matters.. Holders of any preferred stock we might issue, voting separately as a single class, would have the right to elect two members of the board of directors at all times and in the event dividends become two full years in arrears would have the right to elect a majority of the directors until such arrearage is completely eliminated. In addition, preferred stockholders have class voting rights on certain matters, including changes in fundamental investment restrictions and conversion to open-end status, and accordingly can veto any such changes. Restrictions imposed on the declarations and payment of dividends or other distributions to the holders of our common stock and preferred stock, both by the Investment Company Act and by requirements imposed by rating agencies or the terms of our credit facilities, might impair our ability to maintain our qualification as a RIC for federal income tax purposes. While we would intend to redeem our preferred stock to the extent necessary to enable us to distribute our income as required to maintain our qualification as a RIC, there can be no assurance that such actions could be effected in time to meet the tax requirements."
