[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results of operations.  Although the risks described below are those that management believes are the most significant, these are not the only risks facing our company.  Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not deem to be material also may materially affect our business, financial condition or future results of operations.. 12. Table of Contents. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business Operations. Economic conditions and other securities industry risks could adversely affect our business.. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from our securities brokerage business.  Like other securities brokerage businesses, we are directly affected by economic, social and political conditions, broad trends in business and finance and changes in volume and price levels of securities transactions.  Events in global financial markets in recent years resulted in substantial market volatility and increased client trading volume.  However, any sustained downturn in general economic conditions or U.S. equity markets could result in reduced client trading volume and net revenues.  Severe market fluctuations or weak economic conditions could reduce our trading volume and net revenues and have a material adverse effect on our profitability.. We have exposure to interest rate risk.. As a fundamental part of our brokerage business, we invest in interest-earning assets and are obligated on interest-bearing liabilities.  In addition, we earn fees on our FDIC-insured deposit account arrangements with TD Bank USA, N.A. and TD Bank N.A. and with other third-party financial institutions, which are subject to interest rate risk.  During fiscal 2009, the Federal Open Market Committee reduced the federal funds target range to between 0% and 0.25%, where it remained until December 2015 when it started to gradually increase to its current target range of between 1.00% and 1.25%.  In addition, medium- to long-term interest rates have also decreased substantially since fiscal 2009.  This lower interest rate environment has compressed our net interest spread and reduced our spread-based revenues.  Continued uncertainty resulting from U.S. fiscal and political matters, including concerns about federal, state and municipal debt levels, taxes, U.S. debt ratings, immigration policies and international conflicts have impacted and may continue to impact the U.S. and global economic recovery.. Changes in interest rates could affect the interest earned on assets differently than interest paid on liabilities.  A rising interest rate environment generally results in our earning a larger net interest spread.  Conversely, a falling interest rate environment generally results in our earning a smaller net interest spread.  Our most prevalent form of interest rate risk is referred to as \"gap\" risk.  This risk occurs when the interest rates we earn on assets change at a different frequency or amount than the interest rates we pay on liabilities.  For example, in the current low interest rate environment, sharp increases in short-term interest rates could result in net interest spread compression if the yields paid on interest-bearing client balances were to increase faster than our earnings on interest-earning assets.  If we are unable to effectively manage our interest rate risk, changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.. Our brokerage operations have exposure to liquidity risk.. Maintaining adequate liquidity is crucial to our brokerage operations, including key functions such as transaction settlement and margin lending.  We are subject to cash deposit and collateral requirements with clearinghouses such as the DTCC and the OCC, which may fluctuate significantly from time to time based on the nature and size of our clients' trading activity.  Our liquidity needs to support interest-earning assets are primarily met by client cash balances or financing created from our securities lending activities.  A reduction of funds available from these sources may require us to seek other potentially more expensive forms of financing, such as borrowings on our revolving credit facilities.  Our liquidity could be constrained if we are unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms, or at all, due to a variety of unforeseen market disruptions.  Inability to meet our funding needs on a timely basis would have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are exposed to credit risk with clients and counterparties.. We extend margin credit and leverage to clients, which are collateralized by client cash and securities.  We also borrow and lend securities in connection with our broker-dealer business.  A significant portion of our net revenues is derived from interest on margin loans.  By permitting clients to purchase securities on margin and exercise leverage with options and futures positions, we are subject to risks inherent in extending credit, especially during periods of rapidly declining markets in which the value of the collateral held by us could fall below the amount of a client's indebtedness.  In addition, in accordance with regulatory guidelines, we collateralize borrowings of securities by depositing cash or securities with lenders.  Sharp changes in market values of substantial amounts of securities and the failure by parties to the borrowing transactions to honor their commitments could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability.  We also engage in financial transactions with counterparties, including securities. 13. Table of Contents. sold under agreements to repurchase, that expose us to credit losses in the event counterparties cannot meet their obligations.. Our clearing operations expose us to liability for errors in clearing functions.. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries, TDAC and Scottrade, Inc., provide clearing and execution services for our securities brokerage business.  Clearing and execution services include the confirmation, receipt, settlement and delivery functions involved in securities transactions.  Clearing brokers also assume direct responsibility for the possession or control of client securities and other assets and the clearing of client securities transactions.  However, clearing brokers also must rely on third-party clearing organizations, such as the DTCC and the OCC, in settling client securities transactions.  Clearing securities firms, such as TDAC and Scottrade, Inc., are subject to substantially more regulatory control and examination than introducing brokers that rely on others to perform clearing functions.  Errors in performing clearing functions, including clerical and other errors related to the handling of funds and securities held by us on behalf of clients, could lead to regulatory fines and civil penalties as well as losses and liability in related legal proceedings brought by clients and others.. A default by a large financial institution could adversely affect financial markets.. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships among the institutions.  For example, increased centralization of trading activities through particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges is occurring.  This is driven by market forces and by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\") and similar laws in other jurisdictions, and it may increase our concentration of risk with respect to these entities.  As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions.  This is sometimes referred to as \"systemic risk\" and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks and securities firms, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Systems failures, delays and capacity constraints could harm our business.. We receive and process trade orders through a variety of electronic channels, including the Internet, mobile trading applications and our interactive voice response system.  These methods of trading are heavily dependent on the integrity of the electronic systems supporting them.  Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, natural disasters, power loss, computer viruses, distributed denial of service (\"DDOS\") attacks, spurious spam attacks, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events.  It could take several hours or more to restore full functionality following any of these events.  Extraordinary trading volumes could cause our computer systems to operate at an unacceptably slow speed or even fail.  Extraordinary Internet traffic caused by DDOS, spam attacks or extreme market volatility could cause our website or other trading applications to be unavailable or slow to respond.  While we have made significant investments to upgrade the reliability and scalability of our systems and added hardware to address extraordinary Internet traffic, there can be no assurance that our systems will be sufficient to handle such extraordinary circumstances.  Slowness or unavailability may not impact all trading channels evenly, and some trading channels may be impacted while others are not.  Social media and media reports may conflate one channel being unavailable with all channels being unavailable.  We may not be able to project accurately the rate, timing or cost of any increases in our business or to expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner.  Systems failures and delays could occur and could cause, among other things, unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients, substantial losses to our clients, slower system response time resulting in transactions not being processed as quickly as our clients desire, decreased levels of client service and client satisfaction and harm to our reputation.  We are also dependent on the integrity and performance of securities exchanges, clearing houses and other intermediaries to which client orders are routed for execution and settlement.  Systems failures and constraints and transaction errors at such intermediaries could result in delays and erroneous or unanticipated execution prices, cause substantial losses for us and our clients and subject us to claims from our clients for damages.  The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 14. Table of Contents. Failure to protect client data or prevent breaches of our information systems could expose us to liability or reputational damage.. We are dependent on information technology networks and systems to securely process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations and with our clients and vendors.  As the breadth and complexity of this infrastructure continue to grow, the potential risk of security breaches and cyber-attacks increases.  As a financial services company, we are continuously subject to cyber-attacks, DDOS and ransomware attacks, malicious code and computer viruses by activists, hackers, organized crime, foreign state actors and other third parties.  Such breaches could lead to shutdowns or disruptions of our systems, account takeovers and unauthorized gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss, total destruction and disclosure of data and confidential information of ours, our clients, our employees or other third parties, or otherwise materially disrupt our or our clients' or other third parties' network access or business operations.  In addition, vulnerabilities of our external service providers and other third parties could pose security risks to client information.  The secure transmission of confidential information over public networks is also a critical element of our operations.. We, along with the financial services industry in general, have experienced losses related to clients' login and password information being compromised, generally caused by attacks capturing credentials directly from clients themselves, through phishing attacks, clients' use of non-secure public computers or vulnerabilities of clients' private computers and mobile devices.  In 2007, we discovered and eliminated unauthorized code from our computer systems that had allowed an unauthorized third party to retrieve client email addresses, names, addresses and phone numbers from an internal database.  Following the incident, we incurred significant remediation costs.  In addition, in 2013, Scottrade, which we acquired in September 2017, experienced a database breach, and we may not know the full extent of security controls in place at Scottrade.  We are aware of subsequent attempts by other attackers to penetrate our systems using similar techniques and similar attacks against other financial institutions.  Although we have taken steps to reduce the risk of such threats, our risk and exposure to a cyber-attack or related breach remains heightened due to the evolving nature of these threats, our plans to continue to implement mobile access solutions to serve our clients, our routine transmission of sensitive information to third parties, the current global economic and political environment, external extremist parties and other developing factors. If a cyber-attack or similar breach were to occur, we could suffer damage to our reputation and incur significant remediation costs and losses.. In providing services to clients, we manage, utilize and store sensitive and confidential client data, including personal data.  As a result, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as U.S. federal and state laws and foreign regulations governing the protection of personally identifiable information.  These laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number, change frequently and sometimes conflict.  If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to client data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution in one or more jurisdictions.  Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients.  Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems, whether by our employees or third parties, including a cyber-attack by third parties who may deploy viruses, worms or other malicious software programs, could result in negative publicity, significant remediation costs, legal liability, regulatory fines, financial responsibility under our asset protection guarantee to reimburse clients for losses resulting from unauthorized activity in their accounts and damage to our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  In addition, our liability insurance might not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyber-attacks and other related breaches.. Aggressive competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance.. The market for electronic brokerage services is continually evolving and is intensely competitive.  The retail brokerage industry has experienced significant consolidation, which may continue in the future, and which may increase competitive pressures in the industry.  Consolidation could enable other firms to offer a broader range of products and services than we do, or offer them at lower prices.  There has been aggressive price competition in the industry, including various free trade offers and reduced trading commissions.  We expect this competitive environment to continue in the future.  We face direct competition from numerous retail brokerage firms, including E*TRADE Financial Corporation, The Charles Schwab Corporation and Fidelity Investments.  We also encounter competition from the broker-dealer affiliates of established full-commission brokerage firms, such as Merrill Lynch. 15. Table of Contents. and Morgan Stanley, as well as from financial institutions, mutual fund sponsors, online wealth management services and other organizations, some of which provide online brokerage services.  Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, offer a wider range of services and financial products, and have greater name recognition and a more extensive client base than we do.  We believe that the general financial success of companies within the retail securities industry will continue to attract new competitors to the industry, such as banks, software development companies, insurance companies, providers of online financial information and others.  These companies may provide a more comprehensive suite of services than we do or offer services at lower prices.  Increased competition, including pricing pressure, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We will need to introduce new products and services and enhance existing products and services to remain competitive.. Our future success depends in part on our ability to develop and enhance our products and services.  In addition, the adoption of new Internet, networking or telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require us to incur substantial expenditures to enhance or adapt our services or infrastructure.. There are significant technical and financial costs and risks in the development of new or enhanced products and services, including the risk that we might be unable to effectively use new technologies, adapt our services to emerging industry standards or develop, introduce and market enhanced or new products and services.  An inability to develop new products and services, or enhance existing offerings, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.. Advisory services subject us to additional risks.. We provide investment advisory services to investors through our SEC-registered investment advisors, TD Ameritrade, Inc., TD Ameritrade Investment Management, LLC, Scottrade Investment Management, Inc. (\"SIM\") and TradeWise Advisors, Inc. (\"TradeWise\").  TD Ameritrade, Inc. offers AdvisorDirect,® a service that refers a client to an independent RIA.  TD Ameritrade Investment Management, LLC recommends an investment portfolio, through Selective Portfolios® or Essential Portfolios,® based on an investor's objectives, time horizon and risk tolerance.  SIM offers guidance solutions and refers clients to independent RIAs. TradeWise provides an option advisory service for self-directed investors.  The risks associated with these investment advisory activities include those arising from possible conflicts of interest, unsuitable investment recommendations, inadequate due diligence, inadequate disclosure and fraud.  Realization of these risks could lead to liability for client losses, regulatory fines, civil penalties and harm to our reputation and business.. We rely on external service providers to perform certain key functions.. We rely on a number of external service providers for certain key technology, processing, service and support functions.  These include the services of other broker-dealers, market makers, exchanges and clearinghouses to execute and settle client orders.  We contract with external providers for futures and foreign exchange clearing.  External content providers provide us with financial information, market news, charts, option and stock quotes, research reports and other fundamental data that we offer to clients.  These service providers face technological, operational and security risks of their own.  Any significant failures by them, including improper use or disclosure of our confidential client, employee or company information, could interrupt our business, cause us to incur losses and harm our reputation.. We cannot assure that any external service providers will be able to continue to provide these services to meet our current needs in an efficient, cost-effective manner or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs in the future.  Some external service providers have assets that are important to the services they provide us located outside the United States, and their ability to provide these services is subject to risks from unfavorable political, economic, legal or other developments, such as social or political instability, changes in governmental policies or changes in laws and regulations.. An interruption in or the cessation of service by any external service provider as a result of systems failures, capacity constraints, financial constraints or problems, unanticipated trading market closures or for any other reason, and our inability to make alternative arrangements in a smooth and timely manner, if at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 16. Table of Contents. Risk Factors Relating to the Regulatory and Legislative Environment. Legislation has and may continue to result in changes to rules and regulations applicable to our business, which may negatively impact our business and financial results.. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in 2010, requires many federal agencies to adopt new rules and regulations applicable to the financial services industry and also calls for many studies regarding various industry practices.  In particular, the Dodd-Frank Act gives the SEC discretion to adopt rules regarding standards of conduct for broker-dealers providing investment advice to retail customers.  The U.S. Department of Labor (\"DOL\") has enacted regulations changing the definition of who is an investment advice fiduciary under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) and how such advice can be provided to account holders in retirement accounts such as 401(k) plans and Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs).  The DOL regulations deem many of the investment, rollover and asset management recommendations from us to our clients regarding their retirement accounts fiduciary \"investment advice\" under ERISA.  One of the most significant impacts on our business from the DOL regulations and related prohibited transaction exemptions will be the impact on our fee and compensation practices.  These regulations may subject us to an increased risk of class actions and other litigation and regulatory risks.  Additional rulemaking or legislative action could negatively impact our business and financial results.  While we have not yet been required to make other material changes to our business or operations as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act or other rulemaking or legislative action, it is not certain what the scope of future rulemaking or interpretive guidance from the SEC, FINRA, DOL, banking regulators and other regulatory agencies may be, how the courts and regulators might interpret these rules and what impact this will have on our compliance costs, business, operations and profitability.. Our profitability could also be affected by new or modified laws that impact the business and financial communities generally, including changes to the laws governing banking, the securities market, fiduciary duties, conflicts of interest, taxation, electronic commerce, client privacy and security of client data.  As existing laws are modified and new laws are implemented, we may incur significant additional costs and have to expend a significant amount of time to develop and integrate appropriate systems and procedures to ensure initial and continuing compliance with such laws.  These additional costs could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.. Failure to comply with net capital requirements could adversely affect our business.. The SEC, FINRA, CFTC, NFA and various other regulatory agencies have stringent rules with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital by securities broker-dealers, FCMs and FDMs.  Net capital is a measure of a broker-dealer's, an FCM's or an FDM's readily available liquid assets, reduced by its total liabilities other than approved subordinated debt.  Our broker-dealer and FCM/FDM subsidiaries are required to comply with net capital requirements.  If we fail to maintain the required net capital, the SEC or the CFTC could suspend or revoke our registration, and FINRA or the NFA could expel us from membership, which could ultimately lead to our liquidation, or they could impose censures, fines or other sanctions.  If the net capital rules are changed or expanded, or if there is an unusually large charge against net capital, then our operations that require capital could be limited, and we may not be able to pay dividends or make stock repurchases.  A large operating loss or charge against net capital could have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain or expand our business.. Extensive regulation and regulatory uncertainties could harm our business.. The securities industry is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state, international government and self-regulatory agencies, and financial services companies are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business.  Regulations are intended to ensure the integrity of financial markets, appropriate capitalization of broker-dealers, FCMs and FDMs and the protection of clients and their assets.  These regulations often serve to limit our business activities through capital, client protection and market conduct requirements, as well as restrictions on the activities that we are authorized to conduct.  Federal, state, self-regulatory organizations and foreign regulators can, among other things, censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders to, suspend or expel a regulated entity or any of its officers or employees.  Despite our efforts to comply with applicable legal requirements, there are a number of risks, including in areas where applicable laws or regulations may be unclear or where regulators could revise their previous guidance, and we could fail to establish and enforce procedures to comply with applicable legal requirements and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 17. Table of Contents. Past turmoil in the financial markets has contributed to changes in laws and regulations, heightened scrutiny of the conduct of financial services firms and increasing penalties for violations of applicable laws and regulations.  We may be adversely affected by new laws or regulations, changes in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations or more rigorous enforcement.  The new laws and regulations may be complex, and we may not have the benefit of regulatory or federal interpretations to guide us in compliance.  Changes in laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations also can have adverse effects on our methods and costs of doing business.  We also may be adversely affected by other regulatory changes related to suitability of financial products, supervision, sales practices, application of fiduciary standards, best execution and market structure, which could limit the Company's business.  Because TD, among other things, owns more than 25% of our common stock, we are considered a non-bank subsidiary of TD under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the \"BHC Act\").  As a result, under the BHC Act, we are subject to the supervision and regulation of the Federal Reserve.  These banking regulations limit the activities and the types of businesses that we may conduct and the types of companies we may acquire, and under these regulations the Federal Reserve could impose significant limitations on our current business and operations.  TD is currently regulated as a \"financial holding company\" under the BHC Act, which allows TD and us to engage in a much broader set of activities than would otherwise be permitted under the BHC Act.  Any failure of TD to maintain its status as a financial holding company could result in substantial limitations on certain of our activities.. Financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interest or perceived conflicts of interest, over which federal and state regulators and self-regulatory organizations have increased their scrutiny.  Addressing conflicts of interest is a complex and difficult undertaking.  Our business and reputation could be harmed if we were to fail, or appear to fail, to address conflicts appropriately.. In addition, we use the Internet as a major distribution channel to provide services to our clients.  A number of regulatory agencies have adopted regulations regarding client privacy, system security and safeguarding practices and the use of client information by service providers.  Additional laws and regulations relating to the Internet and safeguarding practices could be adopted in the future, including laws related to access, identity theft and regulations regarding the pricing, taxation, content and quality of products and services delivered over the Internet.  Complying with these laws and regulations may be expensive and time-consuming and could limit our ability to use the Internet as a distribution channel, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability.. While we maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations, violations could occur.  In addition, some legal and regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for non-compliance even though the non-compliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though systems and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violations were in place at the time.  There may be other negative consequences resulting from a finding of non-compliance, including restrictions on certain activities.  Such a finding may also damage our reputation and our relationships with regulators and could restrict the ability of institutional investment managers to invest in our securities.. We are subject to litigation and regulatory investigations and proceedings and may not always be successful in defending against such claims and proceedings.. The financial services industry faces substantial litigation and regulatory risks.  We are subject to arbitration claims and lawsuits in the ordinary course of our business, as well as class actions and other significant litigation.  We also are the subject of inquiries, investigations and proceedings by regulatory and other governmental agencies.  Actions brought against us may result in settlements, awards, injunctions, fines, penalties and other results adverse to us.  Predicting the outcome of such matters is inherently difficult, particularly where claims are brought on behalf of various classes of claimants or by a large number of claimants, when claimants seek substantial or unspecified damages or when investigations or legal proceedings are at an early stage.  A substantial judgment, settlement, fine or penalty could be material to our operating results or cash flows for a particular period, depending on our results for that period, or could cause us significant reputational harm, which could harm our business prospects.  In market downturns, the volume of legal claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial services companies have historically increased.  We are also subject to litigation claims from third parties alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights.  Such litigation can require the expenditure of significant resources, regardless of whether the claims have merit.  If we were found to have infringed a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, then we could incur substantial liability and in some circumstances could. 18. Table of Contents. be enjoined from using the relevant technology or providing related products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Risk Factors Relating to Acquisitions. Our acquisition of Scottrade presents certain risks that we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time we agreed to enter into the transaction.. Risks we face in connection with our acquisition and integration of Scottrade include that:. • our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management's attention may be diverted by integration activities;. • the Scottrade acquisition might not further our business strategy as we expected, we might not integrate Scottrade's business or technology as successfully as we expected, or we might have overpaid for Scottrade or otherwise might not realize the expected return on our investment to the extent or in the timeframe forecasted, which could adversely affect our business or results of operations;. • we may not realize the benefits or cost savings anticipated to be derived from the Scottrade acquisition as initially predicted, if at all, for a number of reasons, including if a larger than predicted number of customers decide not to continue to use Scottrade's or our services;. • we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining and integrating our businesses and systems with Scottrade's, including the need to combine or separate business activities, accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with customers and business counterparties;. • we could fail to retain and integrate key Scottrade personnel who are critical to the successful operation and integration of the business;. • our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely impacted by: claims or liabilities that we assumed from Scottrade or that are otherwise related to the acquisition, including claims made by government agencies, terminated employees, current or former customers, former stockholders or other third parties; contractual relationships of Scottrade that we would not have entered into but for the merger, the termination or modification of which may be costly or disruptive to our business; unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting treatment as a result of Scottrade's practices; and intellectual property claims or disputes;. • we may have failed to identify or assess the magnitude of liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances of Scottrade, which could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, results of operations or financial condition;. • we may have difficulty incorporating Scottrade's technologies with our existing technologies and product lines while maintaining uniform standards, architecture, controls, procedures and policies;. • we may be exposed to increased risk of a security breach until the Scottrade systems are fully integrated, as  those systems are subject to their own set of security controls;. • we may be exposed to increased risk of litigation and costs and liabilities associated with it;. • we could experience additional or unexpected changes in how we are required to account for the acquisition pursuant to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles;. • we have incurred, and will continue to incur, transaction expenses, including legal, regulatory and other costs associated with consummating the transaction, as well as expenses related to formulating and implementing integration plans, including facilities and systems consolidation costs and employment-related costs;. • our use of cash to pay for the acquisition limits other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, dividend payments and retirement of outstanding indebtedness;. • our debt issuance to finance the acquisition increases our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements; and. 19. Table of Contents. • our common equity issuance in connection with the acquisition diluted our existing stockholders and may result in a decline in earnings per share.. We will need to successfully manage the integration of Scottrade and future growth effectively.  Integration and additional growth may place a significant strain upon our management, administrative, operational, financial reporting, internal control and compliance infrastructure.  Managing future growth also may be difficult due to the expanded geographic locations acquired as part of the Scottrade transaction.. As a result of these risks and challenges, we may not realize the full benefits that we initially anticipated from the Scottrade transaction in a timely manner or at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate the operations of Scottrade and accurately anticipate and respond to the changing demands we will face as part of the integration.  We may not be able to manage growth effectively or to achieve growth at all.  Failure to manage the integration of Scottrade and future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Acquisitions involve risks that could adversely affect our business.. We may pursue other acquisitions of businesses and technologies.  Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including:. • difficulties in the integration of acquired operations, services and products;. • failure to achieve expected synergies;. • diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;. • assumption of unknown material liabilities of acquired companies;. • amortization of acquired intangible assets, which could reduce future reported earnings;. • potential loss of clients or key employees of acquired companies; and. • dilution to existing stockholders.. As part of our growth strategy, we regularly consider, and from time to time engage in, discussions and negotiations regarding transactions, such as acquisitions, mergers and combinations within our industry.  The purchase price for possible acquisitions could be paid in cash, through the issuance of common stock or other securities, borrowings or a combination of these methods.. We cannot be certain that we will be able to identify, consummate and successfully integrate acquisitions, and no assurance can be given with respect to the timing, likelihood or business effect of any possible transaction.  For example, we could begin negotiations that we subsequently decide to suspend or terminate for a variety of reasons.  However, opportunities may arise from time to time that we will evaluate.  Any transactions that we consummate would involve risks and uncertainties to us.  These risks could cause the failure of any anticipated benefits of an acquisition to be realized, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Risk Factors Relating to Owning Our Stock. The market price of our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, substantial volatility.. Our common stock, and the U.S. securities markets in general, can experience significant price fluctuations.  The market prices of securities of financial services companies, in particular, have been especially volatile.  The price of our common stock could decrease substantially.  Among the factors that may affect our stock price are the following:. • speculation in the investment community or the press about, or actual changes in, our competitive position, organizational structure, executive team, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost reduction initiatives, or strategic transactions;. • the announcement of new products, services, acquisitions, or dispositions by us or our competitors;. • sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by (i) TD, (ii) J. Joe Ricketts, our founder, and certain members of his family and trusts held for their benefit, and (iii) Rodger O. Riney, as voting trustee. 20. Table of Contents. of his family trust, who currently have registration rights covering approximately 234 million shares, 59 million shares, and 28 million shares, respectively, of our common stock; and. • increases or decreases in revenue or earnings, changes in earnings estimates by the investment community, changes in the interest rate environment or in market expectations regarding the interest rate environment and variations between estimated financial results and actual financial results.. Changes in the stock market generally or as it concerns our industry, as well as geopolitical, economic, and business factors unrelated to us, may also affect our stock price.. Because the market price of our common stock can fluctuate significantly, we could become the object of securities class action litigation, which could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our common stock.. We are restricted by the terms of our revolving credit facilities and senior notes.. Our senior unsecured revolving credit facilities contain various covenants and restrictions that may, in certain circumstances and subject to carveouts and exceptions, which may be material, limit our ability to:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • create liens;. • sell all or substantially all of our assets;. • change the nature of our business;. • merge or consolidate with another entity; and. • conduct transactions with affiliates.. Under our revolving credit facilities, we are also required to maintain compliance with a maximum consolidated leverage ratio covenant (not to exceed 3.00:1.00) and a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio covenant (not less than 4.00:1:00).  TDAC is required to maintain compliance with a minimum consolidated tangible net worth covenant and our broker-dealer and FCM/FDM subsidiaries are required to maintain compliance with minimum regulatory net capital covenants.. Our senior unsecured notes contain various covenants and restrictions that may, in certain circumstances and subject to carveouts and exceptions, which may be material, limit our ability to:. • create liens;. • merge or consolidate with another entity; and. • sell all or substantially all of our assets.. As a result of the covenants and restrictions contained in the revolving credit facilities and our senior unsecured notes, we are limited in how we conduct our business.  We cannot guarantee that we will be able to remain in compliance with these covenants or be able to obtain waivers for noncompliance in the future.  A failure to comply with these covenants could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition by impairing our ability to secure and maintain financing.. Our corporate debt level may limit our ability to obtain additional financing.. As of September 30, 2017, we had approximately $2.55 billion of long-term debt, consisting of:. • $500 million of 5.600% Senior Notes with principal due in full on December 1, 2019;. • $750 million of 2.950% Senior Notes with principal due in full on April 1, 2022;. • $500 million of 3.625% Senior Notes with principal due in full on April 1, 2025; and. • $800 million of 3.300% Senior Notes with principal due in full on April 1, 2027.. Our ability to meet our cash requirements, including our debt repayment obligations, is dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which. 21. Table of Contents. are or may be beyond our control.  We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations to fund our cash requirements.  If we are unable to meet our cash requirements from operations, we would be required to obtain alternative financing.  The degree to which we may be leveraged as a result of the indebtedness we have incurred could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes, could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures or could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes and opportunities in our industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage.  There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain alternative financing, that any such financing would be on acceptable terms or that we would be permitted to do so under the terms of existing financing arrangements.  In the absence of such financing, our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions, make future acquisitions, react to adverse operating results, meet our debt repayment obligations or fund required capital expenditures could be materially and adversely affected.. Our business, financial position, and results of operations could be harmed by adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies.. If our counterparty credit rating or the credit ratings of our outstanding indebtedness are downgraded, or if rating agencies indicate that a downgrade may occur, our business, financial position, and results of operations could be adversely affected and perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged.  A downgrade would have the effect of increasing our incremental borrowing costs and could decrease the availability of funds for borrowing.  In addition, a downgrade could adversely affect our relationships with our clients.. TD exercises significant influence over TD Ameritrade.. As of October 1, 2017, TD owned approximately 41% of our outstanding common stock.  As a result, TD will generally have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of any matter submitted to a vote of our stockholders and as a result of its significant share ownership in TD Ameritrade, TD may have the power, subject to applicable law, to significantly influence actions that might be favorable to TD, but not necessarily favorable to our other stockholders.. The stockholders agreement provides that TD may designate five of the twelve members of our board of directors, subject to adjustment based on TD's ownership positions in TD Ameritrade.  As of October 1, 2017, based on its ownership positions, TD has the right to designate five members of our board of directors.  Accordingly, TD is able to significantly influence the outcome of all matters that come before our board.. TD is permitted under the stockholders agreement to exercise voting rights on up to 45% of our outstanding shares of common stock until termination of the stockholders agreement (January 24, 2021).  If our stock repurchases cause TD's ownership percentage to exceed 45%, TD is required to use reasonable efforts to sell or dispose of such excess stock, subject to TD's commercial judgment as to the optimal timing, amount and method of sales with a view to maximizing proceeds from such sales.  TD has no absolute obligation to reduce its ownership percentage to 45% by the termination of the stockholders agreement.  However, prior to and following the termination of the stockholders agreement, TD is required to vote any such excess stock on any matter in the same proportions as all the outstanding shares of stock held by holders other than TD and its affiliates are voted.  In no event may TD Ameritrade repurchase shares of its common stock that would result in TD's ownership percentage exceeding 47%.  There is no restriction on the number of shares TD may own following the termination of the stockholders agreement.. The ownership position and governance rights of TD could also discourage a third party from proposing a change of control or other strategic transaction concerning TD Ameritrade.  As a result, our common stock could trade at prices that do not reflect a \"takeover premium\" to the same extent as do the stocks of similarly situated companies that do not have a stockholder with an ownership interest as large as TD's ownership interest.. We have extensive relationships and business transactions with TD and some of its affiliates, which if terminated or adversely modified could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have extensive relationships and business transactions with TD and certain of its affiliates.  The insured deposit account agreement between us and affiliates of TD provides a significant portion of our revenue.  This agreement enables our clients to invest in an FDIC-insured deposit product without the need for us to establish the significant levels of capital that would be required to maintain our own bank charter.  During fiscal 2017, net revenues related. 22. Table of Contents. to this agreement accounted for approximately 30% of our net revenues.  For fiscal year 2017, the average balance of client cash swept to our insured deposit account offering was $93 billion.  The average yield earned on the insured deposit account balances was 59 basis points higher than the average net yield earned on segregated cash balances during fiscal 2017.  The termination or adverse modification of this agreement without replacing it on comparable terms with a different counterparty, which may not be available, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  If this agreement was terminated or adversely modified and we were permitted to establish our own bank charter for purposes of offering an FDIC-insured deposit product, we would be required to establish and maintain significant levels of capital within a bank subsidiary.  We would also be subject to various other risks associated with banking, including credit risk on loans and investments, liquidity risk associated with bank balance sheet management, operational risks associated with banking systems and infrastructure and additional regulatory requirements and supervision.. Conflicts of interest may arise between TD Ameritrade and TD, which may be resolved in a manner that adversely affects our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Conflicts of interest may arise between us and TD in areas relating to past, ongoing and future relationships, including corporate opportunities, potential acquisitions or financing transactions, sales or other dispositions by TD of its interests in TD Ameritrade and the exercise by TD of its influence over our management and affairs.  Some of the directors on our board are also officers or directors of TD or its subsidiaries.  Service as a director or officer of both TD Ameritrade and TD or its other subsidiaries could create conflicts of interest if such directors or officers are faced with decisions that could have materially different implications for us and for TD.  Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions relating to the avoidance of direct competition between us and TD.  In addition, a committee of our board consisting of outside independent directors reviews and approves or ratifies transactions with TD and its affiliates.  There can be no assurance that any of the foregoing potential conflicts would be resolved in a manner that does not adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  In addition, the provisions of the stockholders agreement related to non-competition are subject to numerous exceptions and qualifications and may not prevent us and TD from competing with each other to some degree.. The terms of the stockholders agreement, our charter documents and Delaware law could inhibit a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable.. Provisions in the stockholders agreement between TD and the Company, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law will make it difficult for any party to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by the requisite number of directors.  These provisions include:. • the presence of a classified board of directors;. • the ability of the board of directors to issue and determine the terms of preferred stock;. • advance notice requirements for inclusion of stockholder proposals at stockholder meetings; and. • the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law.. These provisions could delay, deter or prevent a change of control or change in management that might provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock.. Our future ability to pay regular dividends to holders of our common stock is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will be limited by our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows.. Payment of future cash dividends on our common stock will depend on our ability to generate earnings and cash flows.  However, sufficient cash may not be available to pay such dividends.  Payment of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon a number of factors that the board of directors deems relevant, including future earnings, the success of our business activities, capital requirements, the general financial condition and future prospects of our business and general business conditions.  If we are unable to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows from our business, we may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock.. Our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock is also dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to the parent company.  Some of our subsidiaries are subject to requirements of the SEC, FINRA, the. 23. Table of Contents. CFTC, the NFA and other regulators relating to liquidity, capital standards and the use of client funds and securities, which may limit funds available for the payment of dividends to the parent company."
