[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities. These risks are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to general risks that affect many other companies. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations, financial condition, and liquidity.. Risks Relating to the Macroeconomic Environment and Our Global Presence. Conditions in global or regional economies, capital and money markets, and banking systems, and cyclical industry demand may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. Our business and operating results have been and will continue to be affected by economic conditions regionally or globally, including the cost and availability of consumer and business credit, end demand from consumer and industrial markets, and concerns as to sovereign debt levels including credit rating downgrades and defaults on sovereign debt and significant bank failures or defaults. Any of these economic factors could cause our customers to experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow, and ability to obtain financing. As a result, existing or potential customers may delay or. 7. Table of Contents. cancel plans to purchase our products and may not be able to fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion or in full. Further, our vendors may experience similar problems, which may impact their ability to fulfill our orders or meet agreed service and quality levels. If regional or global economic conditions deteriorate, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Also, deterioration in economic conditions could trigger the recognition of impairment charges for our goodwill or other long-lived assets. Impairment charges, if any, may be material to our results of operations and financial position.. Foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results.. A significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States (\"U.S.\"), and changes in the relative values of currencies may have a significant effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. We are exposed to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on our costs and revenue. Approximately 55% of our net sales for fiscal 2017 were invoiced in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and we expect non-U.S. dollar revenue to continue to represent a significant portion of our future net revenue. We have elected not to hedge this foreign currency exposure. Therefore, when the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of the countries where we sell our products, such as the euro or Asian currencies, our U.S. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease.. We manage certain cash, intercompany, and other balance sheet currency exposures in part by entering into financial derivative contracts. In addition to the risk of non-performance by the counterparty to these contracts, our efforts to manage these risks might not be successful.. We could suffer significant business interruptions.. Our operations and those of our suppliers and customers, and the supply chains that support their operations, may be vulnerable to interruption by natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, typhoons, or floods; or other disasters such as fires, explosions, acts of terrorism or war, disease, or failures of management information or other systems due to internal or external causes. If a business interruption occurs and we are unsuccessful in our continuing efforts to minimize the impact of these events, our business, results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. We could be adversely affected by a decline in the market value of our pension plans' investment portfolios or a reduction in returns on plan assets.. Concerns about deterioration in the global economy, together with concerns about credit, inflation, or deflation, have caused and could continue to cause significant volatility in the price of all securities, including fixed income and equity securities, which has reduced and could further reduce the value of our pension plans' investment portfolios. In addition, the expected returns on plan assets may not be achieved. A decrease in the value of our pension plans' investment portfolios or a reduction in returns on plan assets could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. Disruption in credit markets and volatility in equity markets may affect our ability to access sufficient funding.. The global equity markets have been volatile and at times credit markets have been disrupted, which has reduced the availability of investment capital and credit. Downgrades of sovereign debt credit ratings have similarly affected the availability and cost of capital. As a result, we may be unable to access adequate funding to operate and grow our business. Our inability to access adequate funding or to generate sufficient cash from operations may require us to reconsider certain projects and capital. 8. Table of Contents. expenditures. The extent of any impact will depend on several factors, including our operating cash flows, the duration of tight credit conditions and volatile equity markets, our credit ratings and credit capacity, the cost of financing, and other general economic and business conditions.. We are subject to global risks of political, economic, and military instability.. Our workforce; manufacturing, research, administrative, and sales facilities; markets; customers; and suppliers are located throughout the world. As a result, we are exposed to risks that could negatively affect sales or profitability, including:. <U+0095> tariffs, trade barriers, and trade disputes;    <U+0095> regulations related to customs and import/export matters;    <U+0095> variations in lengths of payment cycles and challenges in collecting accounts receivable;    <U+0095> tax law and regulatory changes in the U.S. and EU among other jurisdictions, including tax law and regulatory changes that may be effected as a result of tax policy recommendations from quasi-governmental organizations such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (\"OECD\"), examinations by taxing authorities, variations in tax laws from country to country, changes to the terms of income tax treaties, and difficulties in the tax-efficient repatriation of cash generated or held in a number of jurisdictions;     <U+0095> employment regulations and local labor conditions, including increases in employment costs, particularly in low-cost regions in which we currently operate;    <U+0095> difficulties protecting intellectual property;    <U+0095> instability in economic or political conditions, including sovereign debt levels, Eurozone uncertainty, inflation, recession, actual or anticipated military or political conflicts, and any impact as a result of the expected exit of the United Kingdom from the EU; and    <U+0095> the impact of each of the foregoing on our outsourcing and procurement arrangements.. We have sizeable operations in China, including 14 manufacturing sites. In addition, approximately 18% of our net sales in fiscal 2017 were made to customers in China. Economic conditions in China have been and may continue to be volatile and uncertain. In addition, the legal and regulatory system in China is still developing and subject to change. Accordingly, our operations and transactions with customers in China could be adversely affected by changes to market conditions, changes to the regulatory environment, or interpretation of Chinese law.. In addition, any downgrade by rating agencies of long-term U.S. sovereign debt or downgrades or defaults of sovereign debt of other nations may negatively affect global financial markets and economic conditions, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and liquidity.. Risks Relating to the Industry in Which We Operate. We are dependent on the automotive and other industries.. We are dependent on end market dynamics to sell our products, and our operating results could be adversely affected by cyclical and reduced demand in these markets. Periodic downturns in our customers' industries can significantly reduce demand for certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. Approximately 40% of our net sales for fiscal 2017 were to customers in the automotive industry. The automotive industry is dominated by large manufacturers that can exert significant price pressure on their suppliers. Additionally, the automotive industry has historically experienced significant downturns during periods of deteriorating global or regional economic or credit conditions. As a. 9. Table of Contents. supplier of automotive electronics products, our sales of these products and our profitability have been and could continue to be negatively affected by significant declines in global or regional economic and credit conditions and changes in the operations, products, business models, part-sourcing requirements, financial condition, and market share of automotive manufacturers, as well as potential consolidations among automotive manufacturers.. During fiscal 2017, approximately 13% of our net sales were to customers in the industrial equipment end market; 8% of our net sales were to customers in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market; and 8% of our net sales were to customers in the commercial transportation market. Demand for industrial equipment is dependent upon economic conditions, including customer investment in intelligent buildings, factory automation, and process control systems, as well as market conditions in the medical, rail transportation, solar and lighting, and other major industrial markets we serve. The aerospace and defense industry has undergone significant fluctuations in demand, depending on worldwide economic and political conditions. Demand in the oil and gas market is impacted by oil price volatility. The commercial transportation industry can experience variability in demand depending on the economic environment and market conditions in the heavy truck, construction, agriculture, and recreational vehicle markets.. We encounter competition in substantially all areas of the electronic components industry.. We operate in highly competitive markets for electronic components, and expect that both direct and indirect competition will increase in the future. Our overall competitive position depends on a number of factors including the price, quality, and performance of our products; the level of customer service; the development of new technology; our ability to participate in emerging markets; and customers' expectations relating to socially responsible operations. The competition we experience across product lines from other companies ranges in size from large, diversified manufacturers to small, highly specialized manufacturers. The electronic components industry has become increasingly concentrated and globalized in recent years, and our major competitors have significant financial resources and technological capabilities. A number of these competitors compete with us primarily on price, and in some instances may enjoy lower production costs for certain products. We cannot provide assurance that additional competitors will not enter our markets, or that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins, or loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. We are dependent on market acceptance of our new product introductions and product innovations for future revenue.. Substantially all markets in which we operate are impacted by technological change or change in consumer tastes and preferences, which are rapid in certain end markets. Our operating results depend substantially upon our ability to continually design, develop, introduce, and sell new and innovative products; to modify existing products; and to customize products to meet customer requirements driven by such change. There are numerous risks inherent in these processes, including the risk that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market profitable new products and applications in time to satisfy customer demands.. Like other suppliers to the electronics industry, we are subject to continuing pressure to lower our prices.. We have historically experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, continuing pressure to lower our prices. In recent years, we have experienced price erosion averaging from 1% to 2% each year. To maintain our margins, we must continue to reduce our costs by similar amounts. We cannot provide assurance that continuing pressures to reduce our prices will not have a material adverse effect on our margins, results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. 10. Table of Contents. We may be negatively affected as our customers and vendors continue to consolidate.. Many of the industries to which we sell our products, as well as many of the industries from which we buy materials, have become more concentrated in recent years, including the automotive, data and devices, and aerospace and defense industries. Consolidation of customers may lead to decreased product purchases from us. In addition, as our customers buy in larger volumes, their volume buying power has increased, enabling them to negotiate more favorable pricing and find alternative sources from which to purchase. Our materials suppliers similarly have increased their ability to negotiate favorable pricing. These trends may adversely affect the margins on our products, particularly for commodity components.. The life cycles of certain of our products can be very short.. The life cycles of certain of our products can be very short relative to their development cycle. As a result, the resources devoted to product sales and marketing may not result in material revenue and, from time to time, we may need to write off excess or obsolete inventory or equipment. If we were to incur significant engineering expenses and investments in inventory and equipment that we were not able to recover, and we were not able to compensate for those expenses, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. Risks Relating to Our Operations. Our results are sensitive to raw material availability, quality, and cost.. We are a large buyer of resins, chemicals and additives, and metals, including copper, gold, silver, aluminum, brass, steel, and zinc. Many of these raw materials are produced in a limited number of countries around the world or are only available from a limited number of suppliers. In addition, the price of many of these raw materials, including gold and copper, continues to fluctuate. If we have difficulty obtaining these raw materials, the quality of available raw materials deteriorates, or there are significant price increases for these raw materials, it could have a substantial impact on the price we pay for raw materials. To the extent we cannot compensate for cost increases through productivity improvements or price increases to our customers, our margins may decline, materially affecting our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. In addition, we use financial instruments to hedge the volatility of certain commodities prices. The success of our hedging program depends on accurate forecasts of planned consumption of the hedged commodity materials. We could experience unanticipated hedge gains or losses if these forecasts are inaccurate.. In accordance with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC established annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use tin, tantalum, tungsten, or gold (\"conflict minerals\" or \"3TG\") mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo (\"DRC\") and adjoining countries (together with the DRC, the \"Covered Countries\") in their products. These requirements could affect the sourcing, pricing, and availability of 3TG used in the manufacture of certain of our products. As a result, there may only be a limited pool of suppliers who can demonstrate that they do not source any 3TG from the Covered Countries, and we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain non-conflict 3TG in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Further, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins and chain of custody for all conflict minerals used in our products through our due diligence procedures.. We may use components and products manufactured by third parties.. We may rely on third-party suppliers for the components used in our products, and we may rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture certain of our assemblies and finished products. Our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be adversely affected if such third parties lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in their financial or business condition. If these third parties fail to deliver quality products, parts, and components on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders, sales and profits could decline, and our commercial reputation could be damaged.. 11. Table of Contents. Our future success is significantly dependent on our ability to attract and retain executive management employees, and limitations affecting retention and hiring, including Swiss regulations, could have a negative impact on our business and increase our expenses.. Our success depends to a significant extent upon our continued ability to retain our executive management employees and hire new executive management employees to replace, succeed, or add to members of our executive management team. Our executive management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. Competition for executive talent is intense, and we compete for these personnel with other companies that are regulated by the laws of jurisdictions that provide significantly greater flexibility than Switzerland, our jurisdiction of incorporation, in compensation practices for executive management employees.. Security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure could interfere with our operations, compromise confidential information, and expose us to liability which could materially adversely impact our business and reputation.. Security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure could interfere with our operations; compromise information belonging to us, our employees, customers, and suppliers; and expose us to liability which could adversely impact our business and reputation. In the normal course of business, we rely on information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit, and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. Additionally, we collect and store certain data, including proprietary business information and customer and employee data, and may have access to confidential or personal information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations, and customer-imposed controls. Despite our cybersecurity measures (including employee and third-party training, monitoring of networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems) which are continuously reviewed and upgraded to mitigate persistent and continuously evolving cyber security threats, our information technology networks and infrastructure may still be vulnerable to damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to attack by hackers or breaches, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures, systems failures, natural disasters, or other catastrophic events. Any such events could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or penalties under privacy laws, disruption in operations, and damage to our reputation, which could materially adversely affect our business. While we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats to our information technology networks and infrastructure, to date none of these threats have had a material impact on our business or operations.. Covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us.. Our five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility (\"Credit Facility\") contains financial and other covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of Consolidated Total Debt to Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the Credit Facility) and limits on the amount of subsidiary debt and incurrence of liens. Our outstanding notes' indentures contain customary covenants including limits on incurrence of liens, sale and lease-back transactions, and our ability to consolidate, merge, and sell assets.. Although none of these covenants are presently restrictive to our operations, our continued ability to meet the Credit Facility financial covenant can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to comply with the covenant. A breach of any of our covenants could result in a default under our Credit Facility or indentures. Upon the occurrence of certain defaults under our Credit Facility and indentures, the lenders or trustee could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable, and our lenders could terminate commitments to extend further credit under our Credit Facility. If the lenders or trustee accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets or access to lenders or capital markets to repay or fund the repayment of any amounts outstanding. 12. Table of Contents. under our Credit Facility and our other affected indebtedness. Acceleration of any debt obligation under any of our material debt instruments may permit the holders or trustee of our other material debt to accelerate payment of debt obligations to the creditors thereunder.. The indentures governing our outstanding senior notes contain covenants that may require us to offer to buy back the notes for a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the repurchase date, upon a change of control triggering event (as defined in the indentures). We cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient funds available or access to funding to repurchase tendered notes in that event, which could result in a default under the notes. Any future debt that we incur may contain covenants regarding repurchases in the event of a change of control triggering event.. The market price of our shares may fluctuate widely.. The market price of our shares may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, including:. <U+0095> our quarterly or annual earnings;    <U+0095> quarterly or annual sales or earnings guidance that we may provide or changes thereto;    <U+0095> actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;    <U+0095> volatility in financial markets and market fluctuations caused by global and regional economic conditions and investors' concerns about potential risks to future economic growth;    <U+0095> changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates;    <U+0095> changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations, or principles;    <U+0095> tax legislative and regulatory actions and proposals in Switzerland, the U.S., and other jurisdictions;     <U+0095> announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; and    <U+0095> the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies and companies that serve end markets important to our business.. Risks Relating to Strategic Transactions. Future acquisitions may not be successful.. We regularly evaluate the possible acquisition of strategic businesses, product lines, or technologies which have the potential to strengthen our market position or enhance our existing product offerings. We cannot provide assurance that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with acquisition candidates in the future. We also cannot provide assurance that completed acquisitions will be successful. If an acquired business fails to operate as anticipated or cannot be successfully integrated with our existing business, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. Future acquisitions could require us to issue additional debt or equity.. If we were to make a substantial acquisition with cash, the acquisition may need to be financed in part through funding from banks, public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or other arrangements. This acquisition financing might decrease our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other leverage measures. We cannot provide assurance that sufficient acquisition financing would be available to us on acceptable terms if and when required. If we were to make an acquisition partially or wholly funded by issuing equity securities or equity-linked securities, the issued securities may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our shares.. 13. Table of Contents. Divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. We continue to evaluate the strategic fit of specific businesses and products which may result in additional divestitures. Any divestitures may result in significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Divestitures could involve additional risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products, and personnel; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; the disruption of our business; and the potential loss of key employees. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in addressing these or any other significant risks encountered.. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property, Litigation, and Regulations. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our products and technology.. The electronics industry is characterized by litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Within this industry, companies have become more aggressive in asserting and defending patent claims against competitors. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to future litigation alleging infringement or invalidity of certain of our intellectual property rights or that we will not have to pursue litigation to protect our property rights. Depending on the importance of the technology, product, patent, trademark, or trade secret in question, an unfavorable outcome regarding one of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. We are a defendant to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. In the normal course of business, we are, from time to time, a defendant in litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, anti-competitive behavior, product liability, breach of contract, and employment-related claims. In certain circumstances, patent infringement and antitrust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. If any of our operations are found not to comply with applicable antitrust or competition laws or applicable trade regulations, our business may suffer.. Our operations are subject to applicable antitrust and competition laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, in particular the U.S. and the EU. These laws prohibit, among other things, anticompetitive agreements and practices. If any of our commercial agreements and practices with respect to the electronic components or other markets are found to violate or infringe such laws, we may be subject to civil and other penalties. We may also be subject to third-party claims for damages. Further, agreements that infringe these antitrust and competition laws may be void and unenforceable, in whole or in part, or require modification in order to be lawful and enforceable. If we are unable to enforce our commercial agreements, whether at all or in material part, our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be adversely affected. Further, any failure to maintain compliance with trade regulations could limit our ability to import and export raw materials and finished goods into or from the relevant jurisdiction, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. 14. Table of Contents. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom's Bribery Act, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws.. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom's Bribery Act, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance program, we cannot provide assurance that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation, government enforcement actions, and reputational risk.. We are subject to numerous federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations in the various countries where we operate and where our products are sold. These laws and regulations govern, among other things:. <U+0095> the generation, storage, use, and transportation of hazardous materials;    <U+0095> emissions or discharges of substances into the environment;    <U+0095> investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites;    <U+0095> greenhouse gas emissions;    <U+0095> product hazardous material content; and    <U+0095> the health and safety of our employees.. We may not have been, or we may not always be, in compliance with all environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. If we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged, or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. In addition, environmental and health and safety laws are becoming more stringent, resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens.. Certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal, and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. Liability for investigation, removal, and remediation costs under certain federal and state laws is retroactive, strict, and joint and several. In addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. We have received notifications from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, other environmental agencies, and third parties that conditions at a number of currently and formerly-owned or operated sites where we and others have disposed of hazardous substances require investigation, cleanup, and other possible remedial action and require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the costs of investigation and remediation and for natural resource damage claims from such sites. We also have independently investigated various sites and determined that further investigation and/or remediation is necessary.. While we plan for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with environmental laws, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our. 15. Table of Contents. results of operations, financial position, and cash flows or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury, property damage, and/or cleanup in the future based on our past, present, or future business activities.. Our products are subject to various requirements related to chemical usage, hazardous material content, and recycling.. The EU, China, and other jurisdictions in which our products are sold have enacted or are proposing to enact laws addressing environmental and other impacts from product disposal, use of hazardous materials in products, use of chemicals in manufacturing, recycling of products at the end of their useful life, and other related matters. These laws include but are not limited to the EU Restriction of Hazardous Substances, End of Life Vehicle, and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directives; the EU REACH Regulation; and the China law on Management Methods for Controlling Pollution by Electronic Information Products. These laws prohibit the use of certain substances in the manufacture of our products and directly and indirectly impose a variety of requirements for modification of manufacturing processes, registration, chemical testing, labeling, and other matters. These laws continue to proliferate and expand in these and other jurisdictions to address other materials and other aspects of our product manufacturing and sale. These laws could make the manufacture or sale of our products more expensive or impossible, could limit our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions, and could result in liability for product recalls, penalties, or other claims.. Risks Relating to Our Swiss Jurisdiction of Incorporation. As a Swiss corporation, we have less flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management involving the issuance of shares.. As a Swiss corporation, our board of directors may not declare and pay dividends or distributions on our shares or reclassify reserves on our standalone unconsolidated Swiss balance sheet without shareholder approval and without satisfying certain other requirements. In addition, our articles of association allow us to create authorized share capital that can be issued by the board of directors, but this authorization is limited to (i) authorized share capital up to 50% of the existing registered shares with such authorization valid for a maximum of two years, which authorization period ends on March 2, 2018, approved by our shareholders at our March 2, 2016 annual meeting of shareholders and (ii) conditional share capital of up to 50% of the existing registered shares that may be issued only for specific purposes. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, Swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares from authorized share capital and advance subscription rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares from conditional share capital. Swiss law also does not provide much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares, and reserves for approval by shareholders many types of corporate actions, including the creation of shares with preferential rights with respect to liquidation, dividends, and/or voting. Moreover, under Swiss law, we generally may not issue registered shares for an amount below par value without prior shareholder approval to decrease the par value of our registered shares. Any such actions for which our shareholders must vote will require that we file a preliminary proxy statement with the SEC and convene a meeting of shareholders, which would delay the timing to execute such actions. Such limitations provide the board of directors less flexibility with respect to our capital management. While we do not believe that Swiss law requirements relating to the issuance of shares will have a material adverse effect on us, we cannot provide assurance that situations will not arise where such flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders and such limitations on our capital management flexibility would make our stock less attractive to investors.. 16. Table of Contents. We might not be able to make distributions on our shares without subjecting shareholders to Swiss withholding tax.. In order to make distributions on our shares to shareholders free of Swiss withholding tax, we anticipate making distributions to shareholders through a reduction of contributed surplus (as determined for Swiss tax and statutory purposes). Various tax law and corporate law proposals in Switzerland, if passed in the future, may affect our ability to pay dividends or distributions to our shareholders free from Swiss withholding tax. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet the legal requirements for future distributions to shareholders through dividends from contributed surplus or through a reduction of registered share capital, or that Swiss withholding rules would not be changed in the future. In addition, over the long term, the amount of registered share capital available for reductions will be limited. Our ability to pay dividends or distributions to our shareholders free from Swiss withholding tax is a significant component of our capital management and shareholder return practices that we believe is important to our shareholders, and any restriction on our ability to do so could make our stock less attractive to investors.. Currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Swiss franc may limit the amount available for any future distributions on our shares without subjecting shareholders to Swiss withholding tax.. Under Swiss law, the registered share capital in our unconsolidated Swiss statutory financial statements is required to be denominated in Swiss francs. Since distributions that are effected through a return of contributed surplus or registered share capital are expected to be paid in U.S. dollars, shareholder resolutions with respect to such distributions must take into account the Swiss francs denomination of the registered share capital. If the U.S. dollar were to increase in value relative to the Swiss franc, the U.S. dollar amount of registered share capital available for future distributions without Swiss withholding tax will decrease.. We have certain limitations on our ability to repurchase our shares.. The Swiss Code of Obligations regulates a corporation's ability to hold or repurchase its own shares. We and our subsidiaries may only repurchase shares to the extent that sufficient freely distributable reserves (including contributed surplus as determined for Swiss tax and statutory purposes) are available. The aggregate par value of our registered shares held by us and our subsidiaries may not exceed 10% of our registered share capital. We may repurchase our registered shares beyond the statutory limit of 10%, however, only if our shareholders have adopted a resolution at a general meeting of shareholders authorizing the board of directors to repurchase registered shares in an amount in excess of 10% and the repurchased shares are dedicated for cancellation. Additionally, various tax law and corporate law proposals in Switzerland, if passed in the future, may affect our ability to repurchase our shares. Our ability to repurchase our shares is a significant component of our capital management and shareholder return practices that we believe is important to our shareholders, and any restriction on our ability to repurchase our shares could make our stock less attractive to investors.. Registered holders of our shares must be registered as shareholders with voting rights in order to vote at shareholder meetings.. Our articles of association contain a provision regarding voting rights that is required by Swiss law for Swiss companies like us that issue registered shares (as opposed to bearer shares). This provision provides that to be able to exercise voting rights, holders of our shares must be registered in our share register (Aktienbuch) as shareholders with voting rights. Only shareholders whose shares have been registered with voting rights on the record date may participate in and vote at our shareholders' meetings, but all shareholders will be entitled to dividends, distributions, preemptive rights, advance subscription rights, and liquidation proceeds. The board of directors may, in its discretion, refuse to. 17. Table of Contents. register shares as shares with voting rights if a shareholder does not fulfill certain disclosure requirements in our articles of association. Additionally, various proposals in Switzerland for corporate law changes, if passed in the future, may require shareholder registration in order to exercise voting rights for shareholders who hold their shares in street name through brokerages and banks. Such a registration requirement could make our stock less attractive to investors.. Certain provisions of our articles of association may reduce the likelihood of any unsolicited acquisition proposal or potential change of control that our shareholders might consider favorable.. Our articles of association contain provisions that could be considered \"anti-takeover\" provisions because they would make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our incumbent board of directors. Under these provisions, among others:. <U+0095> shareholders may act only at shareholder meetings and not by written consent, and    <U+0095> restrictions will apply to any merger or other business combination between our company and any holder of 15% or more of our issued voting shares who became such without the prior approval of our board of directors.. These provisions may only be amended by the affirmative vote of the holders of 80% of our issued voting shares, which could have the effect of discouraging an unsolicited acquisition proposal or delaying, deferring, or preventing a change of control transaction that might involve a premium price, or otherwise be considered favorable by our shareholders. Our articles of association also contain provisions permitting our board of directors to issue new shares from authorized or conditional capital (in either case, representing a maximum of 50% of the shares presently registered in the commercial register and in case of issuances from authorized capital, until March 2, 2018 unless re-authorized by shareholders for a subsequent two-year period) without shareholder approval and without regard for shareholders' preemptive rights or advance subscription rights, for the purpose of the defense of an actual, threatened, or potential unsolicited takeover bid, in relation to which the board of directors, upon consultation with an independent financial advisor, has not recommended acceptance to the shareholders. We note that Swiss courts have not addressed whether or not a takeover bid of this nature is an acceptable reason under Swiss law for withdrawing or limiting preemptive rights with respect to authorized share capital or advance subscription rights with respect to conditional share capital. In addition, the New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\"), on which our shares are listed, requires shareholder approval for issuances of shares equal to 20% or more of the outstanding shares or voting power, with limited exceptions.. Legislative and regulatory actions and proposals in Switzerland, the U.S., and other jurisdictions could cause a material change in our worldwide effective corporate tax rate.. Various U.S. and non-U.S. legislative and regulatory proposals have been directed at multinational companies with operations in lower-tax jurisdictions. There has been heightened focus on adoption of such legislation and on other initiatives, such as:. <U+0095> the OECD's initiative to develop agreed-upon best practices to prevent base erosion and profit shifting, which contemplate changes to numerous long-standing tax principles related to the distribution of profits between affiliated entities in different tax jurisdictions,    <U+0095> corporate tax reform in Switzerland, which is proposed in response to OECD and EU concerns,    <U+0095> EU and other country efforts to adopt certain OECD proposals and modified OECD proposals (including the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive, state aid cases, and various transparency proposals), and    <U+0095> tax policy in the U.S., such as federal tax reform and revisions to the Model Income Tax Treaty.. 18. Table of Contents. If these proposals are adopted in the main jurisdictions in which we do business, they could, among other things, cause double taxation, increase audit risk, and materially increase our worldwide corporate effective tax rate. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals or initiatives, and we cannot provide assurance that any such legislation or initiative will not apply to us.. Legislation in the U.S. could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. Various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced in recent years that may negatively impact the growth of our business by denying government contracts to U.S. companies that have moved to lower-tax jurisdictions.. We expect the U.S. Congress to continue to consider implementation and/or expansion of policies that would restrict the federal and state governments from contracting with entities that have corporate locations abroad. We cannot predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business, or the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. Therefore, we cannot provide assurance that any such legislative action will not apply to us. In addition, we are unable to predict whether the final form of any potential legislation discussed above also would affect our indirect sales to U.S. federal or state governments or the willingness of our non-governmental customers to do business with us. As a result of these uncertainties, we are unable to assess the potential impact of any proposed legislation in this area and cannot provide assurance that the impact will not be materially adverse to us.. Swiss law differs from the laws in effect in the U.S. and may afford less protection to holders of our securities.. As we are organized under the laws of Switzerland, it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the U.S. against us in Switzerland based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Switzerland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the U.S. and Switzerland currently do not have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the U.S. federal securities laws, would not be allowed in Swiss courts as they are contrary to that nation's public policy.. Swiss law differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. These differences include the manner in which directors must disclose transactions in which they have an interest, the rights of shareholders to bring class action and derivative lawsuits, and the scope of indemnification available to directors and officers. Thus, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the U.S.. 19. Table of Contents"
