[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or stock price could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below.. The economic environment may affect our customers' demand for our services. Future economic uncertainty may reduce the availability of liquidity and credit and, in many cases, reduce demand for our customers' products. Disruption of the credit markets could also adversely affect our customers' ability to finance on-going maintenance and new projects, resulting in contract cancellations or suspensions, and project delays. An extended or deep recession may result in plant closures or other contractions in our customer base. These factors may also adversely affect our ability to collect payment for work we have previously performed. Furthermore, our ability to expand our business could be limited if, in the future, we are unable to increase our credit capacity under favorable terms or at all. Such disruptions, should they occur, could materially impact our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.. Our revenues are heavily dependent on certain industries. Sales of our services are dependent on customers in certain industries, particularly the refining and petrochemical industries. As experienced in the past, and as expected to occur in the future, downturns characterized by diminished demand for services in these industries could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Certain of our customers have employees represented by unions and could be subject to temporary work stoppage which could impact our activity level.. We sell our services in highly competitive markets, which places pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our services. Our competition generally stems from other outside service contractors, many of whom offer a similar range of services. Future economic uncertainty could generally reduce demand for industrial services and thus create a more competitive bidding environment for new and existing work. No assurances can be made that we will continue to maintain our pricing model and our profit margins or increase our market share.. No assurances can be made that we will be successful in maintaining or renewing our contracts with our customers. A significant portion of our contracts and agreements with customers may be terminated by either party on short notice. Although we actively pursue the renewal of our contracts, we cannot assure that we will be able to renew these contracts or that the terms of the renewed contracts will be as favorable as the existing contracts. If we are unable to renew or replace these contracts, or if we renew on less favorable terms, we may suffer a material reduction in revenue and earnings.. No assurances can be made that we will be successful in hiring or retaining members of a skilled technical workforce. We have a skilled technical workforce and an industry recognized technician training program for each of our service lines that prepares new employees as well as further trains our existing employees. The competition for these individuals is intense. The loss of the services of a number of these individuals, or failure to attract new employees, could adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations on our customers' projects or maintenance and consequently could negatively impact the demand for our products and services.. Unsatisfactory safety performance can affect customer relationships, eliminate or reduce revenue streams from our largest customers, result in higher operating costs and negatively impact our ability to hire and retain a skilled technical workforce. Our workers are subject to the normal hazards associated with providing services at industrial facilities. Even with proper safety precautions, these hazards can lead to personal injury, loss of life, destruction of property, plant and equipment, lower employee morale and environmental damage. While we are intensely focused on maintaining a strong safety environment and reducing the risk of accidents to the lowest possible level, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be effective. Poor safety performance may limit or eliminate potential revenue streams our customers, including from many of our largest customers, and may materially increase our operating costs, including increasing our required insurance deductibles, self-insured retention and insurance premium costs.. The Company's insurance coverage will not fully indemnify us against certain claims or losses. Further, the Company's insurance has limits and exclusions and not all losses or claims are insured. We perform services in hazardous environments on or around high-pressure, high temperature systems and our employees are exposed to a number of hazards, including exposure to hazardous materials, explosion hazards and fire hazards. Incidents that occur at these large industrial facilities or systems, regardless of fault, may be catastrophic and adversely impact our employees and third parties by causing serious personal injury, loss of life, damage to property or the environment, and interruption of operations. Our contracts typically require us to indemnify our customers for injury, damage or loss arising out of our presence at our customers' location, regardless of fault, or the performance of our services and provide for warranties for materials and workmanship. We may also be required to name the customer as an additional insured under our insurance policies. We maintain limited insurance coverage against these and other risks associated with our business. Due to the high cost of general liability coverage, we maintain insurance with a self-insured retention of $3.0. 8. Table of Contents. million per occurrence. This insurance may not protect us against liability for certain events, including events involving pollution, product or professional liability, losses resulting from business interruption or acts of terrorism or damages from breach of contract by the Company. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be adequate in risk coverage or policy limits to cover all losses or liabilities that we may incur. Moreover, in the future, we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. Any future damages caused by our products or services that are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.. We are subject to risks associated with indebtedness under our banking credit facility, including the risk of failure to maintain compliance with financial covenants, the risk of being unable to make interest and principal payments when due and the risk of rising interest rates. Our banking credit facility (the \"Credit Facility\"), which matures in July 2020, contains financial covenants requiring the Company to maintain certain financial ratios. As of December 31, 2017, we were required to maintain (i) a maximum ratio of senior secured debt to consolidated EBITDA (the \"Senior Secured Leverage Ratio,\" as defined in the Credit Facility agreement) of not more than 4.25 to 1.00 and (ii) an interest coverage ratio of not less than 3.00 to 1.00 (the \"Interest Coverage Ratio,\" as defined in the Credit Facility agreement). As of December 31, 2017, we are in compliance with these covenants. The Senior Secured Leverage Ratio and the Interest Coverage Ratio stood at 3.53 to 1.00 and 3.03 to 1.00, respectively, as of December 31, 2017.. We entered into the seventh amendment to the Credit Facility (the \"Seventh Amendment\") on March 8, 2018 to modify certain of the financial covenants. The Seventh Amendment eliminated the Total Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Credit Facility agreement) covenant through the remainder of the term of the Credit Facility and also modified both the Senior Secured Leverage Ratio and the Interest Coverage Ratio as follows. First, the Company is required to maintain a maximum Senior Secured Leverage Ratio of not more 4.25 to 1.00 as of March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, not more than 3.50 to 1.00 as of September 30, 2018 and each quarter thereafter through June 30, 2019 and not more than 2.75 to 1.00 as of September 30, 2019 and each quarter thereafter. With respect to the Interest Coverage Ratio, the Company is required to maintain a ratio of not less than 2.25 to 1.00 as of March 31, 2018 and each quarter thereafter through December 31, 2018 and not less than 2.50 to 1.00 as of March 31, 2019 and each quarter thereafter.. Our ability to maintain compliance with the financial covenants is dependent upon our future operating performance and future financial condition, both of which are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with the Credit Facility covenants as of any future date. In the event we are unable maintain compliance with our financial covenants, we would seek to enter into an amendment to the Credit Facility with our bank group in order to modify and/or to provide relief from the financial covenants for an additional period of time. Although we have entered into amendments in the past, there can be no assurance that any future amendments would be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all.. We rely primarily on cash flows from our operations to make required interest and principal payments on our debt under the Credit Facility. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations, we may be unable to pay interest and principal obligations on our debt when they become due. Failure to comply with these obligations or failure to comply with the financial covenants discussed above could result in an event of default, which would permit our lenders to accelerate the repayment of the debt. If our lenders accelerate the repayment of debt, there is no assurance that we could refinance such debt on terms favorable to us or at all.. All of the debt outstanding under the Credit Facility bears interest at variable market rates. If market interest rates increase, our interest expense and cash flows could be adversely impacted. Based on Credit Facility borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2017, an increase in market interest rates of 100 basis points would increase our interest expense and decrease our operating cash flows by approximately $2 million on an annual basis.. Our Credit Facility restricts our ability to, among other items, incur additional indebtedness, engage in mergers, acquisitions and dispositions and alter the business conducted by the Company and its subsidiaries. These restrictions could adversely affect our ability to operate our businesses and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise.. The accounting method for our convertible debt securities may have a material effect on our reported financial results. On July 31, 2017 we issued $230.0 million principal amount of 5.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023 (the \"Notes\") in a private offering. Accordingly, the issuance of the Notes and the subsequent accounting associated with the Notes has been reflected in our consolidated financial statements beginning in the third quarter of 2017.. Under Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") Accounting Standards Codification (\"ASC\") 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, (\"ASC 470-20\"), an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the. 9. Table of Contents. convertible debt instruments (such as the Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the Notes is that the equity component is included in the additional paid-in capital section of equity on our consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component is treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the Notes. As a result, we are recording a greater amount of non-cash interest expense as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the Notes to their face amount over the term of the Notes. We will report lower net income (or greater net loss) in our financial results because ASC 470-20 requires interest to include both the current period's amortization of the debt discount and the instrument's coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the market price of our common stock and the trading price of the Notes.. Also, because the Notes could be convertible in full into more than 19.99 percent of our outstanding common stock, we have agreed to seek the approval of the holders of our outstanding shares of common stock at our next annual stockholders' meeting for the issuance of more than 19.99 percent of our outstanding common stock upon conversion of the Notes. Unless and until we receive stockholder approval, holders may only surrender their Notes for conversion for cash or a combination of cash and common stock upon the satisfaction of certain conditions. Accordingly, these circumstances could require us to cash-settle a portion of the conversion feature of the Notes. Because of this cash settlement requirement, we have recorded an embedded derivative liability for the conversion feature for approximately 60% of the Notes pursuant to ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging, with changes in fair value of the embedded derivative liability reflected in our results of operations each period. Gains and/or losses on the embedded derivative liability will continue to impact our results of operations unless and until we receive stockholder approval. The valuation of such derivative liability is highly sensitive to changes in the price of our common stock. Generally, decreases in our stock price will result in gains, while increases in our stock price will result in losses. As such, movement in our stock price could materially and adversely affect our financial results, including our net income (loss) as well as increase the volatility of our financial results from period to period.. In addition, convertible debt instruments (such as the Notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method if we have the ability and intent to settle in cash, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the Notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. We cannot be sure that we will be able to demonstrate the ability or intent to settle the Notes in cash in any future reporting period or that future accounting standards will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes, then we would utilize the if-converted method, which would require us to assume the Notes would be settled entirely in shares of common stock for purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share. In such case, our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected.. Transactions relating to our convertible debt securities may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, or may otherwise depress the price of our common stock. The Notes are initially convertible into 10,599,067 shares of common stock, but the occurrence of certain corporate events could increase the conversion rate, which could result in the Notes becoming convertible into a maximum of 14,838,703 shares of common stock. Upon conversion, the Company may settle the Notes in cash or in shares of common stock or a combination of cash and shares of common stock, in each case, at the Company's election, subject to certain limitations prior to the receipt of the shareholder approval described above. If the Notes are converted, our intent is to settle the principal amount of the Notes in cash and settle the remainder of our conversion obligation by issuing shares of common stock; however, we cannot guarantee that we will have sufficient funds available to us at the time of any such conversions in order effect settlement in that manner. In such case, we could elect to settle the conversion obligation in a different combination of cash and shares of common stock or entirely in shares of common stock, depending on the circumstances. To the extent we deliver shares of common stock upon conversion of the Notes, the ownership interests of existing stockholders would be diluted. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.. Additional impairments of our goodwill, impairments of our intangible and other long-lived assets, and changes in the estimated useful lives of intangible assets could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. As a result of past acquisitions, goodwill and other intangible assets comprise a substantial portion of our total assets. As of December 31, 2017, our goodwill and intangible assets totaled $284.8 million and $160.2 million, respectively. We assess or test goodwill for impairment at least annually in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the U.S. (\"GAAP\"), while our other long-lived assets, including our finite-lived intangible assets, are tested for impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. A decrease in our market capitalization or profitability or unfavorable changes in market, economic and industry conditions all would increase the risk of impairment. In the second and third quarters of 2017, we determined that there were sufficient indicators to trigger interim goodwill impairment tests. The. 10. Table of Contents. indicators included, among other factors, the continued market softness and the related impacts on our financial results and our stock price. While the second quarter 2017 test indicated no impairment, our third quarter 2017 test resulted in an impairment loss of $75.2 million. Our 2017 annual goodwill impairment test, which was completed as of December 1, 2017, did not result in any additional impairment. However, given the recent weak and uncertain macro environment in the industries in which we operate, there can be no assurance that the estimates and assumptions made for purposes of the Company's most recent goodwill impairment test will prove to be accurate predictions of the future. Accordingly, we may be required to recognize additional impairment charges in future reporting periods, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. GAAP requires that we evaluate the useful lives of our intangible assets subject to amortization each reporting period. If the estimate of an intangible asset's remaining useful life is changed, the remaining carrying amount of the intangible asset is amortized prospectively over that revised remaining useful life. To the extent the revised useful life of an intangible asset is less than originally estimated, our future amortization expense will increase, which could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. With respect to our intangible asset associated with the Furmanite trade name, management has recently determined that, as a result of initiatives to consolidate the Company's branding, the useful life of this intangible asset is not expected to extend beyond December 31, 2018. In accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other, we will account for the change in useful life prospectively and amortize the remaining balance during 2018. We expect to recognize additional amortization expense of approximately $12 million in 2018, compared to 2017, as a result of this change in estimate.. Improvements in operating results from expected savings in operating costs from our reduction in workforce and other cost saving and business improvement initiatives may not be realized in the estimated amounts, may take longer to be realized, or could be realized only for a limited period. In order to address the reduction in revenues and operating income we have experienced during 2016 and 2017, beginning in July 2017 we took actions to reduce our workforce by eliminating certain employee positions and implementing other cost saving initiatives. Based upon estimates from our current planning model for these reductions, we believe that the actions we have taken have reduced our annual operating expenses by approximately $30 million, with the impact to operating results of those reduction synergies having begun in the third quarter of 2017. This cost savings initiative is largely complete. Later in 2017, the Company began a separate project to identify additional cost savings and business improvement opportunities, with implementation planned beginning in 2018. However, in order to implement this or any other future cost savings or business improvement initiatives, we expect to incur additional expenses, which could adversely impact our financial results prior to the realization of the expected benefits associated with the initiatives. Due to numerous factors or future developments, we may not achieve cost reductions or other business improvements consistent with our expectations or the benefits may be delayed. These factors or future developments could include (i) the incurrence of higher than expected costs or delays in reassigning and retraining remaining employees or outsourcing or eliminating duties and functions of eliminated employees, (ii) unanticipated delays in discharging employees in eliminated positions as a result of regulatory or legal limitations on employee terminations in certain jurisdictions, (iii) actual savings differing from anticipated cost savings, (iv) anticipated benefits from business improvement initiatives not materializing and (v) disruptions to normal operations or other unintended adverse impacts resulting from the initiatives.. We may also decide to reduce, suspend or terminate our workforce reduction plans and other cost saving and business improvement initiatives at any time before achieving the estimated benefits or after a limited period of time. The elimination of current employees can also result in increased future costs in hiring, training and mobilizing new employees or rehires in the event of a future increase in demand for our services resulting in a slower recovery of results from operations. Our initiatives may negatively affect our ability to retain and attract qualified personnel, who may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the Company.. Fluctuations in our effective tax rate and our tax obligations could adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to taxes in the U.S. and in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision, tax assets and accruals for other taxes, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected by our profit levels, changes in our business, reorganization of our business and operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the elections we make, changes in applicable tax laws or interpretations of existing tax laws or changes in the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, as well as other factors.. We are also currently subject to audit in various jurisdictions, and these jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against us. Developments in an audit, litigation, or the relevant laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods.. Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Public Law No. 115-97) could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate. The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"2017 Tax Act\") was enacted. 11. Table of Contents. on December 22, 2017 and represents a significant change to the U.S. federal tax code. This tax legislation lowers the U.S. statutory tax rate, but also includes a number of provisions that could significantly and adversely impact our U.S. federal income tax position in future reporting periods, including the limitation of interest expense deduction and the elimination of certain other deductions or credits, and ongoing tax requirements related to certain foreign earnings. Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexities involved in applying the provisions of the new tax law, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017. The U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and others could interpret or issue new guidance on how provisions of the 2017 Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. As we complete our analysis of the 2017 Tax Act, collect and prepare necessary data and interpret any additional guidance, we may make adjustments to provisional amounts that we have recorded that may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made.. The Company's operations and information systems, including its employee and financial records, are subject to cybersecurity risks. Team continues to increase its dependence on digital technologies to conduct its operations. Many of the Company's files, including employee and financial records, are digitized and more employees are working in almost paperless and remote environments. We have also outsourced certain information technology development, maintenance and support functions. As a result, the Company may be exposed to potentially severe cyber incidents at both its internal locations and outside vendor locations that could result in a theft of sensitive data and/or intellectual property, alteration or deletion of critical data and/or disruption of its operations for an extended period of time. This could also result in claims, losses, fines and higher costs to correct and remedy the effects of such incidents, although no such material incidents have occurred to date to the Company's knowledge.. Our operations and properties are subject to extensive governmental regulation under environmental laws. Environmental laws and regulations can impose substantial sanctions for violations or operational changes that may limit our services. We must conform our operations to applicable regulatory requirements and adapt to changes in such requirements in all locations in which we operate. These actions may increase the overall costs of providing our services. Some of our services involve handling or monitoring highly regulated materials, including VOCs or hazardous wastes. Environmental laws and regulations generally impose limitations and standards for regulated materials and require us to obtain permits and comply with various other requirements. The improper characterization, handling, disposal or monitoring of regulated materials or any other failure by us to comply with increasingly complex and strictly enforced federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations or associated environmental permits could subject us to the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations, or the issuance of injunctions that could restrict or prevent our ability to operate our business and complete contracted services. A defect in our services or faulty workmanship could result in an environmental liability if, as a result of the defect or faulty workmanship, a contaminant is released into the environment.. We are involved and are likely to continue to be involved in legal proceedings, which will increase our costs and, if adversely determined, could have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. We are currently a defendant in legal proceedings arising from the operation of our business and it is reasonable to expect that we will be named in future actions. Most of the legal proceedings against us arise out of the normal course of performing services at customer facilities, and include claims for workers' compensation, personal injury and property damage. Legal proceedings can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful defense of a liability claim could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position or cash flows.. Economic, political and other risks associated with international operations could adversely affect our business. A portion of our operations are conducted and located outside the U.S., and accordingly, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, instability in political or economic conditions, difficulty in repatriating cash proceeds, differing employee relations, differing regulatory environments, trade protection measures, and difficulty in administering and enforcing corporate policies which may be different than the normal business practices of local cultures. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by U.S. and foreign anti-corruption regulations applicable to us such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act. Our international business operations may include projects in countries where corruption is prevalent. Although we have, and continue to, implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors or agents, including those representing us in countries where practices which violate such anti-corruption laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies and procedures. Any violation of foreign or U.S. laws by our employees, contractors or agents, even if such violation is prohibited by our policies and procedures, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.. Our growth strategy entails risk for investors. We intend to continue to pursue acquisitions in, or complementary to, the specialty maintenance and construction services industry to complement and diversify our existing business. We may not be able. 12. Table of Contents. to continue to expand our market presence through acquisitions, and any future acquisitions may present unforeseen integration difficulties or costs. From time to time, we make acquisitions of other businesses that enhance our services or geographic scope. No assurances can be made that we will realize the cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we may anticipate from any acquisition, or that we will realize such benefits within the time frame that we expect. If we are not able to address the challenges associated with acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses, or if our integrated product and service offerings fail to achieve market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected. The consideration paid in connection with an acquisition may also affect our share price or future financial results depending on the structure of such consideration. To the extent we issue stock or other rights to purchase stock, including options or other rights, existing shareholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of additional debt.. The price of our outstanding securities may be volatile. It is possible that in some future quarter (or quarters) our revenues, operating results or other measures of financial performance will not meet the expectations of public stock market analysts or investors, which could cause the price of our outstanding securities to decline or be volatile. Historically, our quarterly and annual sales and operating results have fluctuated. We expect fluctuations to continue in the future. In addition to general economic and political conditions, the following factors may affect our sales and operating results: the timing of significant customer orders, the timing of planned maintenance projects at customer facilities, changes in competitive pricing, wide variations in profitability by product line, variations in operating expenses, rapid increases in raw material and labor costs, the timing of announcements or introductions of new products or services by us, our competitors or our respective customers, the acceptance of those services, our ability to adequately meet staffing requirements with qualified personnel, relative variations in manufacturing efficiencies and costs, and the relative strength or weakness of international markets. Since our quarterly and annual revenues and operating results vary, we believe that period-to-period comparisons are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of our future performance.. Our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages, staffing shortages and other labor matters. At December 31, 2017, we had approximately 7,300 employees, approximately 1,700 of whom were located in Canada and Europe where employees predominantly are represented by unions. Although we believe that our relations with our employees are good and we have had no strikes or work stoppages, no assurances can be made that we will not experience these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees, or our employees in general, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in the cost of labor.. Our operations and properties are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety regulations. We are subject to a variety of U.S. federal, state, local and international laws and regulations relating to the environment, and worker health and safety. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, are becoming increasingly stringent, and can impose substantial sanctions for violations or require operational changes that may limit our services. We must conform our operations to comply with applicable regulatory requirements and adapt to changes in such requirements in all locations in which we operate. These requirements can be expected to increase the overall costs of providing our services over time. Some of our services involve handling or monitoring highly regulated materials, including VOCs or hazardous wastes. Environmental laws and regulations generally impose limitations and standards for the characterization, handling and disposal of regulated materials and require us to obtain permits and comply with various other requirements. The improper characterization, handling, or disposal of regulated materials or any other failure by us to comply with increasingly complex and strictly-enforced federal, state, local, and international environmental, health and safety laws and regulations or associated permits could subject us to the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations, or the issuance of injunctions that could restrict or prevent our ability to operate our business and complete contracted services. A defect in our services or faulty workmanship could result in an environmental liability if, as a result of the defect or faulty workmanship, a contaminant is released into the environment. In addition, the modification or interpretation of existing environmental, health and safety laws or regulations, the more vigorous enforcement of existing laws or regulations, or the adoption of new laws or regulations may also negatively impact industries in which our customers operate, which in turn could have a negative impact on us.. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of \"greenhouse gases\" could result in reduced demand for our services and products. There has been an increased focus in the last several years on climate change in response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases present an endangerment to public health and the environment. As a result, there have been a variety of regulatory developments, proposals or requirements and legislative initiatives that have been introduced in the U.S. (and other parts of the world) that are focused on restricting the emission of greenhouse gases. The adoption of new or more stringent legislation or regulatory programs limiting greenhouse gas emissions from customers for whom we provide repair and maintenance services could affect demand for our products and services. Further, some scientists have concluded that increasing greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere may produce physical effects, such as increased severity and frequency of storms, droughts, floods and other climate events. Such climate events have the potential to adversely affect our operations or those of our customers, which in turn could have a negative effect on us.. 13. Table of Contents. Interruptions in the proper functioning of our information systems could disrupt operations and cause increases in costs and/or decreases in revenues. The proper functioning of our information systems is critical to the successful operation of our business. Although our information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards, our information systems are still vulnerable to natural disasters, power losses, telecommunication failures and other problems. If critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, our business operations could be adversely affected.. Regulations related to conflict-free minerals may cause us to incur additional expenses. The SEC has established annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use \"conflict\" minerals sourced from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in their products. These requirements could limit the pool of suppliers who can provide conflict-free minerals and as a result, we cannot ensure that we will be able to obtain these minerals at competitive prices. Compliance with these new requirements may also increase our costs. In addition, we may face challenges with our customers if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of the minerals used in our products.. Other risk factors. Other risk factors may include interruption of our operations, or the operations of our customers due to fire, floods, hurricanes, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, labor disruptions, health epidemics and other events beyond our control.. Any of these factors, individually or in combination, could materially and adversely affect our future results of operations, financial position, cash flows and/or stock price and could also affect whether any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K ultimately prove to be accurate."
