[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information contained or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, prospective investors should consider carefully the following risk factors before investing in our securities. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet perceive or that we currently believe are immaterial may adversely affect our business and the trading price of our securities.. Risks Relating to Our Strategic Transformation. We face risks and challenges in connection with our strategic transformation into a digital company focused on our marketing solutions and consumer businesses.. In the fourth quarter of 2017, we commenced a management reorganization of our company to align more definitively with our business strategy, which focuses on two primary areas: marketing solutions and consumer. See \"Business - Strategy\" section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding our strategic objectives and the related reorganization. Our ability to achieve our strategic transformation is subject to several risks, including:. • The transformation may require significant time and investment, and the investments may result in lower margins and increase our operating expenses or capital expenditures.. • The reorganization of our executive management team, including the departure of certain executives, may be. 12. disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, our business. The failure to ensure a smooth transition and effective transfer of knowledge involving senior employees could hinder our strategic execution and succession planning.. • We may be unsuccessful in recruiting and retaining the talent required to operate and grow our digital marketing solutions and content businesses or to internally develop related technologies. We expect to face competition for such talent from larger or more well established digital companies with a stronger digital brand association and greater resources.. • The technology required to support our digital marketing solutions or consumer businesses may be unavailable, and we may be unsuccessful in developing it internally.. Even if we implement our strategy effectively, it may not produce an increase in digital revenues that sufficiently offsets the declines we are experiencing in our traditional print media business. If we fail to implement our strategy effectively, or if our strategy ultimately does not yield a sufficient increase in digital revenues, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Risks Relating to Our Publishing Segment. Our publishing segment's operating results may be materially adversely affected if we do not respond successfully to the shift in our consumers' preferences, behaviors, and demographics away from traditional print and towards digital media, and the associated shift in the allocation of advertising expenditures. Significant capital investments may be needed to respond to this shift.. The media industry has experienced rapid evolution in consumer demands and expectations due to advances in technology, which have led to a proliferation of delivery methods for news and information. The number of consumers who access online services through devices other than personal computers, such as smartphones, handheld tablets and mobile devices, has increased dramatically in recent years and likely will continue to increase. Presented with a multitude of media choices and sources of free information, consumers generally appear to be focusing more on when, where, how and at what price they consume content and less on the source, representation, quality or reliability of the content. The consumption and acceptance of \"fake news\" online and through social media has undercut certain competitive advantages that we possessed as a trusted provider of local news and information across the USA TODAY NETWORK and at Newsquest. The media industry also continues to be affected by demographic shifts, with traditional print newspaper readers getting older and younger generations developing the habit of consuming news through digital media. In addition, the revenues generated by media companies have been affected significantly by the shift in advertising expenditures towards digital media. Media companies generally charge much lower rates for digital advertising than for print advertising due to the range of advertising choices across digital products and platforms and the large inventory of available digital advertising space, and mobile advertising rates typically are even lower than desktop digital rates.. Our success therefore depends on our ability to develop and manage our digital businesses in response to the shift in consumers' preferences, behavior and demographics, as well as the related shift in the allocation of advertising expenditures, as described above. In particular, we must:. • Continue to increase digital audiences;. • Attract advertisers to our digital products;. • Tailor our products for mobile devices;. • Structure our sales force to focus more effort on sales of digital rather than print;. • Attract and retain employees with the skills and knowledge needed to successfully operate digital businesses;. • Manage the transition to a digital business from historical print businesses, including by reducing the physical and distribution infrastructure and related fixed costs associated with those businesses;. • Broaden our content offerings to encompass offerings outside of the traditional news and information category; and. • Invest funds and resources in digital opportunities.. If we are unable to exploit new and existing technologies to distinguish our publishing segment's products and services from those of our competitors, develop in a timely manner compelling new products and services that engage users across multiple platforms, or expand our content offerings beyond the news and information category, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. Responding to the changes described above may require us to make significant. 13. capital investments and incur significant research and development costs related to building, maintaining, and evolving our technology infrastructure, and our ability to make the level of investments required may be limited.. As digital revenues increase as a proportion of our total revenues, we will become increasingly subject to risks associated with digital media operations.. A central component of our business strategy involves transitioning from traditional print businesses to digital media businesses and, accordingly, we expect our digital revenues to increase as a percentage of our total revenues in future periods. We therefore expect to face increasing risks related to our digital media operations, including:. • Rates we achieve in the marketplace for the advertising inventory on our digital platforms may be adversely affected by:. <U+25E6> News aggregation websites and customized news feeds (often free to users), which may reduce our traffic levels by creating a disincentive for users to visit our websites or use our digital products;. <U+25E6> Our inability to successfully manage changes in search engine optimization and social media traffic to increase our digital presence and visibility, which also may reduce our traffic levels; or. <U+25E6> Our inability to maintain and improve the performance of our customers' advertising on our digital properties;. • Our use of subscription models (which may require users to pay for content after accessing a limited number of pages or news articles for free on our websites each month) may cause consumers to opt out of subscription offers in greater numbers than anticipated or result in fewer page views or unique visitors to our websites than projected;. • Technical or other problems could prevent us from delivering our products in a rapid and reliable manner or otherwise affect the user experience, and users could develop negative views about the quality or usefulness of our products;. • New delivery platforms may lead to pricing restrictions, loss of distribution control, or loss of direct relationships with consumers;. • Mobile devices, including smartphones and tablets, may present challenges for traditional display advertising; and. • Technology developed to block the display of advertising on websites could proliferate, impairing our ability to generate digital revenues.. Our inability to respond successfully to these or similar challenges could materially adversely impact our ability to maintain and grow our digital revenues.. Our media businesses operate in highly competitive markets, and our ability to maintain market share and generate operating revenues depends on how effectively we compete with existing and new competition.. Our media businesses compete for audiences and advertising revenue with newspapers and other media such as the Internet, magazines, broadcast, cable and satellite television, radio, direct mail, outdoor billboards and yellow pages. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. If we fail to compete effectively with competing newspapers and other media, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. In addition, our publications generate a significant portion of their advertising revenues from a few categories, including automotive and employment classified advertising and retail advertising. As a result, even in the absence of a recession or economic downturn, technological, industry or other changes specifically affecting these advertising sources could reduce advertising revenues and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Further, our print editions and digital platforms compete directly with well-established websites dedicated to classified advertising, particularly in the automotive, employment, real estate, and legal verticals. Our results may be negatively affected if we do not compete effectively online in the classified advertising market.. Economic conditions may adversely affect demand for print and digital advertising, which could lead to further revenue declines in our publishing segment.. Our advertising revenues depend on the strength of the economy. Our revenues are sensitive to economic trends and uncertainties, as well as discretionary spending by advertisers both at the national level and in the local markets we serve. A decline in the financial or economic prospects of current or periodic advertisers could alter their spending priorities. Certain segments of the economy have been challenged in recent years, particularly in the brick and mortar retail sector, and total advertising revenues have declined as a result. Advertising revenues may worsen if advertisers reduce their budgets, shift their spending priorities, are forced to consolidate or cease operations.. 14. We rely on revenue from the printing and distribution of publications for third parties that may be subject to many of the same business and industry risks facing us.. We generate a portion of our revenue from printing and distributing third-party publications, and our relationships with these third parties are generally pursuant to short-term contracts. Those third parties may be negatively affected by the same macroeconomic and industry trends affecting our media business, such as the sensitivity to perceived economic weakness of discretionary spending by advertisers and subscribers, circulation declines, shifts in consumer habits, and the increasing popularity of digital media. If the third-party publications are negatively affected by these trends, they may reduce the volume of publications they print or distribute through us, and as a result we may lose some, or all, of the associated revenue.. Newsprint prices are volatile and may increase in the future, and newsprint supply may become increasingly scarce as paper mills exit the market.. Our publishing operations depend significantly upon the continuing availability of newsprint, and our publishing segment's results of operations may be impacted significantly by changes in newsprint prices. Newsprint prices have been, and continue to be, volatile and newsprint supply is rapidly declining. The price we pay for newsprint may increase due to a number of factors, including:. • Declines in newsprint supply due to paper mill closures or conversions to other grades of paper;. • The imposition of tariffs or other restrictions on non-U.S. suppliers of paper;. • Increases in supplier operating expenses due to rising raw material or energy costs or other factors;. • Reduction in the number of suppliers due to continuing consolidation of newsprint mills in the U.S. and Canada;. • Decreases in our current consumption levels; and. • Our inability to maintain existing relationships with our newsprint suppliers.. In addition, our ability to supply our publishing operations with newsprint has been and may continue to be disrupted by such factors as:. • Our suppliers may be unable to deliver newsprint to us due to labor unrest;. • Trucks or other means of transporting newsprint may become unavailable; and. • Paper mills may close at a rate that outstrips declines in the demand for paper.. If newsprint prices increase significantly, or we experience significant disruptions in the availability of newsprint, our operating results may be materially adversely affected.. Our business or results of operations could suffer if we fail to protect our publishing segment's intellectual property and other proprietary rights.. Our publishing segment's ability to compete depends, in part, upon our intellectual property, including our trademarks (e.g., mastheads), copyrights (e.g., content), and proprietary technology (e.g., digital platforms). If we are unable to protect this intellectual property, we may not realize the full value of our intellectual property assets, and our business and results of operations may suffer. We rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and agreements, and trademark, copyright, patent, unfair competition, trade secret, and other laws to protect our intellectual property. However, these methods afford only limited protection and may not be adequate. For example, technological advancements have facilitated the unauthorized duplication and wide dissemination of content, making enforcement of our intellectual property rights in content more challenging. Litigation or proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or other governmental authorities and administrative bodies may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights. Our efforts to enforce or protect our rights may be ineffective and could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources.. In addition, third parties might claim that the conduct of our businesses or use of intellectual property infringes upon their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property litigation or claims brought against us, whether or not meritorious, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and we may not achieve favorable outcomes in all cases. The terms of any settlement or judgment may require us to pay substantial amounts to the other party or cease exercising our rights in the intellectual property. We might have to seek a license to continue practices found to be in violation of a third party's rights, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all.. 15. Labor strikes, lockouts and protracted negotiations could lead to business interruptions and increased operating costs, either for our businesses, or for our suppliers.. As of December 31, 2017, union employees comprised approximately 14% of our workforce. We are required to negotiate collective bargaining agreements on an ongoing basis. If we, or our suppliers, are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, affected unions or others could implement strikes, lockouts, work stoppages, or other business interruptions. A significant labor dispute could materially adversely affect our operating revenues, cash flows, or operating income by, among other matters, disrupting our ability to provide customers with our products or services. In addition, even if labor negotiations are resolved successfully, they may lead to greater overall employee costs.. Risks Relating to Our ReachLocal Segment. Weak economic conditions may adversely affect demand for our digital marketing solutions, which may adversely affect business and operating results of our ReachLocal segment.. The revenues generated by our ReachLocal segment also are sensitive to economic fluctuations. Many small and medium-sized businesses (SMBs) have modest advertising budgets. To the extent that economic conditions worsen, our existing and potential clients may no longer consider investment in our online marketing solutions a necessity, or may elect to reduce advertising budgets. Historically, economic downturns have resulted in overall reductions in advertising spending. In particular, online marketing advertising solutions may be viewed by some of our existing and potential clients as a lower priority and may be among the first expenditures reduced as a result of unfavorable economic conditions. These developments could cause us to respond by temporarily reducing hiring or taking other measures and could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our ReachLocal segment's future revenues depend substantially on our ability to successfully develop and launch new products and services, acquire complimentary products and services, and market those products and services in our local markets.. ReachLocal's ability to stay competitive and generate future revenue depends substantially on its successful development and launch of new products and services on a timely basis. ReachLocal may be unable to develop new solutions due to employee turnover, failure to sustain the required level of investment in product and technology development, or difficulties of designing complex software products, achieving desired functionality and integrating the new products with its existing technology. In addition, we intend to supplement ReachLocal's offerings through acquisitions of businesses offering complimentary products and services, such as our acquisition of SweetIQ Analytics Corp. in 2017. ReachLocal may be unsuccessful in integrating acquired products and services with its existing offerings, or may be unable to devote sufficient resources to the further development of the acquired products and services.. Even after developing or acquiring new solutions, ReachLocal may be unable to launch them successfully. The sale of new or additional features, products and services, the value of which may be different from ReachLocal's current solutions or less easily understood by clients, may require increasingly sophisticated sales efforts, as well as additional salesforce training and client education, any of which could increase operating expenses. Further, the future revenues of the ReachLocal segment depend substantially on Gannett's ability to market the ReachLocal digital marketing solutions product suite, including acquired offerings such as SweetIQ's, in our local markets. If we are unsuccessful in selling ReachLocal's products and services in our local markets, ReachLocal's results of operations may be adversely affected.. The market in which our ReachLocal segment operates is intensely competitive, which may adversely impact our margins. If we do not compete effectively, ReachLocal's operating results could be adversely affected.. Our ReachLocal segment operates in a highly competitive market. The market for online marketing solutions is rapidly changing and with the emergence of new technologies and market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. Some of ReachLocal's competitors offer products similar to ours at a lower price, putting pressure on us to lower our prices (thereby reducing margins) or lose clients. ReachLocal's competitors include online publishers, traditional media companies, local SMB marketing providers, SMB marketing technology providers, and new competitors that ReachLocal may face as it launches new products or enters new markets. Many of ReachLocal's current and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, and substantially greater financial, technical, and other resources. If ReachLocal fails to compete successfully against its current and potential competitors, its operating results could be adversely affected.. 16. Our ReachLocal segment purchases most of its media from Google, and its business could be adversely affected if Google takes actions that are adverse to our interests or if we fail to meet advertiser or spend targets necessary for receiving rebates from Google. Similar actions from Yahoo!, Microsoft, and other media providers also could adversely affect the segment's business.. Most of ReachLocal's cost of revenue relates to the purchase of media, and a substantial majority of the media it purchases is from Google. Google accounts for a large majority of all U.S. searches, and Google's share in foreign markets is often even greater. As a result, we expect our ReachLocal segment will depend upon media purchases from Google for the foreseeable future. This dependence makes that business vulnerable to actions Google may take to change the manner in which it sells AdWords or conducts its business. In addition, any new developments or rumors of developments regarding Google's business practices that affect the local online advertising industry may adversely affect our ReachLocal products or create perceptions with clients that our ability to compete in the online marketing industry has been impaired. These risks also apply to other publishers from whom we purchase media, including Yahoo! and Microsoft, though to a lesser degree.. Our business or results of operations could suffer if we fail to protect ReachLocal's intellectual property and other proprietary rights.. Our ReachLocal segment's business is heavily dependent on intellectual property, including proprietary technology. As with our publishing segment, we rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and agreements, and trademark, copyright, patent, unfair competition, trade secret, and other laws to protect our intellectual property. However, these methods afford only limited protection and may not be adequate. In addition, because ReachLocal sells its solutions internationally, we may need to enforce our rights under the laws of countries that do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. As a result, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our online marketing and reporting solutions, technology, software and functionality or obtain and use information that we consider proprietary. Litigation or proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or other governmental authorities and administrative bodies may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights. Our efforts to enforce or protect our rights may be ineffective and could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. In addition, as with our publishing segment, third parties might claim that the conduct of our businesses or use of intellectual property infringes upon their intellectual property rights. Any such claims could result in substantial costs or diversion of resources, and could adversely affect our business and operating results.. Risks Related to Our Business Generally. Our business, reputation and results of operations could be negatively affected if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or if we become subject to significant data security breaches or other security threats or disruptions.. Our information technology systems are critically important to operating our business efficiently and effectively. We rely on our information technology systems to manage our business data, communications, news and advertising content, digital products, order entry, fulfillment, and other business processes. We also use third-party technology and systems for many operations including encryption and authentication, employee e-mail, domain name registration, content delivery to customers, and back-office support. Our information technology systems and any third-party systems on which we rely could fail to perform as anticipated or could be disrupted or damaged by natural disasters, fires, power outages, acts of terrorism, or other similar events. Any such failures or disruptions could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, late or missed publications, and loss of sales and customers, any of which could negatively affect our business or results of operations.. In addition, attempts to compromise information technology systems occur regularly across many industries and sectors, and the techniques used to perpetrate such compromises (e.g., viruses, worms, or other malware, denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering, and employee malfeasance) are constantly changing. Maintaining the security of our systems is critically important both due to our reliance on those systems and because they store and process confidential subscriber, employee, and other sensitive personal data. Although we and our third-party service providers have implemented security measures and other controls designed to prevent breaches, these precautions might fail to defend against future cyber-attacks or prevent breaches or other disruptions to our systems or those of our third-party providers. Because cyber-attacks evolve quickly and often are not recognized until after they are launched, we may be unable to anticipate them or implement adequate measures to prevent a breach. A significant breach could result in, among other things:. • Improper disclosures of personal data or confidential information;. • Expenditures of significant resources to remedy the breach and defend against further attacks;. 17. • Diversion of management's attention and resources; and. • Liability under laws that protect personal data.. The foregoing consequences could result in increased operating costs, loss of revenue, and harm to our reputation. Though we maintain cyber risk insurance, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all losses from any future breaches of our systems.. Recent and future strategic acquisitions, investments, and partnerships may expose us to a variety of risks that might disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations.. Our strategic plan involves targeted acquisitions of high-quality publishing businesses that we believe offer strong synergies with our existing portfolio, as well as strategic acquisitions of digital businesses. Any such acquisitions may involve significant new risks that could adversely affect our results of operations or cash flows, such as:. • Distraction of management attention from our current business operations;. • Strain on our human resources;. • Insufficient new revenue to offset expenses;. • Integration challenges arising from combining company cultures and facilities;. • Failure to achieve expected synergies or implement effective cost controls;. • Inability to integrate acquired digital products, services or technologies into our existing business's offerings;. • Inability to retain key employees of acquired businesses;. • Applicability of new regulatory or foreign law requirements; and. • Liabilities and other exposures not discovered in our due diligence process.. We could fail to execute effectively our acquisition strategy if we cannot identify suitable acquisition targets or obtain regulatory approvals required to complete or realize the anticipated benefits of potential acquisitions. In addition, in order to consummate acquisitions or other strategic transactions, we may need to obtain additional financing from banks or through public or private offerings of debt or equity securities, which financing might not be available on attractive terms or at all.. Our strategic plan also involves investments in or partnerships with other companies, which may involve risks such as:. • Our inability to control the operations of our investee or partner;. • Our investee or partner's failure to achieve its business or financial goals or otherwise successfully implement its business plan; or. • Our inability to monetize an investment due to transfer restrictions and our lack of control over the timing or process for any potential disposition of our equity interest.. Each of the foregoing risks could decrease the benefits we realize from an investment or partnership. We may receive little or no return on these investments, and we may be required to record charges to earnings if the companies in which we have invested decrease in value.. We may be unsuccessful in managing or growing our international operations.. Newsquest operates in the U.K., and ReachLocal has international sales operations in Australia, Canada, Germany, the Netherlands, Japan, Brazil, Austria, and Mexico, and campaign support services in India. Revenue from Newsquest accounted for 10% of our publishing segment's total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017. Revenue from international operations outside North America accounted for 23% of ReachLocal's total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017. Our ability to manage these international operations successfully is subject to numerous risks inherent in foreign operations, including:. • Challenges or uncertainties arising from unexpected legal, political, or systemic events;. • Difficulties or delays in developing a network of clients in international markets;. • Restrictions on the ability of U.S. companies to do business in foreign countries;. 18. • Different legal or regulatory requirements, including with respect to internet services, privacy and data protection, censorship, banking and money transmitting, and selling, which may limit or prevent the offering of our products in some jurisdictions or otherwise harm our business;. • International intellectual property laws that may be insufficient to protect our intellectual property or permit us to successfully defend our intellectual property in international lawsuits;. • Different employee/employer relationships and the existence of workers' councils and labor unions, which could make it more difficult to terminate underperforming salespeople;. • Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;. • Difficulties in accounts receivable collection;. • Currency fluctuations and price controls or other restrictions on foreign currency;. • Potential adverse tax consequences including difficulties in repatriating earnings generated abroad; and. • Lack of infrastructure to adequately conduct electronic commerce transactions.. Any of the foregoing factors could adversely impact our international operations, which could harm our overall business, operating results, and financial condition.. Foreign exchange variability could materially and adversely affect our consolidated operating results.. Our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars. Newsquest operates in the U.K., and its operations are conducted in foreign currency, primarily the British pound sterling. Newsquest's 2017 results were translated from pounds to U.S. dollars at the average rate of 1.29. Continued weakness or further weakening in the British pound sterling to U.S. dollar exchange rate could further diminish Newsquest's contributions to our results of operations. In addition, our ReachLocal segment conducts operations in several foreign jurisdictions. If the value of currency in any of those jurisdictions weakens as compared with the U.S. dollar, ReachLocal's operations in those jurisdictions similarly will contribute less to our results. Though the contributions of ReachLocal's foreign operations to our results of operations have not been material to date, they may increase in the future. If so, we will be subject to greater risk from fluctuations in the exchange rates for currencies in the foreign jurisdictions where ReachLocal operates.. The value of our existing goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired, depending upon future operating results.. Goodwill and other intangible assets were approximately $877.4 million as of December 31, 2017, representing approximately 34% of our total assets. As required under U.S. GAAP, we periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may no longer be recoverable. Erosion of general economic, market, or business conditions could negatively affect our business and stock price, which may require us to record impairment charges to goodwill or other intangible assets when we perform such evaluations. Any such charges would adversely affect future reported results of operations and stockholders' equity but would not affect our cash flow.. Our ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel.. Our success depends substantially upon the continuing contributions of our senior management team and other key employees. Qualified individuals are in high demand, and our senior management and other key employees possess knowledge of our business and industry that may be difficult to replace. Our loss of members of senior management or key employees, or our failure to attract and retain highly-skilled personnel for key positions, could materially adversely affect our business. We therefore may incur significant costs to retain our key employees and to recruit new employees in the future. These risks may be exacerbated by the implementation of our recently announced reorganization, changes in our senior management team, acquisitions and other initiatives.. 19. Our pension plans are underfunded, and we must use a portion of our cash flows to make required contributions.. We, along with our subsidiaries, sponsor various defined benefit retirement plans, including plans established under collective bargaining agreements. Our retirement plans include the Gannett Retirement Plan (GRP), the Gannett 2015 Supplemental Retirement Plan, the Newsquest Pension Scheme in the U.K., the Newspaper Guild of Detroit Pension Plan and a supplemental retirement plan we assumed pursuant to our acquisition of JMG. Our retirement plans were underfunded as of December 31, 2017 by $437.3 million on a U.S. GAAP basis. The excess of pension benefit obligations over assets is expected to give rise to required pension contributions over the next several years. Various factors, including future investment returns, interest rates, and potential pension legislative changes, may impact the timing and amount of future pension contributions. We have committed to make a contribution of $25.0 million to the GRP in each fiscal year from 2018 through 2020, as well as a $15.0 million contribution in 2021. We expect to make a contribution of approximately £15.0 million to the Newsquest Pension Scheme and aggregate contributions of $17.2 million to our other underfunded plans in fiscal year 2018 and expect to make additional contributions thereafter. Our ability to make contribution payments will depend on our future cash flows, which are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, business, legislative, regulatory, and other factors beyond our control.. Adverse results from litigation or governmental investigations or changes in the regulatory environment could force us to change our business practices, impede our efforts to transform our business, or negatively affect our operating results.. From time to time, we are a party to litigation and regulatory, environmental, and other proceedings with governmental authorities and administrative agencies. Adverse outcomes in lawsuits or investigations could result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition as well as our ability to conduct our businesses as they presently are conducted. In addition, new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations could result in penalties for non-compliance or reduction in revenues and could limit our ability to transform our businesses in accordance with our strategic plan.. Our historical financial information for periods prior to our separation from our former parent may not be indicative of our future results.. The historical financial information included in this report for periods prior to our separation from our former parent may not reflect what our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows would have been had we been a separate public company during those periods or indicate what our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be in the future. The historical financial information for the periods prior to the separation does not reflect the increased costs associated with being a separate public company, including changes in our cost structure, personnel needs, financing, and operations of our business as a result of the separation. Our historical financial information for the periods prior to the separation reflects allocations for services historically provided by our former parent, and those allocated costs are different from the actual costs we have incurred since the separation. In some instances, such costs have been higher than the costs allocated to our business prior to the separation, and we expect such costs to remain higher in future periods.. We could incur significant liability if the separation were determined to be a taxable transaction.. In connection with the separation, our former parent received an opinion from outside tax counsel to the effect that the requirements for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code would be satisfied. The opinion relied on certain facts, assumptions, representations, and undertakings from our former parent and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations, or undertakings were incorrect or not satisfied, we and our stockholders may not be able to rely on the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Further, notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel, the IRS could determine upon audit that the separation is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations, or undertakings were incorrect or violated, if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the share ownership of our company or our former parent after the separation. If the separation were determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our former parent and its stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities, and we could incur significant liabilities.. Due to provisions of agreements we entered into with our former parent in connection with the separation, we may be restricted from entering into certain transactions or may be required to indemnify our former parent in certain circumstances.. In connection with the separation, we entered into a number of agreements with our former parent, including the separation and distribution agreement, tax matters agreement, employee matters agreement, and transition services agreement. These agreements contain indemnification or other provisions that could inhibit or restrict us from undertaking certain transactions. 20. that we believe are in the best interests of our stockholders or that might increase the value of our business. In addition, we entered into a modified affiliation agreement with Cars.com, which at the time was an affiliate of our former parent. The agreement was intended to permit our local markets to continue to earn advertising revenues from Cars.com for up to five years after the separation, although the agreement may be terminated earlier in certain circumstances, including if we fail to achieve specified performance standards. To the extent such an agreement contains exclusivity or non-compete provisions, including any that restrict our ability to use a competing service or to compete with our counterparty, it could limit our ability to maximize our performance in the provision of services such as digital marketing services, online career services, or online automobile sales services.. The Internal Revenue Service may disallow all or part of a worthless stock loss and bad debt deduction.. During 2017, we made an election to treat one of our ReachLocal international subsidiaries as a disregarded entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This election resulted in worthless stock and bad debt deductions of $99.3 million, yielding a tax benefit of $36.6 million. These tax deductions are subject to audit and possible adjustment by the IRS, which could result in the reversal of all or part of the income tax benefit. To account for this uncertainty, a reserve of $15.6 million has been established to reduce the benefit to an estimated realizable value of $21.0 million. While we believe this represents our best estimate of the benefit to be realized upon final acceptance of our tax return, the IRS could reject or reduce the amount of tax benefit related to these deductions. If the IRS rejects or reduces the amount of this income tax benefit, we may have to pay additional cash income taxes, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We cannot guarantee what the ultimate outcome or amount of the benefit we receive, if any, will be.. Ongoing analysis of effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) may impact future results.. The Tax Act, which was enacted on December 22, 2017, introduced significant changes to U.S. tax law that have a meaningful impact on our income taxes. Due to the timing of the enactment of the Tax Act, we made reasonable estimates of the effect of the Tax Act on our deferred tax assets. Continued analysis of these impacts and additional guidance on the application of the changes may result in the recognition of income tax expense or benefit in subsequent periods. These adjustments could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations, and the effective income tax rate for the period in which the adjustments are made.. Risks Relating to our Stock and our Debt Arrangements. We cannot guarantee the timing, declaration, amount, or payment of dividends on our common stock.. The timing, declaration, amount, and payment of future dividends to stockholders falls within the discretion of our Board of Directors. The Board's decisions regarding the payment of dividends will depend on many factors such as our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, any future debt service obligations, covenants under our existing or future debt agreements, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, and other factors the board deems relevant. Our ability to pay dividends will depend on our ongoing ability to generate cash from operations.. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business.. Our debt agreements contain various covenants that limit our flexibility in operating our businesses, including our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. Subject to certain exceptions, these covenants restrict our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things:. • Permit certain liens on current or future assets;. • Enter into certain corporate transactions;. • Incur additional indebtedness;. • Make certain payments or declare certain dividends or distributions;. • Dispose of certain property;. • Prepay or amend the terms of other indebtedness; and. • Enter into certain transactions with affiliates.. 21. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law may discourage a takeover of our company.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain certain provisions that may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in our management or control over us. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws, collectively:. • Authorize the issuance of preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to thwart a takeover attempt;. • Provide that vacancies on our Board of Directors, including vacancies resulting from an enlargement of our Board, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office;. • Place limits on which stockholders may call special meetings of stockholders and limit the actions that may be taken at such stockholder-called special meetings;. • Prohibit stockholder action by written consent; and. • Establish advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for elections as directors or to bring other business before an annual meeting of our stockholders.. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control, even though a majority of stockholders may consider such proposal, if effected, desirable. Such provisions could also make it more difficult for third parties to remove and replace the members of our Board of Directors. Moreover, these provisions may inhibit increases in the trading price of our common stock that may result from takeover attempts or speculation."
