[1] "ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or future prospects could be materially adversely affected. Our strategy, focused on more aggressive development of our land, involves significant risk and could result in operating losses. The risks that we describe in our public filings are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently consider immaterial, also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. STRATEGIC RISKS. Strategic risk relates to the Company's future business plans and strategies, including the risks associated with the macro- and micro- environment in which we operate, including the demand for our products and services, the success of investments in our real estate development, technology and public policy.. Adverse changes in economic conditions in markets where we conduct our operations and where prospective purchasers of our future homes and commercial products live could reduce the demand for our products and, as a result, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.  Adverse changes in economic conditions in markets where we conduct our operations and where prospective purchasers of our real estate products live have had and may in the future have a negative impact on our business. Adverse changes in employment levels, job growth, consumer confidence, interest rates, and population growth, or an oversupply of product for sale or lease may reduce demand and depress prices and cause buyers to cancel their purchase agreements. This, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Higher interest rates and lack of available financing can have significant impacts on the real estate industry. Higher interest rates generally impact the real estate industry by making it harder for buyers to qualify for financing, which can lead to a decrease in the demand for residential, commercial or industrial sites. Any decrease in demand will negatively impact our proposed developments. Lack of available credit to finance real estate purchases can also negatively impact demand. Any downturn in the economy or consumer confidence can also be expected to result in reduced housing demand and slower industrial development, which would negatively impact the demand for land we are developing.. We are subject to various land use regulations and require governmental approvals and permits for our developments that could be denied. In planning and developing our land, we are subject to various local, state, and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, infrastructure design, subdivision of land, and construction. All of our new developments require amending existing general plan and zoning designations, so it is possible that our entitlement applications could be denied. In addition, the zoning that ultimately is approved could include density provisions that would limit the number of homes and other structures that could be built within the boundaries of a particular area, which could adversely impact the financial returns from a given project. Many states, cities and counties (including neighboring Ventura County) have in the past approved various \"slow growth\" or \"urban limit line\" measures. If that were to occur in the jurisdictions governing the Company's land use, our future real estate development activities could be significantly adversely affected.. Third-party litigation could increase the time and cost of our development efforts. The land use approval processes we must follow to ultimately develop our projects have become increasingly complex. Moreover, the statutes, regulations and ordinances governing the approval processes provide third parties the opportunity to challenge the proposed plans and approvals. As a result, the prospect of third-party challenges to planned real estate developments provides additional uncertainties in real estate development planning and entitlements. Third-party challenges in the form of litigation could result in denial of the right to develop, or would, by their nature, adversely affect the length of time and the cost required to obtain the. 22. necessary approvals. In addition, adverse decisions arising from any litigation would increase the costs and length of time to obtain ultimate approval of a project and could adversely affect the design, scope, plans and profitability of a project.. We are subject to environmental regulations and opposition from environmental groups that could cause delays and increase the costs of our development efforts or preclude such development entirely. Environmental laws that apply to a given site can vary greatly according to the site's location and condition, present and former uses of the site, and the presence or absence of sensitive elements like wetlands and endangered species. Federal and state environmental laws also govern the construction and operation of our projects and require compliance with various environmental regulations, including analysis of the environmental impact of our projects and evaluation of our reduction in the projects' carbon footprint and greenhouse gas emissions. Environmental laws and conditions may result in delays, cause us to incur additional costs for compliance, mitigation and processing land use applications, or preclude development in specific areas. In addition, in California, third parties have the ability to file litigation challenging the approval of a project which they usually do by alleging inadequate disclosure and mitigation of the environmental impacts of the project. Certain groups opposed to development have made clear they intend to oppose our projects vigorously, so litigation challenging their approval is expected. Currently, the Grapevine entitlement approval has been opposed and litigation has been filed against Kern County as the approving governmental entity.  The issues most commonly cited in opponents' public comments include the poor air quality of the San Joaquin Valley air basin, potential impacts of projects on the California condor and other species of concern, the potential for our lands to function as wildlife movement corridors, potential impacts of our projects on traffic and air quality in Los Angeles County, emissions of greenhouse gases, water availability and criticism of proposed development in rural areas as being \"sprawl\". In addition, California has a specific statutory and regulatory scheme intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the state and efforts to enact federal legislation to address climate change concerns could require further reductions in our projects' carbon footprint in the future.. Until governmental entitlements are received, we will have a limited inventory of real estate. Each of our four current and planned real estate projects, TRCC, Centennial, MV, and Grapevine involve obtaining various governmental permits and/or entitlements. A delay in obtaining governmental approvals could lead to additional costs related to these developments and potentially lost opportunities for the sale of lots to developers and land users.. We are in competition with several other developments for customers and residents. Within our real estate activities, we are in direct competition for customers with other industrial sites in Northern, Central, and Southern California. We are also in competition with other highway interchange locations using Interstate 5 and State Route 99 for commercial leasing opportunities. Once they receive all necessary permits, approvals and entitlements, Centennial and Grapevine will ultimately compete with other residential housing options in the region, such as developments in the Santa Clarita Valley, Lancaster, Palmdale, and Bakersfield.  MV will compete generally for discretionary dollars that consumers will allocate to recreation and second homes, so its competition will include a greater area and range of projects. Intense competition may decrease our sales and harm our results of operations.. Increases in taxes or government fees could increase our cost, and adverse changes in tax laws could reduce demand for homes in our future residential communities. Increases in real estate taxes and other local government fees, such as fees imposed on developers to fund schools, open space, and road improvements, could increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our operations. In addition, any changes to income tax laws that would reduce or eliminate tax deductions or incentives to homeowners, such as a change limiting the deductibility of real estate taxes or interest on home mortgages, could make housing less affordable or otherwise reduce the demand for housing, which in turn could reduce future sales.. Our developable land is concentrated entirely in California. All of our developable land is in California and our business is especially sensitive to the economic conditions within California. Any adverse change in the economic climate of California, or our regions of that state, and any adverse change in the political or regulatory climate of California, or the counties where our land is located could adversely affect our real estate development activities.  Ultimately, our ability to sell or lease lots may decline as a result of weak economic conditions or restrictive regulations.. We may encounter other risks that could impact our ability to develop our land. We may also encounter other difficulties in developing our land, including:. • Difficulty in securing adequate water resources for future developments;. • Natural risks, such as geological and soil problems, earthquakes, fire, heavy rains and flooding, and heavy winds;. • Shortages of qualified trades people;. • Reliance on local contractors, who may be inadequately capitalized;. • Shortages of materials; and. • Increases in the cost of materials.. 23. A prolonged downturn in the real estate market or instability in the mortgage and commercial real estate financing industry, could have an adverse effect on our real estate business. Our residential housing projects, Centennial, MV, and Grapevine, are currently in the entitlement phase, permitting phase, or are fully entitled and waiting for development to begin. If a downturn in the real estate market or an instability in the mortgage and commercial real estate financing industry exists at the time these projects move into their development and marketing phases, our resort/residential business could be adversely affected. An excess supply of homes available due to foreclosures or the expectation of deflation in housing prices could also have a negative impact on our ability to sell our inventory when it becomes available. The inability of potential commercial/industrial clients to get adequate financing for the expansion of their businesses could lead to reduced lease revenues and sales of land within our industrial development.. OPERATIONAL RISKS. Operational risk relates to risks arising from external market factors that affect the operation of our businesses. It includes weather and other natural conditions; regulatory requirements; information management and data protection and security, including cybersecurity; supply chain and business disruption; and other risks, including human resources and reputation.. We are involved in a cyclical industry and are affected by changes in general and local economic conditions. The real estate development industry is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in general and local economic conditions, including:. • Employment levels. • Availability of financing. • Interest rates. • Consumer confidence. • Demand for the developed product, whether residential or industrial. • Supply of similar product, whether residential or industrial. The process of development of a project begins and financial and other resources are committed long before a real estate project comes to market, which could occur at a time when the real estate market is depressed. It is also possible in a rural area like ours that no market for the project will develop as projected.. The inability of a client tenant to pay us rent could adversely affect our business. Our commercial revenues are derived primarily from rental payments and reimbursement of operating expenses under our leases. If our client tenants fail to make rental payments under their leases, our financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Our inability to renew leases or re-lease space on favorable terms as leases expire may significantly affect our business. Some of our revenues are derived from rental payments and reimbursement of operating expenses under our leases. If a client tenant experiences a downturn in its business or other types of financial distress, it may be unable to make timely payments under its lease. Also, if our client tenants terminate early or decide not to renew their leases, we may not be able to re-lease the space. Even if client tenants decide to renew or lease space, the terms of renewals or new leases, including the cost of any tenant improvements, concessions, and lease commissions, may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. Consequently, we could generate less cash flow from the affected properties than expected, which could negatively impact our business. We may have to divert cash flow generated by other properties to meet our debt service payments, if any, or to pay other expenses related to owning the affected properties.. We may experience increased operating costs, which may reduce profitability to the extent that we are unable to pass those costs on to client tenants.  Our properties are subject to increases in operating expenses including insurance, property taxes, utilities, administrative costs, and other costs associated with security, landscaping, and repairs and maintenance of our properties. Our leases allow us to pass along real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, common area, and other operating expenses (including increases thereto) in addition to base rent. However, we cannot be certain that our client tenants will be able to bear the full burden of these higher costs, or that such increased costs will not lead them, or other prospective client tenants, to seek space elsewhere. If operating expenses increase, the availability of other comparable space in the markets we operate in may hinder or limit our ability to increase our rents; if operating expenses increase without a corresponding increase in revenues, our profitability could diminish.. If we experience shortages or increased costs of labor and supplies or other circumstances beyond our control, there could be delays or increased costs within our industrial development, which could adversely affect our operating results.. 24. Our ability to develop our current industrial development may be adversely affected by circumstances beyond our control including: work stoppages, labor disputes and shortages of qualified trades people; changes in laws relating to union organizing activity; and shortages, delays in availability, or fluctuations in prices of building materials. Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays in the start or completion of, or could increase the cost of, developing infrastructure and buildings within our industrial development. If any of the above happens, our operating results could be harmed.. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects. Our future success depends, to a significant degree, on the efforts of our senior management. The loss of key personnel could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or our ability to pursue land development. Our success will also depend in part on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel.. Decreases in the market value of our investments in marketable securities could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We have a significant amount of funds invested in marketable securities, the market value of which is subject to changes from period to period. Decreases in the market value of our marketable securities could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Volatile oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations.  Our cash flows and results of operations are dependent in part on oil and natural gas prices, which are volatile.  Oil and natural gas prices also impact the amount we receive for our mineral leases.  Moreover, oil and natural gas prices depend on factors we cannot control, such as: changes in foreign and domestic supply and demand for oil and natural gas; actions by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; weather; political conditions in other oil-producing countries, including the possibilities of insurgency or war in such areas; prices of foreign exports; domestic and international drilling activity; price and availability of alternate fuel sources; the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other major currencies; the level and effect of trading in commodity markets; and the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures and governmental regulations.  Any substantial or extended decline in the price of oil and gas could have a negative impact on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Substantial or extended declines in future natural gas or crude oil prices would have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures and commitments. Furthermore, substantial, extended decreases in natural gas and crude oil prices may cause us to delay development projects and could negatively impact our ability to borrow, our cost of capital and our ability to access capital markets, increase our costs under our revolving credit facility, and limit our ability to execute aspects of our business plans.. Our reserves and production will decline from their current levels.  The rate of production from oil and natural gas properties generally decline as reserves are produced.  Any decline in production or reserves could materially and adversely affect our future cash flow, liquidity and results of operations.. Water delivery and water availability continues to be a long-term concern within California. Any limitation of delivery of SWP water, limitations on our ability to move our water resources, and the absence of available reliable alternatives during drought periods could potentially cause permanent damage to orchards and vineyards and possibly impact future development opportunities.. Our future revenue and profitability related to our water resources will primarily be dependent on our ability to acquire and sell water assets. In light of the fact that our water resources represent a portion of our overall business at present, our long-term profitability will be affected by various factors, including the availability and timing of water resource acquisitions, regulatory approvals and permits associated with such acquisitions, transportation arrangements, and changing technology. We may also encounter unforeseen technical or other difficulties which could result in cost increases with respect to our water resources. Moreover, our profitability is significantly affected by changes in the market price of water. Future sales and prices of water may fluctuate widely as demand is affected by climatic, economic, demographic and technological factors as well as the relative strength of the residential, commercial, financial, and industrial real estate markets.  The factors described above are not within our control.. Terrorist attacks may have an adverse impact on our business and operating results and could decrease the value of our assets. Terrorist attacks, particularly those that may cause a decline in global economic activity could have a material adverse impact on our business, our operating results, and the market price of our common stock. Future terrorist attacks may result in declining economic activity, which could reduce the demand for and the value of our properties. To the extent that future terrorist attacks impact our client tenants, their businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to honor their lease obligations.. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and stock price. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to provide a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management's assessment of. 25. the effectiveness of internal control. Changes to our business will necessitate ongoing changes to our internal control systems and processes. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatement because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially harmed, and we could fail to meet our reporting obligations and there could be a material adverse effect on our stock price.. Information technology failures and data security breaches could harm our business.  We use information technology and other computer resources to carry out important operational and marketing activities and to maintain our business records.  These information technology systems are dependent upon global communications providers, web browsers, telephone systems and other aspects of the Internet infrastructure that have experienced security breaches, cyber-attacks, significant systems failures and electrical outages in the past. A material network breach in the security of our information technology systems could include the theft of customer, employee or company data. The release of confidential information as a result of a security breach may also lead to litigation or other proceedings against us by affected individuals or business partners, or by regulators, and the outcome of such proceedings, which could include penalties or fines, could have a significant negative impact on our business. We may also be required to incur significant costs to protect against damages caused by these information technology failures or security breaches in the future. However, we cannot provide assurance that a security breach, cyber-attack, data theft or other significant systems failure will not occur in the future, and such occurrences could have a material and adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial position.. Increased cybersecurity requirements, vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, solutions, services and data. Increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted cyber-related attacks pose a risk to the security of Tejon's and its customers', partners', suppliers' and third-party service providers' products, systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of Tejon's and its customers' data. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, monitoring and testing, and maintenance of protective systems and contingency plans, we remain potentially vulnerable to additional known or unknown threats. We also may have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations or customer-imposed controls. Despite our efforts to protect sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, we may be vulnerable to material security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming errors, employee errors and/or malfeasance that could potentially lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, production downtimes and operational disruptions. In addition, a cyber-related attack could result in other negative consequences, including damage to our reputation or competitiveness, remediation or increased protection costs, litigation or regulatory action.. Inflation can have a significant adverse effect on our operations. Inflation can have a major impact on our farming operations. The farming operations are most affected by escalating costs, unpredictable revenues and very high irrigation water costs. High fixed water costs related to our farm lands will continue to adversely affect earnings. Prices received for many of our products are dependent upon prevailing market conditions and commodity prices. Therefore, it is difficult for us to accurately predict revenue, just as we cannot pass on cost increases caused by general inflation, except to the extent reflected in market conditions and commodity prices.. Inflation can adversely impact our real estate operations, by increasing costs of material and labor as well as the cost of capital, which can impact operating margins. In an inflationary environment, we may not be able to increase prices at the same pace as the increase in inflation, which would further erode operating margins.. FINANCIAL RISKS. Financial risk relates to our ability to meet financial obligations and mitigate exposure to broad market risks, including volatility in interest rates and commodity prices; credit risk; and liquidity risk, including risk related to our credit ratings and our availability and cost of funding. Credit risk is the risk of financial loss arising from a customer or counterparty failure to meet its contractual obligations. We face credit risk in our industrial businesses, as well as in our investing and leasing activities and derivative financial instruments activities. Liquidity risk refers to the potential inability to meet contractual or contingent financial obligations (whether on- or off-balance sheet) as they arise, and could potentially impact an institution's financial condition or overall safety and soundness.. Constriction of the credit markets or other adverse changes in capital market conditions could limit our ability to access capital and increase our cost of capital. During past economic downturns, we relied principally on positive operating cash. 26. flow, cash and investments, and equity offerings to meet current working capital needs, entitlement investment, and investment within our developments. While the current economy is seen as strong, any slowdown in the economy could negatively impact our access to credit markets and may limit our sources of liquidity in the future and potentially increase our costs of capital.. We regularly assess our projected capital requirements to fund future growth in our business, repay our debt obligations, and support our other general corporate and operational needs, and we regularly evaluate our opportunities to raise additional capital. As market conditions permit, we may issue new equity securities through the public capital markets, enter new joint ventures, or obtain additional bank financing to fund our projected capital requirements or provide additional liquidity. Adverse changes in economic, or capital market conditions could negatively affect our business, liquidity and financial results.. Our business model is very dependent on transactions with strategic partners. We may not be able to successfully (1) attract desirable strategic partners; (2) complete agreements with strategic partners; and/or (3) manage relationships with strategic partners going forward, any of which could adversely affect our business.  A key to our development and value creation strategies has been the use of joint ventures and strategic relationships. These joint venture partners bring development experience, industry expertise, financial resources, financing capabilities, brand recognition and credibility or other competitive assets.. A complicating factor in any joint venture is that strategic partners may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours or that are influenced by factors related to our business. These competing interests lead to the difficult challenges of successfully managing the relationship and communication between strategic partners and monitoring the execution of the partnership plan. We may also be subject to adverse business consequences if the market reputation or financial position of the strategic partner deteriorates. If we cannot successfully execute transactions with strategic partners, our business could be adversely affected.. Inability to comply with long-term debt covenants, restrictions or limitations could adversely affect our financial condition.  Our ability to meet our debt service and other obligations and the financial covenants under our credit facility will depend, in part, upon our future financial performance.  Our future results are subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this report.  Our revenues and earnings vary with the level of general economic activity in the markets we serve and the level of commodity prices related to our farming and mineral resource activities.  The factors that affect our ability to generate cash can also affect our ability to raise additional funds for these purposes through the addition of debt, the sale of equity, refinancing existing debt, or the sale of assets.. Our credit facility contains financial covenants requiring the maintenance of a maximum total liabilities to tangible net worth not greater than .75 to 1 at each quarter end, a debt service coverage ratio not less than 1.25 to 1.00, and a minimum level of liquidity of $20,000,000, including any unused portion of our revolving credit facility.  A failure to comply with these requirements could allow the lending bank to terminate the availability of funds under our revolving credit facility and/or cause any outstanding borrowings to become due and payable prior to maturity.. MARKET RISKS. Market risk relates to the functioning of the marketplace. Many factors affect market function; investor anticipation, shocks in other markets, and anything that limits the efficient functioning of the marketplace. Market risks can affect the price of our Common Stock.. Only a limited market exists for our Common Stock, which could lead to price volatility. The limited trading market for our Common Stock may cause fluctuations in the market value of our Common Stock to be exaggerated, leading to price volatility in excess of that which would occur in a more active trading market of our Common Stock.. Concentrated ownership of our Common Stock creates a risk of sudden change in our share price. As of February 28, 2018, directors and members of our executive management team beneficially owned or controlled approximately 30% of our Common Stock. Investors who purchase our Common Stock may be subject to certain risks due to the concentrated ownership of our Common Stock. The sale by any of our large shareholders of a significant portion of that shareholder's holdings could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. In addition, the registration and sale of any significant number of additional shares of our Common Stock will have the immediate effect of increasing the public float of our Common Stock and any such increase may cause the market price of our Common Stock to decline or fluctuate significantly."
