[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. The following is a summary description of some of the material risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, including our future financial and operational results.  In addition to the other information in this Annual Report, the following statements should be carefully considered in evaluating us.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry. We have incurred significant net losses in recent periods, and we expect our operating expenses to increase in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, we may never achieve or sustain profitability.. Our seller platform was introduced in 2015.  We incurred net income of $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, and net losses for the fiscal years 2016 and 2015 of $20.9 million and $43.2 million, respectively.  We have an accumulated deficit of $196.5 million and $198.6 million as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We do not know if we will be able to achieve profitability or maintain profitability on a continued basis.  Although our revenue has grown significantly since the introduction of our seller platform, we may not be able to maintain our historical rate of growth as our business continues to mature. Furthermore, the amount of revenue we generate on our seller platform as a percentage of the spend transacted varies across clients and depending on the type of transaction being executed, which makes it more difficult to predict the revenue that may result from any anticipated level of spend being transacted through our seller platform. We anticipate that our operating expenses in respect of our seller platform will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we scale our business and expand our operations. In particular, we plan to continue to invest in our technology and development efforts and sales and marketing efforts. Our ability to achieve or sustain profitability is based on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control and we may never be able to generate sufficient revenue to achieve or sustain profitability.. Because our business model has substantially changed and is continuing to develop, our past operating results may not be indicative of future performance.. Historically, we operated a buyer platform business, which enabled advertisers, agencies and other buyers of advertising to discover, buy, optimize and measure the effectiveness of their video ad campaigns across digital screens. Our business model has substantially changed with the sale of our buyer platform in August 2017 and is continuing to develop.  Accordingly, it may be difficult to assess our future prospects based on our historical performance and operating history.. In particular, as a result of the sale of the buyer platform we are smaller and less diversified. This may result in the loss of synergies between the buyer platform and our seller platform, cause our cash flow and growth prospects to be more volatile and make us more vulnerable to focused competition.. The success of our business faces a number of challenges, including:.  developing market acceptance for our self-service programmatic seller platform;.  continuing to innovate and improve the technology that underlies our seller platform;. 10. Table of Contents.  maintaining and expanding our existing relationships, and developing new relationships with publishers and buyers on our seller platform;.  increasing the amount of advertising inventory made available and bid on through our seller platform;.  the growth, evolution and rate of adoption of industry standards;.  ensuring that our business complies with evolving industry standards;.  offering competitive rates to publishers;.  providing publishers with increased yield and monetization, and access to unique data and feature sets, compared to competitors;.  competing effectively to increase our share of brand advertising spend;.  ensuring that we have access to premium advertising inventory in brand-safe environments and effectively combating fraudulent activities;.  maintaining and increasing the value of our brand and goodwill with buyers and publishers;.  effectively controlling our costs as we grow our business;.  responding to evolving government regulations relating to the internet, telecommunications, privacy, marketing and advertising aspects of our business; and.  identifying, attracting, retaining and motivating qualified personnel.. Our ability to meet these challenges will help determine whether we can successfully leverage our business model to achieve profitability and growth in the future. We cannot assure our ability to achieve this goal, to generate consistent and improving operating results, or even to maintain the same level of success that we have had to date.. Unfavorable conditions in the global economy could limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our operating results.. Instability in general worldwide economic and political conditions make it extremely difficult for advertisers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and unfavorable conditions could cause buyers to reduce or delay their advertising spending. Historically, economic downturns have resulted in overall reductions in advertising spending. If macroeconomic conditions deteriorate, buyers may curtail or freeze spending on advertising in general, which would impact the amount of spend transacted through our seller platform. Furthermore, our contracts and relationships with demand side partners generally do not include long-term obligations requiring them to purchase advertising on our seller platform and are cancelable upon short or no notice and without penalty. Any reduction in advertising spending could limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our operating results.. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or recovery. In addition, even if the overall economy improves, we cannot assure you that the market for online video advertising solutions will experience growth or that we will experience growth.. If we fail to adapt and respond effectively to rapidly changing technology and client needs, our solutions may become less competitive or obsolete.. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt and innovate. To attract new clients and increase spend transacted through our seller platform, we will need to expand and enhance our solutions to meet client needs, add functionality and address technological advancements, including with respect to the sale of video advertising through new and developing mediums and platforms such as CTV and OTT.  If we fail to develop new solutions that address our client's needs, or enhance and improve our solutions in a timely manner or conform to industry standards, we may not be able to achieve or maintain adequate market acceptance of our solutions, and our solutions may become less competitive or obsolete.. 11. Table of Contents. Our ability to grow is also subject to the risk of future disruptive technologies. If new technologies emerge that are able to deliver to publishers increased yield and monetization more efficiently or effectively than our solutions, such technologies could adversely impact our ability to compete. Programmatic technologies are continuously evolving; for instance, some publishers of digital advertising, in particular with respect to display advertising, have begun to embrace so-called header bidding, a programmatic technique that enables publishers to offer inventory to multiple demand sources simultaneously through a tag in the header of the publisher's website. We do not currently offer a header bidding solution.. The market in which we participate is intensely competitive and fragmented, and we may not be able to compete successfully with our current or future competitors.. We operate in a dynamic and competitive market, influenced by trends in both the overall advertising market as well as the online video advertising industry. The competitive dynamics of our market are unpredictable because our market is in an early stage of development, rapidly evolving, fragmented and subject to potential disruption by new technological innovations. We compete with large internet companies such as Google, Inc. and Facebook, Inc. that offer video advertising services and sell video advertising inventory as part of a larger solution, as well as advertising technology companies, advertising networks, and supply side platforms that represent publishers.  Publishers that utilize our seller platform may also use other technology partners to sell their inventory or may sell a significant portion of their inventory through their own sales organizations without use of our seller platform.. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have significant client relationships, much larger financial resources and longer operating histories than we have and may be less severely affected by changes in consumer preferences, regulations or other developments that may impact the online video advertising industry as a whole. They, or other companies that offer competing advertising solutions, may establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with buyers or publishers, thereby limiting our ability to promote our solutions and generate revenue. Many of these companies are also providers of content, and have access to large amounts of first party data, which are not available to us.. Our business may suffer to the extent that buyers and publishers purchase and sell online video advertising directly from each other without the use of technological intermediaries. New technologies and methods of buying advertising present a dynamic competitive challenge, as market participants offer multiple new products and services aimed at capturing advertising spend such as analytics and bundled offline and online video advertising. If the market shifts towards such new technologies and we are unable to either provide such solutions in a compelling manner or otherwise compete with such shift in ad spending, we may incur increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses or the loss of market share.. We believe that we compete primarily on the basis of the speed, reliability, scale and ease of use of our self-service platform, the quality of tools that we provide to publishers to control their inventory, our real-time reporting and analytics, our ability to continuously innovate and our ability to provide and attract demand to publishers at scale. Historically, our buyer platform was a source of demand for our seller platform and we cannot predict how the sale of our buyer platform will impact our ability to provide demand at scale to our publisher clients.  If we are unable to compete favorably with respect to any of these factors our business could suffer.. Our competitors or potential competitors may adopt certain aspects of our business model, which could reduce our ability to differentiate our solutions. As market dynamics change, or as new and existing competitors introduce more competitive pricing or new or disruptive technologies, we may be unable to maintain or attract new buyers or publishers or increase spend transacted through our platform. As a result, we may be required to change our business model and incur additional expenses in response to competitive pressures, which could harm our revenue, profitability and operating results. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors.. We operate in a new and rapidly evolving industry. If the online video advertising industry, or programmatic solutions in particular, do not develop or develop more slowly than we expect, our operating results and growth prospects could be harmed.. Online video advertising is an emerging industry, and future demand and market acceptance for online video advertising is uncertain.  For example, the online video advertising industry is in the midst of shifting, in part, towards programmatic solutions that automate the sales process and allow for the purchase of inventory through dynamic marketplaces.  Many buyers and publishers of advertising have limited experience with online video advertising, and in particular programmatic buying and. 12. Table of Contents. selling of inventory.  Our seller platform is fully-programmatic self-service solution.  Accordingly, if buyers and publishers of video inventory are slow to adopt programmatic solutions our operating results and growth prospects could be harmed.. We recently made the strategic decision to focus our business exclusively on our seller platform. If we fail to manage our evolving business effectively, our financial performance may suffer.. We recently made the strategic decision to dispose of our buyer platform and focus our business exclusively on our seller platform.  The strategic shift in our business has placed and will continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, operational, product development, sales and marketing, administrative, financial and other resources. In addition, the sale of the buyer platform may negatively impact market perception of our prospects, result in the loss of key employees or generate post-closing disputes with the purchaser. If we do not manage these changes effectively, successfully forecast demand for our seller platform or manage our expected expenses accordingly, our operating results will be harmed. If we fail to manage our evolving business effectively, our financial performance may suffer.. The sale of assets relating to our buyer platform may expose us to certain post-closing liabilities.. Under the terms of the purchase agreement pursuant to which we sold our buyer platform business, we remain responsible for certain pre-closing liabilities relating to the buyer platform, including certain liabilities which may be contingent or unknown, and are subject to certain indemnification obligations in favor of the purchaser for, among other things, breaches of representations, warranties and covenants under the purchase agreement. In addition, we may be subject to liabilities and obligations under and with respect to contracts and assets relating to the buyer platform that were not transferred to or assumed by the buyer.. If the market for our seller platform develops more slowly than we expect then our operating results and growth prospects may be adversely affected.. Our seller platform is still developing, and the future demand and acceptance for it is uncertain and will likely depend on its perceived effectiveness by publishers.  The growth of our seller platform is, in part, dependent on the continued proliferation of digital video content, including the pace of adoption of CTV and OTT as a substitute for traditional cable and broadcast TV.  If the market for our seller platform develops more slowly than we expect, or fails to develop, our operating results and growth prospects could be harmed.. Our business depends in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties.. Our business depends in part on our ability to continue to successfully manage and enter into successful strategic relationships with third parties. We currently have and are seeking to establish new relationships with third parties, including with respect to the development of integrations with complementary technologies and data vendors.. Our results are dependent, in part, on our ability to integrate our technology with third party demand side platforms, or DSPs.  These DSPs bid on and purchase ad inventory on our seller platform on behalf of their advertiser and agency clients.    Accordingly, we are reliant on third party DSPs, including the Tremor Video DSP which we divested in the sale of our buyer platform, to access buyer demand and increase the amount of spend that is transacted through our seller platform.  We do not have exclusive relationships with DSPs and they are generally free to stop transacting on our seller platform with little or no notice.   Moreover, a DSP may reduce its spending on our seller platform for reasons outside of our control, including a loss of their clients or adjustment in strategy.  As a result, we may have limited visibility as to our future advertising revenue streams from our buyers.   DSPs often control significant amounts of advertising spend across a broad spectrum of buyers; therefore, any material reduction in spending on our platform by a DSP could materially impair our operating results. As of December 31, 2017, three of our DSPs accounted for an aggregate of 48.4% of our outstanding accounts receivables. In some instances, the DSPs that transact on our seller platform are also our competitors. As a result, they may be more likely to decrease or eliminate their spending on our seller platform.. Integrations with third parties are often costly and time consuming, and can present technological challenges. If there are delays in our integration efforts or we are unable to attract new strategic third parties with whom to integrate our technology, it could impact the efficacy of our solutions and hurt our ability to compete in the marketplace.  Furthermore, if we experience connectivity or other technical problems with our integrations with DSPs they may be unable to transact on our platform, and any such technical difficulties could lead to a negative perception of our product that could impact future spend decisions.. We may be unable to maintain or expand our relationships with key advertisers and agencies, or attract new advertisers and agencies.. 13. Table of Contents. Advertisers and agencies generally transact on our seller platform through third party DSPs that are integrated with our platform.  While the DSP is responsible for bidding decisions and purchasing ad inventory, the overall direction of the advertising spend is typically determined by the advertiser or advertising agency.  Accordingly, our ability to increase spend transacted through our seller platform requires us to maintain and expand our relationships with brand advertisers, including the ad agencies that represent them, in addition to servicing DSPs directly.  A buyer's willingness to purchase inventory through our seller platform depends on a number of factors, including our ability to secure sought after high performing inventory, our access to inventory across multiple screens and devices, our client support and sales efforts, seasonal pattern in buyers' spending, and reductions in spending levels or changes in strategies.  In addition, an advertiser or agency may direct its advertising campaigns through a DSP that is not integrated with our technology, in which case we would not be able to attract such spend through our platform.  We cannot assure that buyers will continue to transact through our seller platform or that we will be able to replace departing buyers with new buyers from whom we generate comparable revenue.. We may be unable to provide access to inventory in a brand safe environment, which could harm our reputation and cause our business to suffer.. It is important to buyers that advertisements not be placed in or near content that is unlawful or would be deemed offensive or inappropriate by their customers. Unlike advertising on other mediums, online content can be more unpredictable, and we cannot guarantee that advertisements will appear in a brand safe environment. If we are not successful in providing inventory in a brand environment, our reputation could suffer and our ability to attract potential buyers and retain and expand business with existing buyers could be harmed, or our customers may seek to avoid payment or demand refunds, any of which could harm our business and operating results.. If we fail to detect fraud or other actions that impact video ad campaign performance, we could lose the confidence of buyers, which would cause our business to suffer.. The success of our seller platform depends in part on our ability to assure buyers access to quality, high performing inventory. We have in the past, and may in the future, be subject to fraudulent and malicious activities with respect to publisher inventory offered through our seller platform. An example of such activities would be the use of bots, non-human traffic delivered by machines that are designed to simulate human users and artificially inflate user traffic on websites. These activities could overstate the performance of any given video ad campaign and could harm our reputation. It may be difficult to detect fraudulent or malicious activity because we do not own content and rely in part on our publisher partners for controls with respect to such activity. These risks become more pronounced when programmatic buying is in place. If fraudulent or other malicious activity is perpetrated by others, and we fail to detect or prevent it, the affected buyers may experience or perceive a reduced return on their investment and our reputation may be harmed. Fraudulent or malicious activity could lead to dissatisfaction with our solutions, refusals to pay, refund demands or withdrawal of future business. If we fail to detect fraud or other actions that impact the performance of our video ad campaigns, we could lose the confidence of our buyers, which could cause our business to suffer.. Activities of our publisher clients with which we do business could damage our reputation or give rise to legal claims against us.. Failure of our seller platform clients to comply with federal, state, local or foreign laws or our policies could damage our reputation and expose us to liability under these laws. We may also be liable to third-parties with respect to the content of the video inventory in which an ad is served if the content violates intellectual property rights of third-parties or if the content is in violation of applicable laws.  A third-party or regulatory authority may file a claim against us even if our client has represented that its use of the content is lawful and that they have the right to use the intellectual property.  In addition, we rely on publishers to provide us with accurate information regarding the details of their inventory and any inaccuracy may subject us to third party claims.  Any of these claims could be costly and time-consuming to defend and could also hurt our reputation. Further, if we are exposed to legal liability, we could be required to pay substantial fines or penalties, redesign our business methods, discontinue some of our solutions or otherwise expend significant resources.. If we fail to maintain or increase our access to premium advertising inventory, our operating results may be harmed.. Our success requires us to maintain and expand our access to premium video advertising inventory. We do not own or control the video ad inventory upon which our business depends. Publishers are generally not required to offer a specified level of inventory on our seller platform, and we cannot be assured that any publisher will continue to make their ad inventory available on our seller platform. Publishers may seek to change the terms on which they offer inventory on our platform,. 14. Table of Contents. including with respect to pricing, or may elect to make advertising inventory available to our competitors who offer more favorable economic terms. Furthermore, publishers may enter into exclusive relationships with our competitors, which preclude us from offering their inventory.  In addition, we review our publishers on an on-going basis and have ceased, and may in the future cease, doing business with publishers based on the quality of their inventory.  As a result of these factors, we may have limited visibility as to our future access to inventory from publishers or the terms on which such inventory will be made available.. Publishers have a variety of channels in which to sell their video ad inventory, including direct sales forces. Any increase in a publisher's direct sales efforts may negatively impact our access to that inventory.. If we are unable to maintain or increase our access to premium video ad inventory or if publishers seek to change the terms on which they offer such inventory, our operating results may be harmed.. We may not be able to provide publishers with sufficient access to buyer demand with respect to inventory they make available through our seller platform. Publishers use our seller platform, in part, in order access demand generated by DSPs and other buyers that are integrated with our seller platform.   One of the primary factors by which a publisher judges our seller platform is the ability to increase their yield and monetization opportunities.  We do not have exclusive relationships with buyers and they are generally free to stop transacting, or reduce their spending, on our seller platform with little or no notice. Moreover, we do not control the bid price for any inventory submitted by a buyer, or the floor price that a publisher sets for such inventory.   If we are unable to fill ad inventory that publishers make available through our seller platform with suitable bids from buyers, publishers may negatively view our seller platform compared to competitive offerings and our results may be harmed.. Our sales efforts with buyers and publishers require significant time and expense.. Attracting new buyers and publishers to our seller platform requires significant time and expense, and we may not be successful in establishing new relationships or in maintaining or advancing our current relationships. Our technology and online video brand advertising are relatively new and often require us to spend substantial time and effort educating potential clients about our solutions, including providing demonstrations and comparisons against other available services. Some clients undertake a significant evaluation process that frequently involves not only our platform but also the offerings of our competitors. This process can be costly and time-consuming. As a result, it is difficult to predict when we will obtain new customers and begin generating revenue from these new customers. As part of our sales cycle, we may incur significant expenses. We have no assurance that the substantial time and money spent on our sales efforts will generate significant revenue.. We are focused on increasing adoption by publishers of our seller platform. As a result, we invest significant time in cultivating relationships with our publishers to ensure they understand the potential benefits of our platform and monetization of their inventory with us rather than with third-party media networks, exchanges and other supply side platforms. The relationship building process can take many months and may not result in us winning an opportunity with any given publisher.. Because of competitive market conditions and the negotiating leverage enjoyed by large publishers, we are sometimes forced to choose between losing the opportunity or contracting on terms that allocate more risk to us than or are otherwise less favorable than we prefer to accept.. If we are not successful in streamlining our sales processes with buyers and publishers, our ability to grow our business may be adversely affected.. We have experienced and may continue to experience fluctuations in our operating results due to a number of factors, which make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations.. Our operating results have historically fluctuated and our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors, including our recent sale of our buyer platform.  Period-to-period comparisons of our operating results should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. Given our relatively short operating history, the rapidly evolving online video advertising industry and our recent sale of the buyer platform, our historical operating results may not be useful in predicting our future operating results.. Factors that may affect our operating results include the following:.  changes in demand for our seller platform from publishers or buyers of video advertising;. 15. Table of Contents.  changes in the amount and quality of available video advertising inventory from publishers;.  the timing and amount of sales and marketing expenses incurred to attract new clients;.  changes in the economic prospects of buyers or the economy generally, which could reduce current or prospective buyers' spend for online video advertising;.  changes in our pricing policies, the pricing policies of our competitors or the pricing of online video advertising inventory generally; and.  costs related to acquisitions of other businesses or dispositions of assets.. Our operating results may fall below the expectations of market analysts and investors in some future periods. If this happens, even just temporarily, the market price of our common stock may fall.. Our revenue tends to be seasonal in nature.. Our revenue and the spend transacted through our seller platform tends to be seasonal in nature and varies from quarter to quarter. During the first quarter, advertisers generally devote less of their budgets to ad spending, which impacts the amount of revenue we generate through our seller platform. Our operating cash flows could also fluctuate materially from period to period as a result of these seasonal fluctuations.. Our take rates may be difficult to forecast and any decrease in our take rates may result in a decrease in our revenue notwithstanding an increase in the amount of spend transacted through our seller platform.. Revenue on our seller platform is booked net of inventory costs.  Our take rate, or our revenue as a percentage of the total spend transacted by buyers on our platform, varies by publisher and transaction type.  For instance, we may receive a different take rate with respect to a transaction executed via open auction compared to a private marketplace transaction.  Our take rate may also be negatively impacted by competitive pricing pressures and the negotiating leverage enjoyed by large publishers.  Even if we are able to accurately forecast the anticipated total ad spend transacted by buyers across our seller platform, we may have limited visibility regarding our overall take rate and the revenue we will generate. Decreases in our take rate could cause our revenue and earnings to decrease notwithstanding an increase in the total spend transacted through our seller platform.. Acquisitions or dispositions could entail significant execution, integration and operational risks.. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire or dispose of certain businesses, assets or technologies. For example, we recently disposed of our buyer platform. Acquisitions and dispositions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including:.  difficulties in integrating the technologies, solutions, operations, existing contracts and personnel of a target company or business unit;.  difficulties in supporting and transitioning clients, if any, of a target company or business unit;.  diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations or alternative opportunities;.  failure to realize the anticipated benefits or synergies of a transaction;.  potential loss of synergies resulting from a disposition;.  failure to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired company, technology, or solution, including issues related to intellectual property, solution quality or architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices or employee or client issues;.  risks of entering new markets, including international markets, in which we have limited or no experience;.  potential loss of key employees, customers or suppliers;. 16. Table of Contents.  increased potential for litigation;.  inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or divestiture costs; and.  possible write-offs or impairment charges relating to acquired or divested businesses.. In addition, we may incur indebtedness to complete an acquisition, which may impose operational limitations, or issue equity securities, which would dilute our stockholders' ownership. We may also unknowingly inherit liabilities from acquired businesses or assets that arise after the acquisition and are not adequately covered by indemnities.  Additionally, acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results and dispositions may result in an immediate impairment of goodwill.. Foreign acquisitions involve unique risks in addition to those mentioned above, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions, divestitures or investments or otherwise adequately address the risks described above could materially harm our business and financial results.. Our international operations and any future international expansion may expose us to several risks, such as difficulty adapting our solutions for international markets.. During each of fiscal years 2017, 2016, 2015 and 2014, a substantial majority of our revenue was generated in the United States. While we have offices outside of North America in Australia, Brazil, and the United Kingdom, a substantial majority of our operations are located in the United States.. Our current international operations and any future international expansion of our business will involve a variety of risks, including:.  localization of our solutions, including translation into foreign languages and adaptation for local practices;.  unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, trade laws, tariffs, export quotas, custom duties or other trade restrictions;.  differing labor regulations where labor laws may be more advantageous to employees as compared to the United States;.  more stringent regulations relating to data security and the unauthorized use of, or access to, commercial and personal information, particularly in the European Union;.  reluctance to allow personally identifiable data related to non-U.S. citizens to be stored in databases within the United States;.  changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions;.  challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs;.  risks resulting from changes in currency exchange rates;.  limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the capital needs of our operations in other countries;.  different or lesser intellectual property protection; and.  exposure to liabilities under anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions.. Operating internationally requires significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required in establishing and expanding our international operations will produce desired. 17. Table of Contents. levels of revenue or profitability. If we invest substantial time and resources to establish and expand our international operations and are unable to do so successfully and in a timely manner, our business and operating results will suffer.. We have not engaged in currency hedging activities to limit risk of exchange rate fluctuations. Changes in exchange rates affect our costs and earnings, and may also affect the book value of our assets located outside the United States and the amount of our stockholders' equity.. Failure to comply with anti-bribery, anti-corruption, and anti-money laundering laws could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences.. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, or FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, and other anti-corruption, anti-bribery, and anti-money laundering laws in various jurisdictions both domestic and abroad. Anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws have been enforced aggressively in recent years and are interpreted broadly and generally prohibit companies and their employees and agents from promising, authorizing, making or offering improper payments or other benefits to government officials and others in the private sector.  While we have policies and procedure to address compliance with such laws, we cannot assure you that all of our employees and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. Any violation of the FCPA or other applicable anti-bribery, anti-corruption laws, and anti-money laundering laws could result in whistleblower complaints, adverse media coverage, investigations, significant diversion of management's resource's attention, loss of export privileges, severe criminal or civil sanctions, or suspension, or debarment, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from growing.. Our business and operations may consume resources faster than we anticipate. In the future, we may need to raise additional funds to expand our marketing and sales and technology development efforts or to make acquisitions. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. Our credit facility matures in January 2020, and we may be unable to renew the credit facility on terms that are acceptable to us.  If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund the expansion of our marketing and sales and technology development efforts or take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities, which could harm our business and results of operations. Furthermore, if we issue additional equity securities, stockholders will experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. As a result, our stockholders bear the risk of our future securities offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their interest.. Provisions of our credit facility and any future debt instruments may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies.. Our credit facility requires us, and any future debt instruments we may enter into in the future may require us, to comply with various covenants that limit our ability to, among other things:.  dispose of assets;.  complete mergers or acquisitions;.  incur indebtedness;.  encumber assets;.  pay dividends or make other distributions to holders of our capital stock;.  make specified investments; and.  engage in transactions with our affiliates.. These restrictions could inhibit our ability to pursue our business strategies. We are also subject to a financial covenant with respect to a minimum quick ratio, tested monthly, and Adjusted EBITDA for trailing periods which vary from three to twelve months, tested quarterly. If we default under our credit facility, and such event of default is not cured or waived, the. 18. Table of Contents. lender could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the debt to be due and payable immediately, which in turn could result in cross defaults under other debt instruments.. Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under all of our outstanding debt instruments if some or all of these instruments are accelerated upon a default. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future. The debt instruments governing such indebtedness could contain provisions that are as, or more, restrictive than our existing debt instruments. If we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness when payment is due, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness or force us into bankruptcy or liquidation.. Forecasts of market growth may prove to be inaccurate, and even if the market in which we compete achieves the forecasted growth, our business may not grow at similar rates, if at all.. We have in the past provided, and may continue to provide, forecasts related to the market in which we operate. Market forecasts are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates that may prove to be inaccurate. Even if these forecasts prove to be correct, we may not be successful in maintaining or increasing our share of any relevant market.. We depend on key personnel to operate our business, and if we are unable to retain, attract and integrate qualified personnel, our ability to develop and successfully grow our business could be harmed.. We believe that our future success is highly dependent on the contributions of our senior management, as well as our ability to attract and retain additional senior management and highly skilled and experienced technical and other personnel in the United States and abroad. All of our employees, including our senior management, are free to terminate their employment relationship with us at any time, and their knowledge of our business, technology and industry may be difficult to replace. Qualified technical personnel are in high demand, particularly in the digital media industry, and we may incur significant costs to attract them. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel also have greater resources than us. Additionally, volatility or lack of performance in our stock price may also affect our ability to attract employees and retain our key employees. If we are unable to attract and retain our senior management and key employees, our ability to develop and successfully grow our business could be harmed.. Defects or errors in our solutions could harm our reputation and result in significant costs to us.. The technology underlying our solutions, including our proprietary technology and technology provided by third-parties, may contain material defects or errors that can adversely affect our ability to operate our business and cause significant harm to our reputation. This risk is compounded by the complexity of the technology underlying our solutions and the large amounts of data we utilize. Errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems in our solutions could result in the failure of an ad campaign. Any such failure, malfunction, or disruption in service could harm our reputation and result in significant costs to us.. System failures could significantly disrupt our operations and cause us to lose clients.. Our success depends on the continuing and uninterrupted performance of our solutions. Sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to provide our solutions, including technological failures affecting our ability to process publisher ad requests or bids for inventory, could significantly reduce the attractiveness of our solutions and reduce our revenue. Our systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications failures, power outages, malicious human acts and natural disasters. In addition, any steps we take to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems may be expensive and may not be successful in preventing system failures. Any such system failures could significantly disrupt our operations and cause us to lose clients.. Security breaches, computer viruses and computer hacking attacks could harm our business and results of operations.. We collect, store and transmit information in the provision of our services. We take steps to protect the security, integrity and confidentiality of the information we collect, store or transmit, but there is no guarantee that inadvertent or unauthorized use or disclosure will not occur or that third-parties will not gain unauthorized access to this information despite our efforts. Security breaches, computer malware and computer hacking attacks have become more prevalent in our industry and may occur on our systems or those of our information technology vendors in the future. Any security breach caused by hacking, which involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems, or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or. 19. Table of Contents. corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, or the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses or other harmful software code could result in the unauthorized disclosure, misuse, or loss of information, legal claims and litigation, indemnity obligations, regulatory fines and penalties, contractual obligations and liabilities, and other liabilities. In addition, if our security measures or those of our vendors are breached or unauthorized access to consumer data otherwise occurs our solutions may be perceived as not being secure, and our clients may reduce the use of or stop using our solutions.. While we have security measures in place, these systems and networks are subject to ongoing threats and, therefore, these security measures may be breached as a result of employee error, failure to implement appropriate processes and procedures, malfeasance, third-party action, including cyber-attacks or other international misconduct by computer hackers or otherwise. This could result in one or more third-parties obtaining unauthorized access to our client data or our data, including personally identifiable information or other viewer data, intellectual property and other confidential business information. Third-parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to client data or our data, including intellectual property and other confidential business information.. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative or mitigation measures. Though it is difficult to determine what harm may directly result from any specific interruption or breach, any failure to maintain performance, reliability, security and availability of our network infrastructure or otherwise to maintain the confidentiality, security, and integrity of data that we store or otherwise maintain on behalf of third-parties may harm our reputation and our relationships or harm our ability to retain existing clients and attract new clients. Any of these could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If such unauthorized disclosure or access does occur, we may be required to notify our clients or those persons whose information was improperly used, disclosed or accessed. We may also be subject to claims of breach of contract for such use or disclosure, investigation and penalties by regulatory authorities and potential claims by persons whose information was improperly used or disclosed. The unauthorized use or disclosure of information may result in the termination of one or more of our commercial relationships or a reduction in confidence and usage of our solutions. We may also be subject to litigation and regulatory action alleging the improper use, transmission or storage of confidential information, which could damage our reputation among our current and potential clients, require significant expenditures of capital and other resources and cause us to lose business and revenue.. Even if we do not suffer a data security breach, the increase in the number and the scope of data security incidents has increased regulatory and industry focus on security requirements and heightened data security industry practices. New regulation, evolving industry standards, and the interpretation of both, may cause us to incur additional expense in complying with any new data security requirements. Further, any actual or perceived threats to the security of computers and computer networks, especially mobile devices and mobile networks, could lead existing and potential users to refrain from responding to online video advertising.. Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party data centers or other third-party hosting services could impair the delivery of our solutions and harm our business.. We utilize data center hosting facilities as well Amazon Web Services to deliver our solutions. We also rely on multiple bandwidth providers, multiple internet service providers, as well as content delivery network, or CDN providers, and domain name systems, or DNS providers, and mobile networks to deliver video ads. Any damage to, or failure of, these systems could result in interruptions to the availability or functionality of our service. If for any reason our arrangements with our data center hosting facilities or third-party providers are terminated, we could experience additional expense in arranging for new facilities, technology services and support. In addition, the failure of our data center hosting facilities or any other third-party providers to meet our capacity requirements could result in interruptions in the availability or functionality of our solutions or impede our ability to scale our operations.. The occurrence of a natural disaster, an act of terrorism, vandalism or sabotage, a decision to close our third-party data center hosting facilities or the facilities of any third-party provider without adequate notice, or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in the availability of our solutions. While we have disaster recovery arrangements in place, they have not been tested under actual disasters or similar events and may not effectively permit us to continue to provide our solutions in the event of any problems with respect to our data center hosting facilities or any other third-party facilities. To date, we have not experienced these types of events, but we cannot provide any assurances that they will not occur in the future. If any such event were to occur to our business, the delivery of our solutions could be impaired and our business harmed.. 20. Table of Contents. We intend to relocate our headquarters and we could experience unanticipated costs and disruption to our operations in connection with our relocation.. In October of 2017 we entered into a lease for our new corporate headquarters at 222 Broadway, New York, New York.  We intend to relocate to this new office in the second quarter of 2018.  In connection with this relocation we could experience unexpected costs or disruptions to our operations and diversion of management attention.  Additionally, we are in the process of identifying a subtenant for our existing principal executive offices.  We may be unable to identify a subtenant for this office space on acceptable terms.  Even if we do identify a subtenant, if the subtenant is unable to meet its obligations under the sublease, we may remain responsible for the obligations under the lease.. Our net operating loss carryforwards may expire unutilized or underutilized, which could prevent us from offsetting future taxable income.. We may be limited in the portion of net operating loss carry-forwards, or NOLs, that we can use in the future to offset taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As of December 31, 2017, we had U.S. Federal and State NOLs of $100.8 million and $56.9 million, respectively and foreign NOLs of $14.5 million related to our operations in United Kingdom, Germany and Brazil. Our U.S. federal NOLs will expire in various years beginning in 2025 through 2036. Our foreign NOLs can be carried forward without limitation in each respective country. While we expect to be able to use a portion of our available NOL's to offset gain in respect of the sale of our buyer platform, a lack of future taxable income would adversely affect our ability to utilize the remaining NOLs. In addition, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its NOLs to offset future taxable income. We believe that we experienced an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code in prior years that may limit our ability to utilize a portion of the NOLs in the future.  In addition, future changes in our stock ownership, including as a result of this and future offerings, as well as other changes that may be outside of our control, could result in additional ownership changes under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Our NOLs may also be impaired under similar provisions of state law. We have recorded a full valuation allowance related to substantially all of our NOLs and other deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty of the ultimate realization of the future benefits of those assets, a portion of which is expected to be reversed in connection with the sale of our buyer platform. Our NOLs may expire unutilized or underutilized, which could prevent us from offsetting future taxable income.. We may experience fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. We are subject to taxation in the United States and in numerous other jurisdictions. We record tax expense based on current tax payments and our estimates of future tax payments, which may include reserves for estimates of probable settlements of tax audits. At any one time, multiple tax years could be subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. As a result, we could be subject to higher than anticipated tax liabilities as well as ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as audits close and exposures are re-evaluated. Further, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, changes in the mix of revenue among different jurisdictions, changes to accounting rules and changes to our ownership or capital structure. Fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate could adversely affect our business.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,\" or the TCJA, which significantly amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. The TCJA, among other things, reduces the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, limits the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings, eliminates net operating loss carrybacks, imposes a one-time tax on offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, allows immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modifies or repeals many business deductions and credits. We continue to examine the impact these changes may have on our business. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the TCJA is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Taxing authorities may successfully assert that we should have collected or in the future should collect sales and use, value added or similar taxes, and we could be subject to liability with respect to past or future sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. We do not collect sales and use, value added or similar taxes in all jurisdictions in which we have sales based on our belief that such taxes are not applicable. Sales and use, value added and similar tax laws and rates vary greatly by jurisdiction. Certain jurisdictions in which we do not collect such taxes may assert that such taxes are applicable, which could result in tax assessments, penalties and interest and we may be required to collect such taxes in the future. Such tax assessments, penalties and interest or future requirements may adversely affect our business and operating results.. 21. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to Our Data Collection and Intellectual Property. We collect and use significant amounts of data to provide our seller platform, and any limitations on the collection and use of such data could significantly diminish the value of our solutions.. Our ability to increase adoption of our seller platform depends, in part, on our ability to collect and lawfully use data, including data that we receive from third parties, such as our publishers, buyers and third-party data providers.   Any limitation on our ability to collect user data could make it more difficult for us to optimize sales of inventory and meet the demands of our publishers.. Our technology collects data about an online user in order to operate and enhance our seller platform (that is, to enable the placement of video ads on publisher inventory). We, and our third-party data providers, employ various tracking technologies to collect such data.. Internet users can, with increasing ease, implement practices or technologies that may limit our ability, or that of our third-party data providers, to collect data. For example, users may delete or block the use of the cookies used to collect data, including through their browser or mobile device settings. Internet users may also download \"ad blocking\" software that prevents certain cookies from being stored on a user's computer or mobile device, including to prevent the display of targeted advertisements. Additionally, many applications and other online services allow users to avoid receiving advertisements by paying for subscriptions or services.. In addition, current versions of the most widely used web browsers allow users to send \"Do Not Track\" signals, to indicate that they do not wish to have their web usage tracked. There is currently no definition of \"tracking\" and no standards regarding how to respond to a \"Do Not Track\" preference that are accepted or standardized in the industry. Any such standard, law, or regulation could limit our ability to use online user data, which may diminish our ability to optimize inventory, and the value of our services, and place us at a competitive disadvantage to first-party data owners, such as large website operators, many of whom own or are developing or acquiring capabilities that compete with our solutions.. Finally, network carriers, providers of mobile device operating systems, and device manufacturers may also affect our ability to collect data on internet-connected devices, as they are increasingly promoting features that allow users to impair or disable the collection of data.. If consumer sentiment regarding privacy issues or the development and deployment of new browser solutions or other mechanisms that limit the use of tracking technologies or data collected through the use of such technologies results in a material increase in the number of consumers who block our collection of data, our ability to collect valuable and actionable data would be impaired. Consumers may become increasingly resistant to the collection, use, and sharing of data for targeted advertising and may take steps to prevent such collection and use.. Internet users also have the ability to block the ads that we deliver.  Technologies have emerged that block the display of an online advertisement. Estimates of the use of such ad-blocking technologies vary by user population, type of media content, geography, and other factors, and the ultimate prevalence and effect of ad-blocking technologies are not certain, but they could have an adverse effect on our business if they reduce the volume of advertising we are able to deliver. Even if ad-blocking technologies do not have a material impact on our business, investor concerns about such technologies could cause our stock price to decline.. In order to effectively operate our services, and in addition to the data we may collect directly from online users, we collect data from buyers, publishers, and other third parties. If we are not able to obtain sufficient rights to data from these third parties, we may not be able to utilize the data in our solutions. Although our arrangements with publishers generally permit us to collect data from advertising campaigns on their sites, some of our publishers do not allow us to collect some or all of this data or limit our use of this data, and future publishers may do the same.. We and/or many of our publishers and buyers voluntarily participate in trade associations and industry self-regulatory groups that promulgate best practice guidelines or codes of conduct in connection with the delivery of online targeted advertising. We could be adversely affected by changes to these guidelines and codes that are inconsistent with our practices If we are perceived as not operating in accordance with industry best practices or codes, either because of our practices, or those of our third-party data providers, our reputation may suffer, we could lose relationships with publishers and buyers, and we could be subject to proceedings or actions by governmental entities or others as described below.. 22. Table of Contents. Our business is subject to a variety of domestic and international laws, rules, and other obligations regarding data protection.. We are subject to a complex array of federal, state, and international laws relating to the collection, use, retention, disclosure, security, and transfer of personal data.  Many jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions, including regulating the level of notice and consent required to use cookies or other tools to collect data from online users.  The European General Data Protection Regulation, or (\"GDPR\"), will be in effect as of May 2018.  Complying with the GDPR and other emerging and changing laws and requirements, including as we expand our operations globally, may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices.  Noncompliance could result in penalties or significant legal liability and could affect our ability to retain and attract customers.. Any failure by us, our customers, our data suppliers, or other parties with whom we do business to comply with federal, state, or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others.  Any alleged or actual failure to comply with applicable privacy laws and regulations may:.      cause our customers to lose confidence in our solutions;.      harm our reputation;.      expose us to litigation and liability; and.      require us to incur significant expenses for remediation.. If web, smartphones, tablet and CTV devices, their operating systems or content distribution channels, including those controlled by our competitors, develop in ways that prevent our solutions from working effectively, our ability to grow our business could be impaired.. Our business model depends upon the continued compatibility of our solutions with most internet-connected devices across online, mobile, tablet, CTV and OTT distribution channels, as well as the major operating systems that run on them. The design of these devices and operating systems are controlled by third-parties with whom we do not have any formal relationships. These parties frequently introduce new devices, and from time to time they may introduce new operating systems or modify existing ones. In some cases, the parties that control the development of internet-connected devices and operating systems include companies that we regard as our competitors, including some of our most significant competitors.  If our solutions were unable to work or we were unable to collect data on these devices or operating systems, either because of technological constraints or because a maker of these devices or developer of these operating systems wished to impair our ability to sell video ads on them, our ability to grow our business could be impaired.. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights could negatively impact our business.. We regard the protection of our intellectual property, which includes trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks and domain names as critical to our success. We strive to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights, as well as contractual restrictions. We generally enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with parties, with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to, and disclosure and use of, our proprietary information. However, we may not be successful in executing these agreements with every party who has access to our confidential information or contributes to the development of our intellectual property.. Those agreements that we do execute may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. These contractual arrangements and the other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property, or deter independent development of similar intellectual property by others. Breaches of the security of our solutions, databases or other resources could expose us to a risk of loss or unauthorized disclosure of information collected, stored, or transmitted for or on behalf of publishers, or of cookies, data stored in cookies, other user information, or other proprietary or confidential information.. We register certain domain names, trademarks and service marks in the United States and in certain locations outside the United States. Any of our trademarks or other intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. Any patents that may be issued in the future may not adequately protect our intellectual property or provide us with competitive advantages, or may be successfully challenged by third-parties. Our competitors and others could attempt to capitalize on our brand recognition by using domain names or business names similar to ours. Domain names similar to ours have been registered in the United States and elsewhere. We may be unable to prevent third-parties from acquiring or using domain names and other trademarks that infringe on, are similar to, or otherwise decrease the value of our brands, trademarks or service marks. Effective trade secret, copyright, trademark, domain name and patent protection are expensive to develop and maintain, both in terms of initial and ongoing registration requirements and the costs of defending our. 23. Table of Contents. rights. We may be required to protect our intellectual property in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and may not be successful or which we may not pursue in every location. We may, over time, increase our investment in protecting our intellectual property through patent filings that could be expensive and time-consuming.. Additionally, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or AIA, among other things, switched U.S. patent rights from the former \"first-to-invent\" system to a \"first inventor-to-file\" system. This may result in inventors and companies having to file patent applications more frequently to preserve rights in their inventions. This may favor larger competitors that have the resources to file more patent applications.. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights and intellectual property may not be adequate to prevent their misappropriation or misuse. Further, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Our competitors may also independently develop similar technology, which avoids infringing on our intellectual property rights. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which our solutions or technology are hosted or available. Further, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. The laws in the United States and elsewhere change rapidly, and any future changes could adversely affect us and our intellectual property. Our failure to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could result in competitors offering solutions that incorporate our most technologically advanced features, which could seriously reduce demand for our solutions. In addition, we may in the future find it necessary or appropriate to initiate infringement claims or litigation, whether to protect our intellectual property or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the intellectual property rights of others. Litigation, whether we are a plaintiff or a defendant, can be expensive, time-consuming and may divert the efforts of our technical staff and managerial personnel, which could harm our business, whether or not such litigation results in a determination that is unfavorable to us. In addition, litigation is inherently uncertain. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third-parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property.. Our business may suffer if it is alleged or determined that our solutions or another aspect of our business infringes the intellectual property rights of others.. The online advertising industry is characterized by the existence of large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property and proprietary rights. Companies in this industry are often required to defend against litigation claims that are based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use.. Our success depends, in part, upon non-infringement of intellectual property rights owned by others and being able to resolve claims of intellectual property infringement or misappropriation without major financial expenditures or adverse consequences. From time to time we face claims by third-parties that we infringe upon or misappropriate their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon or to have misappropriated such rights. Such claims may be made by competitors or other parties. We cannot assure you that we are not infringing or violating any third-party intellectual property rights. From time to time, we or our clients may be subject to legal proceedings relating to our solutions or underlying technology and the intellectual property rights of others, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business. As a result of disclosure of information in filings required of a public company, our business and financial condition will become more visible, which we believe may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third-parties.. Regardless of whether claims that we are infringing patents or infringing or misappropriating other intellectual property rights have any merit, these claims are time-consuming and costly to evaluate and defend, and can impose a significant burden on management and employees. The outcome of any litigation is inherently uncertain, and we may receive unfavorable interim or preliminary rulings in the course of litigation. There can be no assurances that favorable final outcomes will be obtained in all cases. We may decide to settle lawsuits and disputes on terms that are unfavorable to us. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do and are able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater degree and for longer periods of time than we could. Claims that we are infringing patents or other intellectual property rights could:.  subject us to significant liabilities for monetary damages, which may be tripled in certain instances, and the attorney's fees of others;. 24. Table of Contents.  prohibit us from developing, commercializing or continuing to provide some or all of our solutions unless we obtain licenses from, and pay royalties to, the holders of the patents or other intellectual property rights, which may not be available on commercially favorable terms, or at all;.  subject us to indemnification obligations or obligations to refund fees to, and adversely affect our relationships with, our current or future publishers;.  result in injunctive relief against us, or otherwise result in delays or stoppages in providing all or certain aspects of our solutions;.  cause publishers to avoid working with us;.  divert the attention and resources of management and technical personnel; and.  require technology or branding changes to our solutions that would cause us to incur substantial cost and that we may be unable to execute effectively or at all.. We use open source software in our solutions that may subject our technology to general release or require us to re-engineer our solutions, which may cause harm to our business.. Our technology incorporates or is distributed with software or data licensed from third-parties, including some software distributed under so-called \"open source\" licenses, which we use without charge. Some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third-parties certain rights of further use. By the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software, and to make our proprietary software available under open source licenses, if we combine and/or distribute our proprietary software with open source software in certain manners. Although we monitor our use of open source software, we cannot be sure that all open source software is reviewed prior to use in our proprietary software, that our programmers have not incorporated open source software into our proprietary software, or that they will not do so in the future. Additionally, the terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts. There is a risk that open source software licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide our solutions to our clients. In addition, the terms of open source software licenses may require us to provide software that we develop, using such open source software, to others, including our competitors, on unfavorable license terms. As a result of our current or future use of open source software, we may face claims or litigation, be required to release our proprietary source code, pay damages for breach of contract, re-engineer our technology, discontinue sales in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results.. We rely on data, other technology, and intellectual property licensed from other parties, the failure or loss of which could increase our costs and delay or prevent the delivery of our solutions.. We utilize various types of data, other technology, and intellectual property licensed from unaffiliated third-parties in order to provide certain elements of our solutions. Any errors or defects in any third-party data or other technology could result in errors in our solutions that could harm our business and damage our reputation and losses in revenue, and we could be required to spend significant amounts of additional research and development resources to fix any problems. In addition, licensed technology, data, and intellectual property may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any of these on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, could result in delays in producing or delivering our solutions until equivalent data, other technology, or intellectual property is identified and integrated, which delays could harm our business. In this situation we would be required to either redesign our solutions to function with technology, data or intellectual property available from other parties or to develop these components ourselves, which would result in increased costs. Furthermore, we might be forced to limit the features available in our current or future solutions. If we fail to maintain or renegotiate any of these technology or intellectual property licenses, we could face significant delays and diversion of resources in attempting to develop similar or replacement technology, or to license and integrate a functional equivalent of the technology or intellectual property. The occurrence of any of these events may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Risks Related to Being a Public Company and Public Company Financial Reporting. 25. Table of Contents. We have identified in the past a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal and disclosure controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements and other disclosures on a timely basis could be impaired.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, that meet the applicable standards. We may err in the design or operation of our controls. In addition, a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud will be detected.. We are required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to principal-agent considerations around revenue recognition. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of the material weakness, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective for fiscal year 2015 and engaged in implementing a remediation plan designed to address the material weakness. While we have remediated the material weakness we identified, we may in the future discover areas of our internal controls over financial reporting that need improvement.  If additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. In addition, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources and could lead to substantial additional costs for accounting and legal fees.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act also generally requires an attestation from an independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As an \"emerging growth company\" under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups, or JOBS Act, we have in the past availed ourselves of the exemption from that requirement[, including in this Annual Report.  However, when we cease to be an \"emerging growth company\" at the end of the fiscal year ending December 31, 2018, we will no longer be able to avail ourselves of this exemption. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating.. This may require us to incur substantial additional professional fees and internal costs to expand our accounting and finance functions and to expend significant management efforts to remediate the concerns expressed by our independent registered public accounting firm. We may not be able to remediate any future material weaknesses, or to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion.. If we identify new or additional material weaknesses in our internal controls, or we are not able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective when they are required to issue such opinion, investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could harm our stock price,  and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, the SEC or other regulatory authorities.  Failure to remediate any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, or to implement or maintain other effective control systems required of public companies, could also restrict our future access to the capital markets.. Our accounting is becoming more complex, and relies upon estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies. If our accounting is erroneous or based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our operating results could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price.. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or U.S. GAAP, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes, and also to comply with many complex requirements and standards. We devote substantial resources to compliance with accounting requirements and we base our estimates on our best judgment, historical experience, information derived from third parties, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities, equity, revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. However, various factors, including the recent sale of our buyer platform, are causing our accounting to become complex. Ongoing evolution of our business, and any future. 26. Table of Contents. acquisitions or dispositions, will compound these complexities. Our operating results may be adversely affected if we make accounting errors or our judgments prove to be wrong, assumptions change or actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors or guidance we may have provided, resulting in a decline in our stock price and potential legal claims. Significant judgments, assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, business combinations, and income taxes.. Risks associated with being a public company.. As a public company, and particularly after we cease to be an \"emerging growth company\" at the end of the fiscal year ending December 31, 2018, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and NYSE impose numerous requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to compliance with these laws and regulations. These requirements have increased and will continue to increase our legal, accounting, and financial compliance costs and have made and will continue to make some activities more time consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance compared to when we were a private company. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or our board committees or as executive officers.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors.. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. Between January 1, 2017 and February 26, 2018, our stock price has ranged from $1.90 per share to $5.27  per share. In addition, the trading prices of the securities of advertising technology companies in general have been highly volatile, and the volatility in market price and trading volume of securities is often unrelated or disproportionate to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. In addition to the factors discussed in this \"Risk Factors\" section and elsewhere in our public filings with the SEC, factors affecting the market price of our common stock include:.  price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, or in the market for the stock of comparable companies, from time to time;.  adverse changes in the regulatory environment;.  actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results or the results of our competitors;.  changes in the market perception of online video advertising platforms generally or in the effectiveness of our solutions in particular;.  a lack of trading volume in our common stock;. 톋nnouncements of technological innovations, new solutions, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors;.  issuance of new or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations for our or our competitors' stock;.  litigation involving us;.  changes in general economic, industry and market conditions and trends;.  recruitment or departure of key personnel;.  announcements of acquisitions or dispositions, including the sale of the Company's buyer platform; and. 27. Table of Contents.  the other factors described in this section of the report titled \"Risk Factors.\". In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action or derivative litigation has often been brought against that company and its officers and directors. In November 2013, a class action lawsuit was filed against us, alleging certain misrepresentations in connection with our initial public offering. The claim was dismissed in March 2015. Because of the potential volatility of our stock price, we may become the target of additional securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources from our business.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that they might occur, could reduce the price that our common stock might otherwise attain and may dilute your voting power and your ownership interest in us.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that a substantial number of shares could be sold, including under our shelf registration statement filed with the SEC on November 6, 2017, could reduce the market price of our common stock. As of February 26, 2018, we had 52,017,481 shares of common stock outstanding.. In addition, an aggregate of 5,100,068 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of options outstanding as of December 31, 2017 will become available for sale immediately upon the exercise of such option awards.. We have also registered for offer and sale all shares of common stock that we may issue under our stock-based compensation plans, including our employee stock purchase plan. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance. Sales of common stock by existing stockholders in the public market, whether as part of an underwritten public offering or pursuant to exemptions from registration, the availability of these shares for sale, our issuance of securities or the perception that any of these events might occur could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, the sale of these securities could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional stock.. In addition, in the future, we may issue additional shares of common stock or other equity or debt securities convertible into common stock in connection with a financing, acquisition, litigation settlement, and employee arrangements or otherwise. Any such issuance could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and could cause our stock price to decline.. Concentration of ownership of our common stock among our existing executive officers, directors and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions.. Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders and their respective affiliates beneficially owned, in the aggregate, a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2017. These persons, acting together, are able to significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger or other significant corporate transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish, or cease publishing, research or reports about us, our business or our market, if they publish negative evaluations of our stock, or if we fail to meet the expectations of analysts, the price of our stock and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. We do not have any control over these analysts, and their reports or analyst consensus may not reflect our guidance, plans or expectations. If one or more of the analysts covering our business issues an adverse opinion of our company because we fail to meet their expectations or otherwise, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts cease to cover our stock, we could lose visibility in the market for our stock, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline.. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws as well as provisions of Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our board of directors or management and, therefore, depress the price of our common stock.. 28. Table of Contents. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock or transactions that our stockholders might otherwise deem to be in their best interests. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove members of our board of directors or our management. Therefore, these provisions could adversely affect the price of our stock. Our corporate governance documents include provisions:.  establishing a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms so that not all members of our board of directors are elected at one time;.  providing that directors may be removed by stockholders only for cause;.  preventing the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting;.  requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors;.  permitting the board of directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock with any rights, preferences and privileges as they may designate;.  limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers;.  providing that vacancies may be filled by remaining directors;.  preventing cumulative voting; and.  providing for a supermajority requirement to amend our bylaws.. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in a broad range of business combinations with any \"interested\" stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an \"interested\" stockholder. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock."
