[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors and other information included in this Report should be carefully considered. Please also see \"Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" on page 3.. Set forth below are descriptions of certain risks relating to our business.. Unfavorable economic and market conditions could reduce our sales and profitability and as a result, our operating results may be adversely affected.. Our business has been affected by general business and economic conditions, and these conditions could have an impact on future demand for our products. The global economy remains unstable, and we expect the economic environment to continue to be challenging. Economic uncertainty may give households less confidence to make discretionary purchases.. There could be a number of other effects from these economic developments on our business, including reduced consumer demand for products; insolvency of our customers, resulting in increased provisions for credit losses; insolvency of our key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of retailers and consumers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products; decreased consumer confidence; decreased retail demand, including order delays or cancellations; counterparty failures negatively impacting our treasury operations; inability for us, our customers and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand trends; and adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. If such conditions are experienced in future periods, our industry, business and results of operations may be severely impacted.. Our sales growth is dependent upon our ability to implement strategic initiatives and actions taken to increase sales growth may not be effective.. Our ability to generate sales growth is dependent upon a number of factors, including the following:. • our ability to continuously improve our products to offer new and enhanced consumer benefits and better quality;. • the ability of our future product launches to increase net sales;. • the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns and other marketing programs in building product and brand awareness, driving traffic to our distribution channels and increasing sales;. • our ability to expand into new distribution channels and grow our existing channels;. • our ability to continue to successfully execute our strategic initiatives;. • the level of consumer acceptance of our products; and. • general economic factors that impact consumer confidence, disposable income or the availability of consumer financing.. 10. Table of Contents. Our new product launches may not be successful due to development delays, failure of new products to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance and significant costs associated with failed product introductions, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. Each year we invest significant time and resources in research and development to improve our product offerings and launch new products. We are planning a major product launch for our Tempur products in the U.S. in 2018, and our financial performance for 2018 is substantially dependent on the success of this launch. There are a number of risks inherent in our new product line introductions, including that the anticipated level of market acceptance may not be realized, which could negatively impact our sales. Also, introduction costs, the speed of the rollout of the product and manufacturing inefficiencies may be greater than anticipated, which could impact profitability.. We operate in the highly competitive mattress and pillow industries, and if we are unable to compete successfully, we may lose customers and our sales may decline.. Participants in the mattress and pillow industries compete primarily on price, quality, brand name recognition, product availability and product performance across a range of distribution channels.. A number of our significant competitors offer mattress and pillow products that compete directly with our products. Any such competition by established manufacturers or new entrants into the market could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, mattress and pillow manufacturers and retailers are seeking to increase their channels of distribution and are looking for new ways to reach the consumer, including the recent expansion in the number of companies pursuing online direct-to-consumer models for foam mattresses and in retailers offering their own lines of mattresses. In addition, retailers in the U.S. and internationally have integrated vertically in the furniture and bedding industries, and it is possible that such vertical integration may create circumstances that would negatively impact our net sales and results of operations. The pillow industry is characterized by a large number of competitors, none of which are dominant. The highly competitive nature of the mattress and pillow industries means we are continually subject to the risk of loss of market share, loss of significant customers, reductions in margins, and the inability to acquire new customers.. Because we depend on our significant customers, a decrease or interruption in their business with us would reduce our sales and results of operations.. No customer represented 10.0% or more of our net sales for 2017. Our top five customers, collectively and including Mattress Firm, accounted for approximately 22.8% of our sales for 2017. The credit environment in which our customers operate has been relatively stable over the past few years. We expect that some of the retailers that carry our products may consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, experience financial difficulty, or realign their affiliations, any of which could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration in the retail industry. An increase in the concentration of our sales to large customers may negatively affect our profitability due to the impact of volume and other incentive programs related to these customers. Furthermore, as sales to our large customers grow, our credit exposure to these customers may also increase. Some of these retailers may decide to carry only a limited number of brands of mattress products, which could affect our ability to sell products to them on favorable terms, if at all. A substantial decrease or interruption in business from these significant customers could result in the loss of future business and could reduce liquidity and profitability. In addition, the timing of large purchases by these customers could have an increasingly significant impact on our quarterly net sales and earnings.. We terminated our relationship with Mattress Firm, previously a customer in the North America segment, in 2017. Mattress Firm represented 21.4% and 23.7% of the Company's sales for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.. 11. Table of Contents. We are subject to a pending tax proceeding in Denmark, and an adverse decision or a negotiated settlement could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows.. We have received income tax assessments from the Danish Tax Authority (\"SKAT\"). We believe the process to reach a final resolution of this matter could potentially extend over a number of years. If we are not successful in defending our position that we owe no additional taxes, we could be required to pay a significant amount to SKAT. In addition, we are pursuing a settlement with SKAT, which could also require us to pay a significant amount to SKAT. Each of these outcomes could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, prior to any ultimate resolution of this issue before the Danish National Tax Tribunal (\"Tribunal\"), the appeals division within SKAT, or the Danish courts, or a settlement of the matter with SKAT, based on a change in facts and circumstances, we may be required to further increase our uncertain tax liability associated with this matter, which could have a material impact on our reported earnings. For a description of these assessments and additional information with respect to these assessments please refer to Note 13, \"Income Taxes,\" in our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, ITEM 8 of this Report, and \"Management's Discussion and Analysis\" included in Part II, ITEM 7 of this Report.. Changes in tax laws and regulations or other factors could cause our income tax rate to increase, potentially reducing net income and adversely affecting cash flows, and fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility of our financial results and stock price.. We are subject to taxation in various jurisdictions around the world and at any one time multiple tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. In preparing financial statements, we calculate our annual effective income tax rate based on current tax laws and regulations and the estimated taxable income within each of these jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate, however, may be higher due to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, changes in accounting methods or policies, tax laws or regulations, the tax litigation environment in each such jurisdiction, and the outcome of pending or future audits, whether the result of litigation or negotiations with taxing authorities. Each such item may result in a tax liability that differs from our original estimate. An effective income tax rate that is significantly higher than currently anticipated could have an adverse effect on our net income and cash flows. In addition, there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as events occur and exposures are evaluated, which could adversely affect our quarterly results of operations and stock price.. Officials in some of the jurisdictions in which we do business have proposed or announced that they are considering changes in tax laws and/or other revenue raising laws and regulations, including how U.S. multi-national corporations are taxed on earnings. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (public law 115-97, the \"U.S. Tax Reform Act\").  The estimated impacts of the U.S. Tax Reform Act recorded during 2017, as well as the forward-looking estimates, are provisional in nature, and we will continue to assess the impact of the U.S. Tax Reform Act and provide additional information and record adjustments through the income tax provision in the relevant period as amounts are known and reasonably estimable during the measurement period. Accordingly, the impact of the U.S. Tax Reform Act may differ from the our provisional estimates due to and among other factors, information currently not available, changes in interpretations and the issuance of additional guidance, as well as changes in assumptions we have currently made, including actions that we may take in future periods as a result of the U.S. Tax Reform Act.. Additionally, the global tax environment is becoming more complex, with government tax authorities becoming increasingly more aggressive in asserting claims for taxes. Any resulting changes in tax laws or regulations could increase our effective income tax rate or impose new restrictions, costs or prohibitions on our current practices and reduce our net income and adversely affect our cash flows.. In addition to the increased activity of taxing authorities with respect to income tax, taxing authorities are also becoming more aggressive in asserting claims for indirect taxes such as import duties and value added tax. These types of claims present risks and uncertainties similar to those discussed above. We believe we are in compliance with all tax laws and regulations that govern such indirect taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we do business.  However, because the claims taxing authorities assert often involve the question of internal product pricing, which is inherently subjective in nature, any such claim may require us to litigate the matter to defend our position or to negotiate a settlement on the matter with the taxing authorities that differs from the amount of potential exposure recorded in the financial statements.. 12. Table of Contents. We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security lapse of that technology, including cyber-based attacks, could harm our ability to effectively operate our business.. We are increasingly dependent on information technology, including the Internet, for the storage, processing, and transmission of our electronic, business-related information assets. We leverage our internal information technology, infrastructures, and those of our service providers, to enable, sustain and support our global business interests. As such, our ability to effectively manage our business depends significantly on our information systems. The failure of our current systems, or future upgrades, to operate effectively or to integrate with other systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause reduced efficiency of our operations, and remediation of any such failure, problem or breach could reduce our liquidity and profitability. Any disruptions caused by the failure of these systems could adversely impact our day-to-day business and decision making and could have a material adverse effect on our performance.. We are subject to laws and regulations relating to information technology security. For example, the GDPR, which is scheduled to take effect in May 2018, will impose a new and expanded set of compliance requirements on companies, including us, that collect or process personal data from citizens living in the European Union. While we have implemented a system in order to ensure compliance by the May 2018 deadline, that system may not be successful. Failure to comply with the GDPR could expose us to potentially significant liabilities.. We have successfully implemented a new enterprise resource planning, or \"ERP,\" system across several of our global subsidiaries. We are continuing this implementation and expanding into our North America segment. This new system will continue to replace a substantial portion of our legacy systems currently supporting our operations. If we are unable to successfully implement the replacement of the legacy systems, it could lead to a disruption in our business and unanticipated additional use of capital and other resources, which may adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, if the cost of implementing this ERP system increases above our estimates, this could have a significant adverse effect on our profitability.. In the event that we or our service providers are unable to prevent or detect and remediate cyber-based attacks or other security incidents in a timely manner, our operations could be disrupted or we may incur financial or reputational losses arising from the theft, misuse, unauthorized disclosure or destruction of our information assets.. Our leverage may limit our flexibility and increase our risk of default.. We operate in the ordinary course of our business with a certain amount of leverage. Our degree of leverage could have important consequences to our investors, such as:. • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments;. • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and other business opportunities;. • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness;. • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or investments or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate, placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged and who, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting;. • exposing us to variability in interest rates, as a substantial portion of our indebtedness is and will be at variable rates; and. • limiting our ability to return capital to our stockholders, including through share repurchases.. In addition, the instruments governing our debt contain financial and other restrictive covenants, which limit our operating flexibility and could prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities and reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in an event of default. If such event of default is not cured or waived, we may suffer adverse effects on our operations, business or financial condition, including acceleration of our debt. For further discussion regarding our debt covenants and compliance, refer to \"Management's Discussion and Analysis\" included in Part II, ITEM 7 of this Report and Note 7, \"Debt,\" in our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, ITEM 8 of this Report.. 13. Table of Contents. We may be unable to sustain our profitability, which could impair our ability to service our indebtedness and make investments in our business and could adversely affect the market price for our stock and increase our leverage.. Our ability to service our indebtedness depends on our ability to maintain our profitability. We may not be able to maintain our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in future periods. Further, our profitability will depend upon a number of factors, including without limitation:. • general economic conditions in the markets in which we sell our products and the impact on consumers and retailers;. • the level of competition in the mattress and pillow industry;. • our ability to successfully identify and respond to emerging trends in the mattress and pillow industry;. • our ability to successfully launch new products;. • our ability to effectively sell our products through our distribution channels in volumes sufficient to drive growth and leverage our cost structure and advertising spending;. • our ability to reduce costs, including our ability to align our cost structure with sales in the existing economic environment;. • our ability to successfully manage our relationships with our major customers;. • our ability to absorb fluctuations in commodity costs;. • our ability to maintain efficient, timely and cost-effective production and utilization of our manufacturing capacity; and. • our ability to maintain efficient, timely and cost-effective delivery of our products, and our ability to maintain public recognition of our brands.. We are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt, which could lead to an increase in interest expense.. We are subject to interest rate risk in connection with the variable rate debt under our debt agreements. Interest rate changes could increase the amount of our interest payments and thus, negatively impact our future earnings and cash flows. Although we refinanced a significant portion of our variable rate debt in 2016 and 2015 with fixed rate debt, we still have a significant amount of variable rate debt outstanding.  For information regarding our sensitivity to changes in interest rates, refer to \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk\" included in Part II, ITEM 7A of this Report.. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates, which could affect our results of operations, the costs of our products and our ability to sell our products in foreign markets.. Approximately 29% of our net sales were generated outside of the U.S. in 2017. As a multi-national company, we conduct our business in a wide variety of currencies and are therefore subject to market risk for changes in foreign exchange rates. If the U.S. dollar strengthened relative to the Euro or other foreign currencies where we have operations, there would be a negative impact on our operating results upon translation of those foreign operating results into the U.S. dollar. In 2017, foreign currency exchange rate changes negatively impacted our net income by approximately 1.3% and negatively impacted adjusted EBITDA, which is a non-U.S. generally accepted accounting principle (\"GAAP\") financial measure, by approximately 0.6%. In 2018, we expect foreign exchange may negatively impact our results of operations. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We do not hedge the translation of foreign currency operating results into the U.S. dollar.. We use foreign exchange forward contracts to manage a portion of the exposure to the risk of the eventual net cash inflows and outflows resulting from foreign currency denominated transactions among certain subsidiaries. These hedging transactions may not succeed in managing our foreign currency exchange rate risk.. Refer to \"Management's Discussion and Analysis\" included in Part II, ITEM 7 of this Report and \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk\" included in Part II, ITEM 7A of this Report for further discussion on the impact of foreign exchange rates on our operations.. 14. Table of Contents. We are subject to fluctuations in the cost of raw materials, and increases in these costs would reduce our liquidity and profitability.. The bedding industry has been challenged by volatility in the price of petroleum-based and steel products, which affects the cost of polyurethane foam, polyester, polyethylene foam and steel innerspring component parts. The price and availability of these raw materials are subject to market conditions affecting supply and demand. Given the significance of the cost of these materials to our products, volatility in the prices of the underlying commodities can significantly affect profitability. We currently expect increases in many of our commodity costs in 2018. To the extent we are unable to absorb higher costs, or pass any such higher costs to our customers, our gross margin could be negatively affected, which could result in a decrease in our liquidity and profitability.. We cannot guarantee that we will repurchase our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program or that our stock repurchase program will enhance long-term stockholder value. Stock repurchases could also increase the volatility of the price of our common stock and could diminish our cash reserves.. On February 1, 2016, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program pursuant to which the Company was authorized to repurchase shares of our common stock. During 2016 and 2017, our Board of Directors increased the total authorization to $800.0 million. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had repurchased 9.3 million shares for approximately $573.1 million under the share repurchase authorization and had approximately $226.9 million remaining under the existing share repurchase authorization. Although our Board of Directors has authorized the stock repurchase program, the stock repurchase program does not obligate us to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares and may be suspended or terminated at any time. Stock may be purchased from time to time, in the open market or through private transactions, subject to market conditions, in compliance with applicable state and federal securities laws. The timing and amount of repurchases, if any, will depend upon several factors, including market and business conditions, restrictions in our debt agreements, the trading price of our common stock and the nature of other investment opportunities. In addition, repurchases of our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program could affect the market price of our common stock or increase its volatility. For example, the existence of a stock repurchase program could cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. Additionally, our stock repurchase program could diminish our cash reserves, which may impact our ability to finance future growth and to pursue possible future strategic opportunities and acquisitions. There can be no assurance that any stock repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we determine to repurchase our stock. Although our stock repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, there is no assurance that it will do so and short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program's effectiveness.. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations, including as a result of seasonality, which could make sequential quarter-to-quarter comparisons an unreliable indication of our performance and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. A significant portion of our net sales are attributable to our Wholesale channel, particularly net sales to furniture and bedding stores. We believe that our sales of products to furniture and bedding stores are typically subject to modest seasonality inherent in the bedding industry, with sales expected to be generally lower in the second and fourth quarters. Our sales in a particular quarter can be impacted by new product launches. Additionally, the U.S. bedding industry generally experiences increases in sales around holidays and promotional periods. This seasonality means that a sequential quarter-to-quarter comparison may not be a good indication of our performance or of how we will perform in the future.. We are subject to risks from our international operations, such as complying with U.S. and foreign laws, foreign exchange exposure, tariffs, increased costs, political risks and our ability to expand in certain international markets, which could impair our ability to compete and our profitability.. We are a global company, selling our products in approximately 100 countries worldwide. We generated approximately 29% of our net sales outside of the U.S. in 2017, including in geographic areas where corruption has historically been a problem, and we continue to pursue additional international opportunities. We also participate in international license and joint venture arrangements with independent third parties. Our international operations are subject to the customary risks of operating in an international environment, including complying with U.S. laws affecting operations outside of the U.S. such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; complying with foreign laws and regulations, including disparate anti-corruption laws and regulations; risks associated with varying local business customs; and the potential imposition of trade or foreign exchange restrictions, tariffs and other tax increases, fluctuations in exchange rates, inflation and unstable political situations and labor issues. We are also limited in our ability to independently expand in certain international markets where we have granted licenses to manufacture and sell Sealy® bedding products. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between currencies in which we do business may affect our financial condition or results of operations.. 15. Table of Contents. If we are not able to protect our trade secrets or maintain our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property, we may not be able to prevent competitors from developing similar products or from marketing in a manner that capitalizes on our trademarks, and this loss of a competitive advantage could decrease our profitability and liquidity.. We rely on patents and trade secrets to protect the design, technology and function of our products. To date, we have not sought U.S. or international patent protection for our principal product formula for TEMPUR® material and certain of our manufacturing processes. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent others from developing certain visco-elastic material and products that are similar to or competitive with our products. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies also depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our owned and licensed intellectual property. We own a significant number of patents or have patent applications pending on some aspects of our products and certain manufacturing processes. However, the principal product formula and manufacturing processes for our TEMPUR® material are not patented and we must maintain these as trade secrets in order to protect this intellectual property. We own U.S. and foreign registered trademarks and service marks and have applications for the registration of trademarks and service marks pending domestically and abroad. We also license certain intellectual property rights from third parties.. Certain of our trademarks are currently registered in the U.S. and are registered or pending in foreign jurisdictions. Certain other trademarks are the subject of protection under common law. However, those rights could be circumvented, or violate the proprietary rights of others, or we could be prevented from using them if challenged. A challenge to our use of our trademarks could result in a negative ruling regarding our use of our trademarks, their validity or their enforceability, or could prove expensive and time consuming in terms of legal costs and time spent defending against such a challenge. Any loss of trademark protection could result in a decrease in sales or cause us to spend additional amounts on marketing, either of which could decrease our liquidity and profitability. In addition, if we incur significant costs defending our trademarks, that could also decrease our liquidity and profitability. In addition, we may not have the financial resources necessary to enforce or defend our trademarks. Furthermore, our patents may not provide meaningful protection and patents may never issue from pending applications. It is also possible that others could bring claims of infringement against us, as our principal product formula and manufacturing processes are not patented, and that any licenses protecting our intellectual property could be terminated. If we were unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property and our significant current or proposed products, this loss of a competitive advantage could result in decreased sales or increased operating costs, either of which would decrease our liquidity and profitability.. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights and confidential information to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. or the European Union. Third parties, including competitors, may assert intellectual property infringement or invalidity claims against us that could be upheld. Intellectual property litigation, which could result in substantial cost to and diversion of effort by us, may be necessary to protect our trade secrets or proprietary technology, or for us to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of others' proprietary rights. We may not prevail in any such litigation, and if we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on reasonable terms or at all.. Loss of suppliers and disruptions in the supply of our raw materials could increase our costs of sales and reduce our ability to compete effectively.. We acquire raw materials and certain components from a number of suppliers with manufacturing locations around the world. If we were unable to obtain raw materials and certain components from these suppliers for any reason, we would have to find replacement suppliers. Any substitute arrangements for raw materials and certain components might not be on terms as favorable to us. In addition, we outsource the procurement of certain goods and services from suppliers in foreign countries. If we were no longer able to outsource through these suppliers, we could source them elsewhere, perhaps at a higher cost. We maintain relatively small supplies of our raw materials and outsourced goods at our manufacturing facilities, and any disruption in the on-going shipment of supplies to us could interrupt production of our products, which could result in a decrease of our sales or could cause an increase in our cost of sales, either of which could decrease our liquidity and profitability.. Sealy product raw materials consist of polyurethane foam, polyester, polyethylene foam and steel innerspring components that we purchase from various suppliers. In the U.S. and Canada, we source the majority of our requirements for polyurethane foam components and spring components for our Sealy and Stearns & Foster mattress units from a key supplier for each component.  These components are purchased under supply agreements. We also purchase a significant portion of our Sealy foundation parts from third party sources under supply agreements. We do not consider ourselves to be dependent in the long term upon any single outside vendor as a source of supply to our bedding business, and we believe over time that sufficient alternative sources of supply for the same, similar or alternative components are available. However, if a key supplier for an applicable component failed to supply components in the amount we require this could significantly interrupt production of our products and increase our production costs in the near term.. 16. Table of Contents. The loss of the services of any members of our executive management team could impair our ability to execute our business strategy and as a result, reduce our sales and profitability.. We depend on the continued services of our executive management team. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to execute our business strategy and on our financial condition and results of operations. We do not maintain key-person insurance for members of our executive management team.. Deterioration in labor relations could disrupt our business operations and increase our costs, which could decrease our liquidity and profitability.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 7,000 full-time employees. Approximately 34.5% of our employees are represented by various labor unions with separate collective bargaining agreements or government labor union contracts for certain international locations. Our North American collective bargaining agreements, which are typically three years in length, expire at various times during any given three year period. Due to the large number of collective bargaining agreements, we are periodically in negotiations with certain of the unions representing our employees. We may at some point be subject to work stoppages by some of our employees and, if such events were to occur, there may be a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. Further, we may not be able to renew our various collective bargaining agreements on a timely basis or on favorable terms, or at all. Any significant increase in our labor costs could decrease our liquidity and profitability and any deterioration of employee relations, slowdowns or work stoppages at any of our locations, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could result in a decrease in our net sales or an increase in our costs, either of which could decrease our liquidity and profitability.. We may face exposure to product liability claims, which could reduce our liquidity and profitability and reduce consumer confidence in our products.. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims if the use of any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. In the event that any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall, redesign or even discontinue those products. We maintain insurance against product liability claims, but such coverage may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us or be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. A successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage could impair our liquidity and profitability, and any claim or product recall that results in significant adverse publicity against us could result in consumers purchasing fewer of our products, which would also impair our liquidity and profitability.. Regulatory requirements, including, but not limited to, trade, environmental, health and safety requirements, may require costly expenditures and expose us to liability.. Our products and our marketing and advertising programs are subject to regulation in the U.S. by various federal, state and local regulatory authorities, including the Federal Trade Commission and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. In addition, other governments and agencies in other jurisdictions regulate the sale and distribution of our products. These rules and regulations may change from time to time, or may conflict. There may be continuing costs of regulatory compliance including continuous testing, additional quality control processes and appropriate auditing of design and process compliance. For example, the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (\"CPSC\") and many foreign jurisdictions have adopted rules relating to fire retardancy standards for the mattress industry. Further, some states and the U.S. Congress continue to consider fire retardancy regulations that may be different or more stringent than the CPSC standard. Adoption of multi-layered regulatory regimes, particularly if they conflict with each other, could increase our costs, alter our manufacturing processes and impair the performance of our products which may have an adverse effect on our business. We are also subject to various health and environmental provisions, such as California Proposition 65 (the Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986) and 16 CFR Part 1633 (Standard for the Flammability (Open Flame) of Mattress Sets).. Our marketing and advertising practices could also become the subject of proceedings before regulatory authorities or the subject of claims by other parties and could require us to alter or end these practices or adopt new practices that are not as effective or are more expensive.. In addition, we are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to pollution, environmental protection and occupational health and safety. We may not be in complete compliance with all such requirements at all times. We have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental and health and safety requirements. If a release of hazardous substances occurs on or from our properties or any associated offsite disposal location, or if contamination from prior activities is discovered at any of our properties, we may be held liable and the amount of such liability could be material.. 17. Table of Contents. As a manufacturer of bedding and related products, we use and dispose of a number of substances, such as glue, lubricating oil, solvents and other petroleum products, as well as certain foam ingredients, that may subject us to regulation under numerous foreign, federal and state laws and regulations governing the environment. Among other laws and regulations, we are subject in the U.S. to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Air Act and related state and local statutes and regulations.. Our operations could also be impacted by a number of pending legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S. and other countries. Certain countries have adopted the Kyoto Protocol. New greenhouse gas reduction targets have been established under the Kyoto Protocol, as amended, and certain countries, including Denmark, have adopted the new reduction targets. This and other international initiatives under consideration could affect our International operations. These actions could increase costs associated with our operations, including costs for raw materials, pollution control equipment and transportation. Because it is uncertain what laws will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. We have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental and health and safety requirements. In the event contamination is discovered with respect to one or more of our current or former properties, government authorities or third parties may bring claims related to these properties, which could have a material effect on our profitability.. Our pension plans are currently underfunded and we may be required to make cash payments to the plans, reducing our available cash.. We maintain certain defined benefit pension plans. In addition, hourly employees working at certain of Sealy's domestic manufacturing facilities are covered by union sponsored retirement and health and welfare plans. These plans cover both active employees and retirees. The plans are currently underfunded, and under certain circumstances, including the decision to close or sell a facility, we could be required to pay amounts with respect to this underfunding. Such events may significantly impair our profitability and liquidity and the possibility of having to make these payments could affect our decision on whether to close or sell a particular facility. For more information, refer to Note 8, \"Retirement Plans,\" in our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, ITEM 8 of this Report.. Challenges to our pricing or promotional allowance policies or practices could adversely affect our operations.. Certain of our retail pricing and promotional allowance policies or practices are subject to antitrust regulations in the U.S. and abroad. If antitrust regulators or private parties in any jurisdiction in which we do business initiate investigations or claims that challenge our pricing or promotional allowance policies or practices, our efforts to respond could force us to divert management resources and we could incur significant unanticipated costs. If such an investigation or claim were to result in a charge that our practices or policies were in violation of applicable antitrust or other laws or regulations, we could be subject to significant additional costs of defending such charges in a variety of venues and, ultimately, if there were a finding that we were in violation of antitrust or other laws or regulations, there could be an imposition of fines, and damages for persons injured, as well as injunctive or other relief. Any requirement that we pay fines or damages (which, under the laws of certain jurisdictions, may be trebled) could decrease our liquidity and profitability, and any investigation or claim that requires significant management attention or causes us to change our business practices could disrupt our operations or increase our costs, also resulting in a decrease in our liquidity and profitability. An antitrust class action or individual suit against us could result in potential liabilities, substantial costs, treble damages, and the diversion of our management's attention and resources, regardless of the outcome.. Our stock price is likely to continue to be volatile, your investment could decline in value, and we may incur significant costs from class action litigation.. The trading price of our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to wide price fluctuations. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to various factors, including but not limited to:. • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly and annual operating results, including those resulting from seasonal variations in our business;. • general economic conditions, such as unemployment, changes in short-term and long-term interest rates and fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets;. • introductions or announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors;. • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters, and our ability to patent, or otherwise protect, our products and technologies;. 18. Table of Contents. • changes in estimates by securities analysts of our financial performance or the financial performance of our competitors or major customers or statements by others in the investment community relating to such performance;. • stock repurchase programs;. • bankruptcies of any of our major customers;. • loss of any of our major customers;. • conditions or trends in the mattress industry generally;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • announcements by us or our competitors or significant retailer customers of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. • announcements by our competitors or our major customers of their quarterly operating results or announcements by our competitors or our major customers of their views on trends in the bedding industry;. • regulatory developments in the U.S. and abroad;. • economic and political factors;. • public announcements or filings with the SEC indicating that significant stockholders, directors or officers are buying or selling shares of our common stock; and. • the declaration or suspension of a cash dividend.. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. These broad market factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in potential liabilities, substantial costs, and the diversion of our management's attention and resources, regardless of the outcome. See \"Legal Proceedings\" included in Part I, ITEM 3 of this Report.. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price.. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur. In addition, these factors could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. All shares of our common stock are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act, except for certain shares of our common stock which were purchased by our executive officers, directors, principal stockholders, and some related parties.. We have stockholders who presently beneficially own more than 5.0% of our outstanding capital stock. Sales or other dispositions of our shares by these major stockholders may depress our stock price.. Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions, and our Board of Directors has adopted a limited duration stockholder rights agreement, any of which could delay or discourage a merger, tender offer, or assumption of control of the Company not approved by our Board of Directors that some stockholders may consider favorable.. Provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could hamper a third party's acquisition of us, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. You may not have the opportunity to participate in these transactions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include:. • our ability to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock without any further vote or action by the holders of our common stock;. • the requirements that our stockholders provide advance notice when nominating our directors; and. • the inability of our stockholders to convene a stockholders' meeting without the chairperson of the Board of Directors, the president, or a majority of the Board of Directors first calling the meeting.. In addition, our Board of Directors adopted a short-term stockholder rights agreement in February 2017 with an expiration date of February 7, 2018 and an ownership trigger threshold of 20%. This stockholder rights agreement was approved by the stockholders in May 2017, but expired pursuant to its terms in February 2018. However, our Board of Directors could determine in the future that adoption of a similar stockholder rights agreement is in the best interest of our stockholders and any such stockholder rights agreement, if adopted, could render more difficult, or discourage, a merger, tender offer, or assumption of control of the Company that is not approved by our Board of Directors.. 19. Table of Contents"
