[1] "ITEM 1A.Risk Factors. Future changes in interest rates could reduce our profits.. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates.  Net interest income is the difference between:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and. 15. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings.. As a result of our focus on one- to four-family residential real estate loans and the low demand for adjustable-rate loans in our market area, the interest rates we earn on our loans are generally fixed for long periods of time.  Additionally, many of our securities investments are of long maturities with fixed interest rates.  Like many savings institutions, our focus on deposit accounts as a source of funds, which have no stated maturity date or shorter contractual maturities than loans, results in our liabilities having a shorter duration than our assets.  For example, as of December 31, 2017, 95.5% of our loans had maturities of 15 years or longer, while 53.1% of our certificates of deposits had maturities of one year or less.  This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time.  In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets, such as loans and investments, likely will not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities, such as deposits.  Furthermore, our loan origination and sales activity may be adversely affected by a rising interest rate environment that typically results in decreased loan demand.  In a period of declining interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets likely will decrease more rapidly than the interest paid on our liabilities, as borrowers prepay mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, thereby requiring us to reinvest these cash flows at lower interest rates.  See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Management of Market Risk.\". In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities and the fair value of mortgage servicing assets.  A reduction in interest rates results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their loans in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans.  Potential reduction, or impairment, to the fair value of mortgage servicing assets generally occurs as market interest rates decline.  Alternatively, an increase in market interest rates generally causes an increase in the fair value of mortgage servicing assets.. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our interest-earning securities portfolio.  Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates.  At December 31, 2017, the fair value of our investment in held-to-maturity securities totaled $406.7 million.  Net unrealized gains on these securities totaled $1.9 million at December 31, 2017.. At December 31, 2017, our \"rate shock\" analysis indicated that our economic value of equity (the difference between the market value of our assets and the market value of our liabilities with adjustments made for off-balance sheet items) would decrease by $26.5 million if there was an instantaneous 200 basis point increase in market interest rates.  See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Management of Market Risk.\". Our lending activities provide lower interest rates than financial institutions that originate more commercial loans.. Our principal lending activity consists of originating one- to four-family residential real estate mortgage loans.  As of December 31, 2017, these loans totaled $1.445 billion or 96.7% of total loans.  We originate our loans with a focus on limiting credit risk and not to generate the highest return or create the greatest difference between the yield on our interest-earning assets and our cost of funds (interest rate spread).. Residential real estate mortgage loans generally have lower interest rates than commercial business loans, commercial real estate loans and consumer loans.  As a result, we may generate lower interest rate spreads and rates of return when compared to our competitors who originate more consumer or commercial loans than we do.  We intend to continue our focus on residential real estate lending.. 16. Table of Contents. A worsening of economic conditions in our market area could reduce demand for our products and services and/or result in increases in our level of non-performing loans, which could adversely affect our operations, financial condition and earnings.. Local economic conditions have a significant impact on the ability of our borrowers to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing loans.  A deterioration in economic conditions could have the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdemand for our products and services may decline;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tloan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcollateral for loans, especially real estate, may decline in value, thereby reducing customers' future borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us.. Moreover, a significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, an outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment or other factors beyond our control could further impact these local economic conditions and could further negatively affect the financial results of our banking operations.  In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering our operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on our borrowers, especially our business borrowers, and the values of underlying collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance.. We may be adversely affected by recent changes in U.S. tax laws.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was enacted in December 2017, is likely to have both positive and negative effects on our financial performance. For example, the new legislation will result in a reduction in our federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% beginning in 2018, which will have a favorable impact on our earnings and capital generation abilities. However, the new legislation also enacted limitations on certain deductions that will have an impact on the banking industry, borrowers and the market for single-family residential real estate. These limitations include (i) a lower limit on the deductibility of mortgage interest on single-family residential mortgage and home equity loans, (ii) a limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense and (iii) a limitation on the deductibility of property taxes and state and local income taxes. In addition, as a result of the lower corporate tax rate, we were required under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) to record a tax expense due to remeasurement in the fourth quarter of 2017 with respect to our deferred income tax assets amounting to $2.1 million.. The recent changes in the tax laws may have an adverse effect on the market for, and valuation of, residential properties, and on the demand for such loans in the future, and could make it harder for borrowers to make their loan payments. In addition, these recent changes may also have a disproportionate effect on taxpayers in states with high residential home prices and high state and local taxes, like Hawaii. If home ownership becomes less attractive, demand for mortgage loans could decrease. The value of the properties securing loans in our loan portfolio may be adversely impacted as a result of the changing economics of home ownership, which could require an increase in our provision for loan losses, which would reduce our profitability and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability.. In recent years it has been the policy of the Federal Reserve Board to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which has been one factor contributing to the increase in our interest rate spread as interest rates decreased.  However, our ability to lower our interest expense continues to be limited since our cost of funds at December 31, 2017 is relatively low while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease as our higher yielding loans and securities are paid off.. 17. Table of Contents. Accordingly, our net interest income may be adversely affected and may even decrease, which may have an adverse effect on our profitability.. Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, our earnings and growth are affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board. An important function of the Federal Reserve Board is to regulate the money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve Board to implement these objectives are open market purchases and sales of U.S. government securities, adjustments of the federal funds and discount rates and changes in banks' reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits.. The monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board have had a significant effect on the operating results of financial institutions in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The effects of such policies upon our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be predicted.. We are subject to the Community Reinvestment Act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to material penalties.. The Community Reinvestment Act (CRA), the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. A successful regulatory challenge to an institution's performance under the CRA or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity and restrictions on activities which could result in the denial of certain corporate applications such as branches.  Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Nonresidential real estate loans and commercial business loans increase our exposure to credit risks.. At December 31, 2017, our portfolio of commercial real estate, construction and other nonresidential real estate loans totaled $21.8 million, or 1.5% of total loans.  In addition, at December 31, 2017, our portfolio of commercial business loans totaled $3.9 million, or 0.3% of total loans.  These loans generally expose us to a greater risk of nonpayment and loss than residential real estate loans because repayment of such loans often depends on the successful operations and income stream of the borrowers.  Additionally, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans.. We target our business lending and marketing strategy towards small- to medium-sized businesses.  These small- to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities.  If general economic conditions adversely affect these businesses, our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted.  In addition, some of our commercial business loans are collateralized by a security interest in furniture, fixtures and equipment and the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment because the collateral may have limited use or value.. Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and profitability.. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense.  In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally.  Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide.  In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, which could affect our ability to grow and remain profitable on a long-term basis.  Our profitability depends upon. 18. Table of Contents. our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas.  If we must raise interest rates paid on deposits or lower interest rates charged on our loans, our net interest margin and profitability could be adversely affected.  For additional information see \"Item 1. Business - Competition.\". If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease.. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans.  In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions.  If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance.  While our allowance for loan losses was 0.2% of total loans at December 31, 2017, material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted a new accounting standard that will be effective for Territorial Bancorp Inc. and Territorial Savings Bank for our first fiscal year after December 15, 2019.  This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss (CECL), will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans, and recognize the expected credit losses as allowances for loan losses.  This will change the current method of providing allowances for loan losses that are probable, which may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, and to greatly increase the types of data we would need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses.  Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or expenses incurred to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs.  Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our employee stock ownership plan may continue to increase our costs, which would reduce our income.. Our employee stock ownership plan purchased 8% of the total shares of common stock sold in our stock offering using funds borrowed from Territorial Bancorp Inc. We record annual employee stock ownership plan expense in an amount equal to the fair value of the shares of common stock released to employees over the term of the loan.  If the value of the shares of common stock continues to appreciate up to the time shares are released, compensation expense relating to the employee stock ownership plan will increase and our net income will decline.. Concentration of loans in our primary market area may increase risk.. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the State of Hawaii, as nearly all of our loans are to customers in the state.  Accordingly, the economic conditions in the State of Hawaii have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans as well as our ability to originate new loans.  As such, a decline in real estate valuations in this market would lower the value of the collateral securing those loans.  In addition, significant weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control could negatively affect our financial results.. Our local economy relies heavily on the tourism industry.  Downturns in this industry could affect our operations and results.. Tourism is the largest sector of Hawaii's economy.  The Hawaii Tourism Authority reported visitor arrivals and visitor spending grew by 5.0% and 6.2%, respectively, in 2017 compared to 2016.  A downturn in the tourism industry, and the related loss of jobs or operating income for businesses, could have a significant impact on our ability to originate loans, and the ability of borrowers to repay loans, either of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. 19. Table of Contents. We are subject to extensive regulatory oversight.. We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision.  Regulators have intensified their focus on bank lending criteria and controls, and on the USA PATRIOT Act's anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements.  There also is increased scrutiny of our compliance practices generally and particularly with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.  Our failure to comply with these and other regulatory requirements could lead to, among other remedies, administrative enforcement actions and legal proceedings.  In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations are likely to have a significant effect on the financial services industry, which are likely to increase operating costs and reduce profitability.  Regulatory or legislative changes could make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive for us, and could cause us to change or limit some of our products and services, or the way we operate our business.. The Federal Reserve Board may require us to commit capital resources to support Territorial Savings Bank.. Federal law requires that a holding company act as a source of financial and managerial strength to its subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support such subsidiary bank. Under the \"source of strength\" doctrine, the Federal Reserve Board may require a holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to a subsidiary bank. A capital injection may be required at times when the holding company may not have the resources to provide it and therefore may be required to borrow the funds or raise capital. Any loans by a holding company to its subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a holding company's bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the institution's general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note obligations. Thus, any borrowing that must be done by Territorial Bancorp, Inc. to make a required capital injection becomes more difficult and expensive and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Severe weather, natural disasters and other external events could significantly affect our operations and results.. Because all of our office locations are in the State of Hawaii, severe weather or natural disasters, such as tsunamis, volcanic eruptions, hurricanes and earthquakes and other adverse external events, could have a significant effect on our ability to conduct business.  Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses.  Natural disasters, like the tsunami that occurred in Japan in 2011, could have an impact on the visitor industry in Hawaii.  Accordingly, the occurrence of any such severe weather or natural disaster event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to certain capital requirements, which may adversely impact our return on equity, require us to raise additional capital, or constrain us from paying dividends or repurchasing shares.. A final capital rule that became effective for financial institutions on January 1, 2015, included minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, and refined the definition of what constitutes \"capital\" for purposes of calculating these ratios.  The minimum capital requirements are: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 6%; (iii) a total capital ratio of 8%; and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. The final rule also established a \"capital conservation buffer\" of 2.5%, resulting in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The capital conservation buffer requirement began to be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and will increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. A financial institution, such as Territorial Savings Bank, is subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that can be utilized for such actions.. 20. Table of Contents. Territorial Savings Bank and Territorial Bancorp Inc. met all of these requirements, including the full 2.5% capital conservation buffer, as if these requirements had been fully phased in as of December 31, 2017.. The application of these capital requirements could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements.  Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets.  See \"Supervision and Regulation - Federal Banking Regulation - Capital Distributions.\". Government responses to economic conditions may adversely affect our operations, financial condition and earnings.. Ongoing uncertainty and adverse developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the effect of new legislation and regulatory actions in response to these conditions, may adversely affect our operations by restricting our business activities, including our ability to originate or sell loans, modify loan terms, or foreclose on property securing loans.  These measures may increase our costs of doing business and may have a significant adverse effect on our lending activities, financial performance and operating flexibility.  In addition, these risks could affect the performance and value of our loan and investment securities portfolios, which also would negatively affect our financial performance.. If the Federal Reserve Board continues to increase the federal funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery.  In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering our operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on our borrowers, especially our business borrowers, and the values of underlying collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance.. Noncompliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions.. The USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities.  If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury's Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.  These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts.  Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions.  During the last year, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations.  While we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, these policies and procedures may not be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations.. Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and our income.. In recent years, Congress has taken actions that are intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has taken actions to increase insurance coverage on deposit accounts.  In addition, there have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount distressed borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit an institution's ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral.. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, or changes in policy, regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders.  Bank regulatory agencies, such as the Federal Reserve Board, the Hawaii Division of Financial Institutions and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors, and not for the protection or benefit of potential investors.  In addition, new laws, regulations and other regulatory changes may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our. 21. Table of Contents. operations.  New laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability.  Federal and state proposals limiting our rights as a creditor could result in credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor.. The building of market share through de novo branching could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues.. We intend to continue to build market share in the State of Hawaii through de novo branching.  Since 2010, we have opened four de novo branches including the most recent branch opened in 2017.  There are considerable costs involved in opening branches that generally require a period of time to generate the necessary revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence.  Accordingly, any such business expansion can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until certain economies of scale are reached.  Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in the opening of any of our new branches.  Finally, our business expansion may not be successful after establishment.. System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities.. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems.  Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers.  Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us.  Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, these security measures may not be successful.  In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data.  A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We mitigate this risk through guidance promulgated for all financial institutions by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council and the regulations issued under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.  This guidance also requires our core data processor to meet these standards.  We regularly self-audit or review exams from auditors as well as federal banking regulators to assure that these standards are being met, internally as well as by our important data processing vendors. We also implemented firewall and other internal controls to protect our systems from compromise.. Nevertheless, our systems could be compromised and it is possible that significant amounts of time and money may be spent to rectify the harm caused by a breach or hack. While we have general liability insurance and cyber liability insurance, we know there are limitations on coverage as well as dollar amount.  Furthermore, cyber incidents carry a greater risk of injury to our reputation.  Finally, depending on the type of incident, banking regulators can impose restrictions on our business and consumer laws may require reimbursement of customer loss.. Our risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating risk and reducing the potential for significant losses.. Our risk management framework is designed to minimize risk and loss to us. We seek to identify, measure, monitor, report and control our exposure to risk, including strategic, market, liquidity, compliance and operational risks. While we use a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and mitigation techniques, these techniques are inherently limited because they cannot anticipate the existence or future development of currently unanticipated or unknown risks.  Recent economic conditions and heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny of the financial services industry, among other developments, have increased our level of risk. Accordingly, we could suffer losses as a result of our failure to properly anticipate and manage these risks.. 22. Table of Contents. Our business may be adversely affected by an increasing prevalence of fraud, including cyberfraud, and other financial crimes.. Our loans to businesses and individuals and our deposit relationships and related transactions are subject to exposure to the risk of loss due to fraud, including cyberfraud, and other financial crimes.  Nationally, reported incidents of fraud and other financial crimes have increased.  We have also experienced losses due to apparent fraud and other financial crimes.  While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent such losses, losses may still occur.. Legal and regulatory proceedings and related matters could adversely affect us or the financial services industry in general.. We, and other participants in the financial services industry upon whom we rely to operate, have been and may in the future become involved in legal and regulatory proceedings.  Most of the proceedings we consider to be in the normal course of our business or typical for the industry; however, it is inherently difficult to assess the outcome of these matters, and other participants in the financial services industry or we may not prevail in any proceeding or litigation.  There could be substantial cost and management diversion in such litigation and proceedings, and any adverse determination could have a materially adverse effect on our business, brand or image, or our financial condition and results of our operations.. We are a community bank and our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance.. We are a community bank, and our reputation is one of the most valuable components of our business.  A key component of our business strategy is to rely on our reputation for customer service and knowledge of local markets to expand our presence by capturing new business opportunities from existing and prospective customers in our current market and contiguous areas.  As such, we strive to conduct our business in a manner that enhances our reputation. This is done, in part, by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities we serve, delivering superior service to our customers and caring about our customers and associates.  If our reputation is negatively affected, by the actions of our employees, by our inability to conduct our operations in a manner that is appealing to current or prospective customers, or otherwise, our business and operating results may be adversely affected.. The corporate governance provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and the corporate governance provisions under Maryland law, may prevent or impede the holders of our common stock from obtaining representation on our Board of Directors and may impede takeovers of the company that our board might conclude are not in the best interest of Territorial Bancorp Inc. or its stockholders.. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws may prevent or impede holders of our common stock from obtaining representation on our Board of Directors and may make takeovers of Territorial Bancorp Inc. more difficult.  For example, our Board of Directors is divided into three staggered classes.  A classified board makes it more difficult for stockholders to change a majority of the directors because it generally takes at least two annual elections of directors for this to occur.  Our articles of incorporation include a provision that no person will be entitled to vote any shares of our common stock in excess of 10% of our outstanding shares of common stock.  This limitation does not apply to the purchase of shares by a tax-qualified employee stock benefit plan established by us.  In addition, our articles of incorporation and bylaws restrict who may call special meetings of stockholders and how directors may be removed from office.  Additionally, in certain instances, the Maryland General Corporation Law requires a supermajority vote of our stockholders to approve a merger or other business combination with a large stockholder, if the proposed transaction is not approved by a majority of our directors.. Reductions in defense spending by the federal government could have a detrimental impact on Hawaii's economy.. The defense industry is the second largest contributor to Hawaii's economy after the visitor industry, contributing $9.4 billion in the fiscal year 2017 and creating thousands of jobs for residents of the State.  Cuts to defense. 23. Table of Contents. and other general spending could have an adverse impact on Hawaii's economy, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits at maturity and support our future growth.. We must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers.  As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments.  As we continue to grow, we are likely to become more dependent on these sources, which may include FHLB advances, securities sold under agreements to repurchase, proceeds from the sale of loans, federal funds purchased and brokered certificates of deposit.  Adverse operating results or changes in industry conditions could lead to difficulty or an inability to access these additional funding sources.  Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates.  If we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs.  In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected.. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and we could become subject to environmental liabilities with respect to one or more of these properties. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing defaulted loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous conditions or toxic substances are found on these properties, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage, civil fines and criminal penalties regardless of when the hazardous conditions or toxic substances first affected any particular property. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses to address unknown liabilities and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on nonresidential real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on us.. Changes in management's estimates and assumptions may have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and our financial condition or operating results.. In preparing this annual report as well as other periodic reports we are required to file under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including our consolidated financial statements, our management is and will be required under applicable rules and regulations to make estimates and assumptions as of a specified date. These estimates and assumptions are based on management's best estimates and experience as of that date and are subject to substantial risk and uncertainty.  Materially different results may occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known. Areas requiring significant estimates and assumptions by management include our valuation of investment securities, our determination of our income tax provision, and our evaluation of the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses."                                                                  
