[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. The following pages discuss the principal risks we face. Any of these risk factors could have a significant or material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. They could also cause significant fluctuations and volatility in the trading price of our securities. Readers should not consider any descriptions of these factors to be a complete set of all potential risks and uncertainties that could affect us. These factors should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the other reports and materials filed by us with the SEC. Furthermore, many of these risks are interrelated, and the occurrence of certain of them may in turn cause the emergence or exacerbate the effect of others. Such a combination could materially increase the severity of the impact of these risks on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Risks Related to Our Business. We may not realize the expected benefits of the Merger and Sponsorship Transaction.. Following the closing of the Merger and Sponsorship Transaction, the Company may not perform as we expect, or as the market expects, which could have an adverse effect on the price of our Class A common stock. Concurrently with the closing of the Merger and Sponsorship Transaction, Brookfield and the Company entered into the new sponsorship agreements, which include, among other things, for Brookfield to provide strategic and investment management services to the Company, for Brookfield, subject to certain terms and conditions, to provide the Company with a right of first offer on certain operating wind and solar assets that are located in North America and Western Europe and developed by persons sponsored by or under the control of Brookfield and for Brookfield to provide TerraForm Power with a $500 million secured revolving credit facility to fund certain acquisitions or growth capital expenditures.. The Company may not realize expected benefits of Brookfield's management services and the other aspects of the sponsorship arrangements. For example, the Company may fail to realize expected operational or margin improvements, synergies or other cost savings or reductions, may not achieve expected growth in its portfolio through organic growth or third-party acquisitions and may not be able to acquire assets from Brookfield. The Company may also not be able to effectively utilize the $500 million revolving credit facility provided by Brookfield for accretive acquisitions or at all. Our failure to realize these aspects of the Sponsorship Transaction may have an adverse effect on the price of our Class A common stock and on our business, growth and the results of our operations.. The Merger and Sponsorship Transaction and related uncertainty could cause disruptions in our business, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results and the price of our Class A common stock.. We have important counterparties at every level of operations, including offtakers under our PPAs, corporate and project-level lenders and tax equity investors, suppliers and service providers. Uncertainty about the effect of the sponsorship with Brookfield may negatively affect our relationship with our counterparties due to concerns about the Brookfield sponsorship and its impact on our business. These concerns may cause counterparties to be more likely to reduce utilization of our services (or the provision of supplies or services) where the counterparty has flexibility in volume or duration or otherwise seeks to change the terms on which they do business with us. These concerns may also cause our existing or potential new counterparties to be less likely to enter into new agreements or to demand more expensive or onerous terms, credit support, security or other conditions. Damage to our existing or potential future counterparty relationships may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our growth strategy and the price of our Class A common stock.. The production of wind energy depends heavily on suitable wind conditions, and the production of solar depends on irradiance, which is the amount of solar energy received at a particular site. If wind or solar conditions are unfavorable or below our estimates, our electricity production, and therefore our revenue, may be substantially below our expectations.. The electricity produced and revenues generated by a wind power plant depend heavily on wind conditions, which are. 19. variable and difficult to predict. Operating results for wind power plants vary significantly from period to period depending on the wind conditions during the periods in question. The electricity produced and the revenues generated by a solar power plant depends heavily on insolation, which is the amount of solar energy received at a site. While somewhat more predictable than wind conditions, operating results for solar power plants can also vary from period to period depending on the solar conditions during the periods in question. We have based our decisions about which sites to develop in part on the findings of long-term wind, irradiance and other meteorological data and studies conducted in the proposed area, which, as applicable, measure the wind's speed and prevailing direction, the amount of solar irradiance a site is expected to receive and seasonal variations. Actual conditions at these sites, however, may not conform to the measured data in these studies and may be affected by variations in weather patterns, including any potential impact of climate change. Therefore, the electricity generated by our power plants may not meet our anticipated production levels or the rated capacity of the turbines or solar panels located there, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In some quarters the wind resources at our operating wind power plants, while within the range of our long-term estimates, have varied from the averages we expected. If the wind or solar resources at a facility are below the average level we expect, our rate of return for the facility would be below our expectations and we would be adversely affected. Projections of wind resources also rely upon assumptions about turbine placement, interference between turbines and the effects of vegetation, land use and terrain, which involve uncertainty and require us to exercise considerable judgment. Projections of solar resources depend on assumptions about weather patterns (including snow), shading, and other assumptions which involve uncertainty and also require us to exercise considerable judgment. We or our consultants may make mistakes in conducting these wind, irradiance and other meteorological studies. Any of these factors could cause our sites to have less wind or solar potential than we expected and may cause us to pay more for wind and solar power plants in connection with acquisitions than we otherwise would have paid had such mistakes not been made, which could cause the return on our investment in these wind and solar power plants to be lower than expected.. If our wind and solar energy assessments turn out to be wrong, our business could suffer a number of material adverse consequences, including:. • our energy production and sales may be significantly lower than we predict;. • our hedging arrangements may be ineffective or more costly;. • we may not produce sufficient energy to meet our commitments to sell electricity or RECs and, as a result, we may have to buy electricity or RECs on the open market to cover our obligations or pay damages; and. • our wind and solar power plants may not generate sufficient cash flow to make payments of principal and interest as they become due on the notes and our non-recourse debt, and we may have difficulty obtaining financing for future wind power plants.. Our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and share price.. We are required to comply with Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in the course of preparing our financial statements, and our management is required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for such year. Additionally, our independent registered public accounting firm is required pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis. The rules governing the standards that must be met for our management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation.. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the entity's financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The existence of any material weakness would require management to devote significant time and incur significant expense to remediate any such material weaknesses and management may not be able to remediate any such material weaknesses in a timely manner.. As of December 31, 2017, we did not maintain an effective control environment attributable to certain identified material weaknesses. We describe these material weaknesses in Item 9A. Controls and Procedures in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These control deficiencies create a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement to the consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis, and therefore we concluded that the deficiencies represent material weaknesses in the Company's internal control over financial reporting and our internal control over financial reporting. 20. was not effective as of December 31, 2017.. The existence of these or other material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could also result in errors in our financial statements that could require us to restate our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause stockholders to lose confidence in our reported financial information, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business and stock price.. We are involved in costly and time-consuming litigation and other regulatory proceedings which require significant attention from our management, which involve a greater exposure to legal liability and may result in significant damage awards and which may relate to the operations of our renewable energy facilities.. We have been and continue to be involved in legal proceedings, administrative proceedings, claims and other litigation that arise in the ordinary course of business, including proceedings related to the operation of our renewable energy facilities. For example, individuals or groups have in the past and may in the future challenge the issuance of a permit for a renewable energy facility or may make claims related to alleged impacts of the operation of our renewable energy facilities on adjacent properties. In addition, we are named as defendants from time to time in other lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business, some of which may claim significant damages. We have also been subject to claims arising out of our acquisition activities with respect to certain payments in connection with the acquisition of First Wind by SunEdison.. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. Unfavorable outcomes or developments relating to these proceedings, or new proceedings involving similar allegations or otherwise, such as monetary damages or equitable remedies, could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial position, results of operations or cash flows or limit our ability to engage in certain of our business activities. Settlement of claims could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings are often expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations and require significant attention from our management. We are currently and/or may be subject in the future to claims, lawsuits or arbitration proceedings related to matters in tort or under contracts, employment matters, securities class action lawsuits, shareholder derivative actions, breaches of fiduciary duty, conflicts of interest, tax authority examinations or other lawsuits, regulatory actions or government inquiries and investigations.. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We have been the target of such securities litigation in the past (see Note 19. Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements, included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) and we may become the target of additional securities litigation in the future, which could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The settlement of certain existing litigation will trigger a requirement to issue additional Class A common stock to Brookfield.. We have agreed, in the Merger Agreement, to issue additional shares of Class A common stock to Brookfield for no additional consideration in respect of the final resolution of certain specified litigation (see Note 19. Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements for a description of such litigation). The number of additional shares of Class A common stock to be issued to Brookfield is subject to a pre-determined formula as set forth in the Merger Agreement as described in greater detail in the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement filed on Schedule 14A with the SEC on September 6, 2017 and will compensate Brookfield for the total amount of losses we incur with respect to such specified litigation. The number of shares of Class A common stock to be issued to Brookfield could be significant, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our remaining Class A common stockholders.. A significant portion of our assets consists of long-lived assets, the value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired.. As of December 31, 2017, the net carrying value of long-lived assets represented $5,879.7 million, or 92%, of our total assets and consisted of renewable energy facilities and intangible assets. Renewable energy facilities and intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate carrying values may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized if the total future estimated undiscounted cash flows expected from an asset are less than its carrying value.. As a result of classifying substantially all of our portfolio of residential rooftop solar assets located in the United States as held for sale during the fourth quarter of 2016 and determining that the carrying value exceeded the fair value less. 21. costs to sell, we recorded an impairment charge of $15.7 million within impairment of renewable energy facilities in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2016. We also recorded a $3.3 million charge within impairment of renewable energy facilities for the year ended December 31, 2016 due to the decision to abandon certain residential construction in progress assets that were not completed by SunEdison as a result of the SunEdison Bankruptcy. In 2017, we recorded an additional $1.4 million charge within impairment of renewable energy facilities related to our remaining 0.3 MW of residential assets that were not classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2016 as we determined certain impairment indicators were present.. During 2016, our long-lived assets also included goodwill but based on our annual goodwill impairment testing conducted as of December 1, 2016, and a review of any potential indicators of impairment, we concluded that the carrying value of $55.9 million was impaired and it was fully written off in 2016. There have been no impairments of intangible assets to date. If intangible assets or additional renewable energy facilities are impaired based on a future impairment test, we could be required to record further non-cash impairment charges to our operating income. Such non-cash impairment charges, if significant, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations in the period recognized.. Counterparties to our PPAs may not fulfill their obligations or may seek to terminate the PPA early, which could result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. All but a minor portion of the electricity generated by our current portfolio of renewable energy facilities is sold under long-term PPAs, including power purchase agreements with public utilities or commercial, industrial or government end-users or hedge agreements with investment banks and creditworthy counterparties. Certain of the PPAs associated with renewable energy facilities in our portfolio allow the offtake purchaser to terminate the PPA in the event certain operating thresholds or performance measures are not achieved within specified time periods or, in certain instances, by payment of an early termination fee. If a PPA was terminated or if, for any reason, any purchaser of power under these contracts is unable or unwilling to fulfill their related contractual obligations or refuses to accept delivery of power delivered thereunder, and if we are unable to enter a new PPA on acceptable terms in a timely fashion or at all, we would be required to sell the power from the associated renewable energy facility into the wholesale power markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, seeking to enforce the obligations of our counterparties under our PPAs could be time consuming or costly and could involve little certainty of success.. Certain of our PPAs allow the offtake purchaser to buy out a portion of the renewable energy facility upon the occurrence of certain events, in which case we will need to find suitable replacement renewable energy facilities to invest in.. Certain of the PPAs for renewable energy facilities in our portfolio or that we may acquire in the future allow the offtake purchaser to purchase all or a portion of the applicable renewable energy facility from us. If the offtake purchaser exercises its right to purchase all or a portion of the renewable energy facility, we would need to reinvest the proceeds from the sale in one or more renewable energy facilities with similar economic attributes in order to maintain our cash available for distribution. If we were unable to locate and acquire suitable replacement renewable energy facilities in a timely fashion it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash available for distribution.. Most of our PPAs do not include inflation-based price increases.. In general, our PPAs do not contain inflation-based price increase provisions. To the extent that the countries in which we operate experience high rates of inflation, which increases our operating costs in those countries, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to offset the effects of inflation, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. A material drop in the retail price of utility-generated electricity or electricity from other sources could limit our ability to attract new customers and adversely affect our growth.. Decreases in the retail prices of electricity supplied by utilities or other clean energy sources would harm our ability to offer competitive pricing and could harm our ability to sign PPAs with customers. The price of electricity from utilities could decrease for a number of reasons, including:. • the construction of a significant number of new power generation plants, including nuclear, coal, natural gas or renewable energy facilities;. • the construction of additional electric transmission and distribution lines;. 22. • a reduction in the price of natural gas, including as a result of new drilling techniques or a relaxation of associated regulatory standards;. • energy conservation technologies and public initiatives to reduce electricity consumption; and. • the development of new clean energy technologies that provide less expensive energy.. A shift in the timing of peak rates for utility-supplied electricity to a time of day when solar energy generation is less efficient could make solar energy less competitive and reduce demand. If the retail price of energy available from utilities were to decrease, we would be at a competitive disadvantage in negotiating new PPAs and therefore we may be unable to attract new customers and our growth would be limited, and the value of our renewable energy facilities may be impaired or their useful life may be shortened.. We may not be able to replace expiring PPAs with contracts on similar terms. If we are unable to replace an expired distributed generation PPA with an acceptable new contract, we may be required to remove the renewable energy facility from the site or, alternatively, we may sell the assets to the site host.. We may not be able to replace an expiring PPA with a contract on equivalent terms and conditions, including at prices that permit operation of the related facility on a profitable basis. If we are unable to replace an expiring PPA with an acceptable new revenue contract, the affected site may temporarily or permanently cease operations or we may be required to sell the power produced by the facility at wholesale prices which are exposed to market fluctuations and risks. In the case of a distributed generation solar facility that ceases operations, the PPA terms generally require that we remove the assets, including fixing or reimbursing the site owner for any damages caused by the assets or the removal of such assets. The cost of removing a significant number of distributed generation solar facilities could be material. Alternatively, we may agree to sell the assets to the site owner, but the terms and conditions, including price that we would receive in any sale and the sale price may not be sufficient to replace the revenue previously generated by the solar generation facility.. Our ability to generate revenue from certain utility-scale solar and wind power plants depends on having interconnection arrangements and services and the risk of curtailment of our renewable energy facilities may result in a reduced return to us on our investments and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The operation of our utility scale renewable energy facilities depends on having interconnection arrangements with transmission providers and depends on a reliable electricity grid. If the interconnection or transmission agreement of a renewable energy facility we own or acquire is terminated for any reason, we may not be able to replace it with an interconnection or transmission arrangement on terms as favorable as the existing arrangement, or at all, or we may experience significant delays or costs in securing a replacement. Moreover, if a transmission network to which one or more of our existing power plants or a power plant we acquire is connected experiences \"down time,\" the affected renewable energy facility may lose revenue and be exposed to non-performance penalties and claims from its customers. Curtailment as a result of transmission system down time can arise from the need to prevent damage to the transmission system and for system emergencies, force majeure, safety, reliability, maintenance or other operational reasons. Under our power purchase arrangements, our offtakers are not generally required to compensate us for energy and ancillary services we could have delivered during these periods of curtailment had our facilities not been curtailed. Further, the owners of the transmission network will not usually compensate electricity generators for lost income due to curtailment. These factors could materially affect our ability to forecast operations and negatively affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. In addition, we cannot predict whether transmission facilities will be expanded in specific markets to accommodate or increase competitive access to those markets. Expansion of the transmission system by transmission providers is costly, time consuming and complex. To the extent the transmission system is not adequate in an area, our operating facilities' generation of electricity may be physically or economically curtailed without compensation due to transmission capacity limitations, reducing our revenues and impairing our ability to capitalize fully on a particular facility's generating potential. Such curtailments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, economic congestion on the transmission grid (for instance, a positive price difference between the location where power is put on the grid by a clean power generation asset and the location where power is taken off the grid by the facility's customer) in certain of the bulk power markets in which we operate may occur and we may be deemed responsible for those congestion costs. If we were liable for such congestion costs, our financial results could be adversely affected.. We face competition from traditional and renewable energy companies.. The solar and wind energy industries, and the broader clean energy industry, are highly competitive and continually. 23. evolving, as market participants strive to distinguish themselves within their markets and compete with large incumbent utilities and new market entrants. We believe that our primary competitors are the traditional incumbent utilities that supply energy to our potential customers under highly regulated rate and tariff structures. We compete with these traditional utilities primarily based on price, predictability of price and the ease with which customers can switch to electricity generated by our renewable energy facilities. If we cannot offer compelling value to our customers based on these factors, then our business will not grow. Traditional utilities generally have substantially greater financial, technical, operational and other resources than we do, and as a result may be able to devote more resources to the research, development, promotion and sale of their products or respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in market conditions than we can. Traditional utilities could also offer other value-added products or services that could help them to compete with us even if the cost of electricity they offer is higher than ours. In addition, the source of a majority of traditional utilities' electricity is non-renewable, which may allow them to sell electricity more cheaply than electricity generated by our solar generation facilities, wind power plants, and other types of clean power generation assets we may acquire.. We also face risks that traditional utilities could change their volumetric-based (i.e., cents per kWh) rate and tariff structures to make distributed solar generation less economically attractive to their retail customers. Currently, net metering programs are utilized in the majority of states to support the growth of distributed generation solar facilities by requiring traditional utilities to reimburse certain of their retail customers for the excess power they generate at the level of the utilities' retail rates rather than the rates at which those utilities buy power at wholesale. In Arizona, the state has allowed its largest traditional utility, Arizona Public Service, to assess a surcharge on customers with solar generation facilities for their use of the utility's grid, based on the size of the customer's solar generation facility. This surcharge will reduce the economic returns for the excess electricity that the solar generation facilities produce. These types of changes or other types of changes that could reduce or eliminate the economic benefits of net metering could be implemented in other states, which could significantly change the economic benefits of solar energy as perceived by traditional utilities' retail customers.. We also face competition in the energy efficiency evaluation and upgrades market and we expect to face competition in additional markets as we introduce new energy-related products and services. As the solar and wind industries grow and evolve, we will also face new competitors who are not currently in the market. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or new competitors could limit our growth and could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects.. There are a limited number of purchasers of utility-scale quantities of electricity, which exposes us and our utility-scale facilities to additional risk.. Since the transmission and distribution of electricity is either monopolized or highly concentrated in most jurisdictions, there are a limited number of possible purchasers for utility-scale quantities of electricity in a given geographic location, including transmission grid operators, state and investor-owned power companies, public utility districts and cooperatives. As a result, there is a concentrated pool of potential buyers for electricity generated by our renewable energy facilities, which may restrict our ability to negotiate favorable terms under new PPAs and could impact our ability to find new customers for the electricity generated by our renewable energy facilities should this become necessary. Furthermore, if the financial condition of these utilities and/or power purchasers deteriorated or the RPS programs, climate change programs or other regulations to which they are currently subject and that compel them to source renewable energy supplies change, demand for electricity produced by our utility-scale facilities could be negatively impacted.. Our hedging activities may not adequately manage our exposure to commodity and financial risk, which could result in significant losses or require us to use cash collateral to meet margin requirements, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, which could impair our ability to execute favorable financial hedges in the future.. Certain of our wind power plants are party to financial swaps or other hedging arrangements. We may also acquire additional assets with similar hedging arrangements in the future. Under the terms of the existing financial swaps, certain wind power plants are not obligated to physically deliver or purchase electricity. Instead, they receive payments for specified quantities of electricity based on a fixed-price and are obligated to pay the counterparty the market price for the same quantities of electricity. These financial swaps cover quantities of electricity that we estimated are highly likely to be produced. As a result, gains or losses under the financial swaps are designed to be offset by decreases or increases in a facility's revenues from spot sales of electricity in liquid markets. However, the actual amount of electricity a facility generates from operations may be materially different from our estimates for a variety of reasons, including variable wind conditions and wind turbine availability. If a wind power plant does not generate the volume of electricity covered by the associated swap contract, we could incur significant losses if electricity prices in the market rise substantially above the fixed-price provided for in the swap. If a wind power plant generates more electricity than is contracted in the swap, the excess production will not be hedged and. 24. the related revenues will be exposed to market price fluctuations.. Moreover, in some power markets, at times we have experienced negative power prices with respect to merchant energy sales. In these situations, we must pay grid operators to take our power. Because our tax investors receive production tax credits from the production of energy from our wind plants, it may be economical for the plant to continue to produce power at negative prices, which results in our wind facility paying for the power it produces. In addition, certain of these financial or hedging arrangements are financially settled with reference to energy prices (or locational marginal prices) at a certain hub or node on the transmission system in the relevant energy market. At the same time, revenues generated by physical sales of energy from the applicable facility may be determined by the energy price (or locational marginal price) at a different node on the transmission system. This is an industry practice used to address the lack of liquidity at individual facility locations. There is a risk, however, that prices at these two nodes differ materially, and as a result of this so called \"basis risk,\" we may be required to settle our financial hedges at prices that are higher than the prices at which we are able to sell physical power from the applicable facility, thus reducing the effectiveness of the swap hedges.. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange risks because certain of our renewable energy facilities are located in foreign countries.. We generate a portion of our revenues and incur a portion of our expenses in currencies other than U.S. dollars. The portion of our revenues generated in currencies other than U.S. dollars is expected to increase substantially if we complete the Tender Offer for the shares of Saeta Yield and may otherwise increase in the future. Changes in economic or political conditions in any of the countries in which we operate now or in the future could result in exchange rate movement, new currency or exchange controls or other restrictions being imposed on our operations or expropriation. As our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, if we generate revenue or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into U.S. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those revenues or earnings. To the extent that we are unable to match revenues received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations in any such currency could have a negative impact on our profitability. Our debt service requirements are primarily in U.S. dollars even though a percentage of our cash flow is generated in other foreign currencies and therefore significant changes in the value of such foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and our ability to meet interest and principal payments on debts denominated in U.S. dollars. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur currency transaction risks whenever we or one of our facilities enter into a purchase or sales transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity.. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively manage our currency transaction and/or translation risks. It is possible that volatility in currency exchange rates will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We expect to experience economic losses and gains and negative and positive impacts on earnings as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, particularly as a result of changes in the value of the Canadian dollar, the British pound and other currencies.. Additionally, although a portion of our revenues and expenses are denominated in foreign currency, any dividends we pay will be denominated in U.S. dollars. The amount of U.S. dollar denominated dividends paid to our holders of our Class A common stock will therefore be exposed to a certain level of currency exchange rate risk. Although we have entered into certain hedging arrangements to help mitigate some of this exchange rate risk, these arrangements may not be sufficient to eliminate the risk. Changes in the foreign exchange rates could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and may adversely affect the amount of cash dividends paid by us to holders of our Class A common stock.. A portion of our revenues is attributable to the sale of renewable energy credits and solar renewable energy credits, which are renewable energy attributes that are created under the laws of individual states of the United States, and our failure to be able to sell such RECs or SRECs at attractive prices, or at all, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation.. A portion of our revenues is attributable to our sale of RECs and other environmental attributes of our facilities which are created under the laws of the state of the United States where the facility is located. We sometimes seek to sell forward a portion of our RECs or other environmental attributes under contracts having terms in excess of one year to fix the revenues from those attributes and hedge against future declines in prices of RECs or other environmental attributes. If our renewable energy facilities do not generate the amount of electricity required to earn the RECs or other environmental attributes sold under such forward contracts or if for any reason the electricity we generate does not produce RECs or other environmental attributes for a particular state, we may be required to make up the shortfall of RECs or other environmental attributes under such forward contracts through purchases on the open market or make payments of liquidated damages. We have from time to time provided guarantees of Terra LLC as credit support for these obligations. Additionally, forward contracts for REC sales. 25. often contain adequate assurances clauses that allow our counterparties to require us to provide credit support in the form of parent guarantees, letters of credit or cash collateral.. We are currently limited in our ability to hedge sufficient volumes of our anticipated RECs or other environmental attributes, leaving us exposed to the risk of falling prices for RECs or other environmental attributes. RECs are created through state law requirements for utilities to purchase a portion of their energy from renewable energy sources and changes in state laws or regulation relating to RECs may adversely affect the availability of RECs or other environmental attributes and the future prices for RECs or other environmental attributes, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Operation of renewable energy facilities involves significant risks and hazards that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not have adequate insurance to cover these risks and hazards.. The ongoing operation of our facilities involves risks that include the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes or performance below expected levels of output or efficiency due to wear and tear, latent defect, design error or operator error or force majeure events, among other things. Operation of our facilities also involves risks that we will be unable to transport our product to our customers in an efficient manner due to a lack of transmission capacity. Unplanned outages of generating units, including extensions of scheduled outages, occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of our business. Unplanned outages typically increase our operation and maintenance expenses and may reduce our revenues as a result of generating and selling less power or require us to incur significant costs as a result of obtaining replacement power from third parties in the open market to satisfy our forward power sales obligations.. Our inability to efficiently operate our renewable energy facilities, manage capital expenditures and costs and generate earnings and cash flow from our asset-based businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. While we maintain insurance, obtain warranties from vendors and obligate contractors to meet certain performance levels, the proceeds of such insurance, warranties or performance guarantees may not cover our lost revenues, increased expenses or liquidated damages payments should we experience equipment breakdown or non-performance by contractors or vendors.. Power generation involves hazardous activities, including delivering electricity to transmission and distribution systems. In addition to natural risks such as earthquake, flood, lightning, hurricane and wind, other hazards, such as fire, structural collapse and machinery failure are inherent risks in our operations. These and other hazards can cause significant personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment and contamination of, or damage to, the environment and suspension of operations. The occurrence of any one of these events may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for substantial damages, including for environmental cleanup costs, personal injury and property damage and fines and/or penalties. We maintain an amount of insurance protection that we consider adequate but we cannot provide any assurance that our insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. Furthermore, our insurance coverage is subject to deductibles, caps, exclusions and other limitations. A loss for which we are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Further, due to rising insurance costs and changes in the insurance markets, we cannot provide any assurance that our insurance coverage will continue to be available at all or at rates or on terms similar to those presently available. Any losses not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our business is subject to substantial governmental regulation and may be adversely affected by changes in laws or regulations, as well as liability under, or any future inability to comply with, existing or future regulations or other legal requirements.. Our business is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws in the U.S. and regulations in the foreign countries in which we operate. Compliance with the requirements under these various regulatory regimes may cause us to incur significant costs, and failure to comply with such requirements could result in the shutdown of the non-complying facility or, the imposition of liens, fines and/or civil or criminal liability.. With the exception of certain of our utility scale plants, our renewable energy facilities located in the United States in our portfolio are QFs as defined under PURPA. Depending upon the power production capacity of the facility in question, our QFs and their immediate project company owners may be entitled to various exemptions from ratemaking and certain other regulatory provisions of the FPA, from the books and records access provisions of PUHCA, and from state organizational and financial regulation of electric utilities.. 26. Certain of our utility scale plants and their owners are exempt wholesale generators, as defined under PURPA (each, an EWG) which exempts each EWG and us (for purposes of our ownership of each such company) from the federal books and access provisions of PUHCA. Certain of the EWGs are also QFs. EWGs and their owners are subject to regulation for most purposes as \"public utilities\" under the FPA, including regulation of their rates and their issuances of securities. Each of our EWGs has obtained \"market based rate authorization\" and associated blanket authorizations and waivers from FERC under the FPA, which allows it to sell electricity, capacity and ancillary services at wholesale at negotiated, market based rates, instead of cost-of-service rates, as well as waivers of, and blanket authorizations under, certain FERC regulations that are commonly granted to market based rate sellers, including blanket authorizations to issue securities.. The failure of our QFs to maintain QF status may result in their becoming subject to significant additional regulatory requirements. In addition, the failure of the EWGs, or our QFs to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may result in the imposition of penalties.. In particular, the EWGs, and any project companies that own or operate our QFs that obtain market based rate authority from FERC under the FPA are or will be subject to certain market behavior and anti-manipulation rules as established and enforced by FERC, and if they are determined to have violated those rules, will be subject to potential disgorgement of profits associated with the violation, penalties, and suspension or revocation of their market-based rate authority. If such entities were to lose their market-based rate authority, they would be required to obtain FERC's acceptance of a cost-of-service rate schedule for wholesale sales of electric energy, capacity and ancillary services and could become subject to significant accounting, record-keeping, and reporting requirements that are imposed on FERC regulated public utilities with cost-based rate schedules.. Substantially all of our assets are also subject to the rules and regulations applicable to power generators generally, in particular the Reliability Standards of the North American Electric Reliability Corporation or similar standards in Canada, the United Kingdom and Chile. If we fail to comply with these mandatory Reliability Standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, increased compliance obligations and disconnection from the grid.. The regulatory environment for electricity generation in the United States has undergone significant changes in the last several years due to state and federal policies affecting the wholesale and retail power markets and the creation of incentives for the addition of large amounts of new renewable energy generation and demand response resources. These changes are ongoing and we cannot predict the ultimate effect that the changing regulatory environment will have on our business. In addition, in some of these markets, interested parties have proposed material market design changes, as well as made proposals to re-regulate the markets or require divestiture of power generation assets by asset owners or operators to reduce their market share. If competitive restructuring of the power markets is reversed, discontinued or delayed, our business prospects and financial results could be negatively impacted.. Laws, governmental regulations and policies supporting renewable energy, and specifically solar and wind energy (including tax incentives), could change at any time, including as a result of new political leadership, and such changes may materially adversely affect our business and our growth strategy.. Renewable energy generation assets currently benefit from, or are affected by, various federal, state and local governmental incentives and regulatory policies. In the United States, these policies include federal ITCs, PTCs, and trade import tariff policies, as well as state RPS and integrated resource plan (\"IRP\") programs, state and local sales and property taxes, siting policies, grid access policies, rate design, net energy metering, and modified accelerated cost-recovery system of depreciation. The growth of our wind and solar energy business will also be dependent on the federal and state tax and regulatory regimes generally and as they relate in particular to our investments in our wind and solar facilities. For example, future growth in the renewable energy industry in the U.S. will be impacted by the availability of ITC and PTCs and accelerated depreciation and other changes to the federal income tax codes, including reductions in rates or changes that affect the ability of tax equity providers to effectively obtain the benefit of available tax credits or deductions or forecast their future tax liabilities, which may materially impair the market for tax equity financing for wind and solar power plants. Any effort to overturn federal and state laws, regulations or policies that are supportive of wind and solar power plants or that remove costs or other limitations on other types of generation that compete with wind and solar power plants could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Many U.S. states have adopted RPS programs mandating that a specified percentage of electricity sales come from eligible sources of renewable energy. If the RPS requirements are reduced or eliminated, it could lead to fewer future power contracts or lead to lower prices for the sale of power in future power contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our future growth prospects. Such material adverse effects may result from decreased revenues, reduced economic returns on. 27. certain project company investments, increased financing costs and/or difficulty obtaining financing.. Renewable energy sources in Canada benefit from federal and provincial incentives, such as RPS programs, accelerated cost recovery deductions allowed for tax purposes, the availability of offtake agreements through RPS and the Ontario FIT program, and other commercially oriented incentives. Renewable energy sources in Chile benefit from an RPS program. Any adverse change to, or the elimination of, these incentives could have a material adverse effect on our business and our future growth prospects.. We are also subject to laws and regulations that are applicable to business entities generally, including local, state and federal tax laws. As discussed in Government Incentives and Legislation within Item 1. Business, on December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted the Tax Act, which contains several provisions that positively and negatively impact our business and operations. If any of the laws or governmental regulations or policies that support renewable energy change, or if we are subject to changes to other existing laws or regulations or new laws or regulation that impact our tax position, increase our compliance costs, are burdensome or otherwise negatively impact our business, such new or changed laws or regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Maintenance, expansion and refurbishment of renewable energy facilities involve significant risks that could result in unplanned power outages or reduced output.. Our facilities may require periodic upgrading and improvement. Any unexpected operational or mechanical failure, including failure associated with breakdowns and forced outages, and any decreased operational or management performance, could reduce our facilities' generating capacity below expected levels, reducing our revenues and jeopardizing our ability to pay dividends to holders of our Class A common stock at forecasted levels or at all. Incomplete performance by us or third parties under O&M agreements may increase the risks of operational or mechanical failure of our facilities. Degradation of the performance of our renewable energy facilities provided for in the related PPAs may also reduce our revenues. Unanticipated capital expenditures associated with maintaining, upgrading or repairing our facilities may also reduce profitability.. We may also choose to refurbish or upgrade our facilities based on our assessment that such activity will provide adequate financial returns and key assumptions underpinning a decision to make such an investment may prove incorrect, including assumptions regarding construction costs, timing, available financing and future power prices. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Moreover, spare parts for wind turbines and solar facilities and key pieces of equipment may be hard to acquire or unavailable to us. Sources of some significant spare parts and other equipment are located outside of North America and the other jurisdictions in which we operate. If we were to experience a shortage of or inability to acquire critical spare parts we could incur significant delays in returning facilities to full operation, which could negatively impact our business financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Developers of renewable energy facilities depend on a limited number of suppliers of solar panels, inverters, module turbines, towers and other system components and turbines and other equipment associated with wind power plants. Any shortage, delay or component price change from these suppliers could result in construction or installation delays, which could affect the number of renewable energy facilities we are able to acquire in the future.. There have been periods of industry-wide shortage of key components, including solar panels and wind turbines, in times of rapid industry growth. The manufacturing infrastructure for some of these components has a long lead time, requires significant capital investment and relies on the continued availability of key commodity materials, potentially resulting in an inability to meet demand for these components. In addition, the United States government has imposed tariffs on imported solar cells and modules. The tariff begins at 30% in 2018 and declines to 25%, 20% and 15% in 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively. The first 2.5 gigawatts of imported solar cells are exempted from these tariffs. If project developers purchase solar panels containing cells manufactured in China, our purchase price for renewable energy facilities may reflect the tariff penalties mentioned above. A shortage of key commodity materials could also lead to a reduction in the number of renewable energy facilities that we may have the opportunity to acquire in the future, or delay or increase the costs of acquisitions.. We may incur unexpected expenses if the suppliers of components in our renewable energy facilities default in their warranty obligations.. The solar panels, inverters, modules and other system components utilized in our solar generation facilities are generally covered by manufacturers' warranties, which typically range from 5 to 20 years. When purchasing wind turbines, the purchaser will enter into warranty agreements with the manufacturer which typically expire within two to five years after the. 28. turbine delivery date. In the event any such components fail to operate as required, we may be able to make a claim against the applicable warranty to cover all or a portion of the expense associated with the faulty component. However, these suppliers could cease operations and no longer honor the warranties, which would leave us to cover the expense associated with the faulty component. For example, a portion of our solar power plants utilize modules made by SunEdison and certain of its affiliates that were debtors in the SunEdison Bankruptcy. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected if we cannot make claims under warranties covering our renewable energy facilities.. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and related compliance expenditures and liabilities.. Our assets are subject to numerous and significant federal, state, local and foreign laws, and other requirements governing or relating to the environment. Our facilities could experience incidents, malfunctions and other unplanned events, such as spills of hazardous materials that may result in personal injury, penalties and property damage. In addition, certain environmental laws may result in liability, regardless of fault, concerning contamination at a range of properties, including properties currently or formerly owned, leased or operated by us and properties where we disposed of, or arranged for disposal of, waste and other hazardous materials. As such, the operation of our facilities carries an inherent risk of environmental liabilities, and may result in our involvement from time to time in administrative and judicial proceedings relating to such matters. While we have implemented environmental management programs designed to continually improve environmental, health and safety performance, we cannot assure you that such liabilities including significant required capital expenditures, as well as the costs for complying with environmental laws and regulations, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Harming of protected species can result in curtailment of wind power plant operations, monetary fines and negative publicity.. The operation of wind power plants can adversely affect endangered, threatened or otherwise protected animal species. Wind power plants, in particular, involve a risk that protected species will be harmed, as the turbine blades travel at a high rate of speed and may strike flying animals (such as birds or bats) that happen to travel into the path of spinning blades.. Our wind power plants are known to strike and kill flying animals, and occasionally strike and kill endangered or protected species, including protected golden or bald eagles. As a result, we expect to observe all industry guidelines and governmentally recommended best practices to avoid harm to protected species, such as avoiding structures with perches, avoiding guy wires that may kill birds or bats in flight, or avoiding lighting that may attract protected species at night. In addition, we will attempt to reduce the attractiveness of a site to predatory birds by site maintenance (e.g., mowing, removal of animal and bird carcasses, etc.).. Where possible, we will obtain permits for incidental taking of protected species. We hold such permits for some of our wind power plants, particularly in Hawaii, where several species are endangered and protected by law. We are monitoring the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service (\"USF&WS\") rulemaking and policy about obtaining incidental take permits for bald and golden eagles at locations with low to moderate risk of such events and will seek permits as appropriate. We are also in the process of amending the incidental take permits for certain wind power plants in Hawaii, where observed endangered species mortality has exceeded prior estimates and may exceed permit limits on such takings.. Excessive taking of protected species could result in requirements to implement mitigation strategies, including curtailment of operations, and/or substantial monetary fines and negative publicity. Our wind power plants in Hawaii, several of which hold incidental take permits to authorize the incidental taking of small numbers of protected species, are subject to curtailment (i.e., reduction in operations) if excessive taking of protected species is detected through monitoring. At some of the facilities in Hawaii, curtailment has been implemented, but not at levels that materially reduce electricity generation or revenues. Such curtailments (to protect bats) have reduced nighttime operation and limited operation to times when wind speeds are high enough to prevent bats from flying into a wind power plant's blades. Based on continuing concerns about species other than bats, however, additional curtailments are possible at those locations. We cannot guarantee that such curtailments, any monetary fines that are levied or negative publicity that we receive as a result of incidental taking of protected species will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Risks that are beyond our control, including but not limited to acts of terrorism or related acts of war, natural disasters, hostile cyber intrusions, theft or other catastrophic events, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our renewable energy facilities, or those that we otherwise acquire in the future, may be targets of terrorist activities that could cause environmental repercussions and/or result in full or partial disruption of the facilities' ability to generate. 29. electricity. Hostile cyber intrusions, including those targeting information systems as well as electronic control systems used at the facilities and for the related distribution systems, could severely disrupt business operations and result in loss of service to customers, as well as create significant expense to repair security breaches or system damage.. Furthermore, certain of our renewable energy facilities are located in active earthquake zones. The occurrence of a natural disaster, such as an earthquake, hurricane, lightning, flood or localized extended outages of critical utilities or transportation systems, or any critical resource shortages, affecting us could cause a significant interruption in our business, damage or destroy our facilities or those of our suppliers or the manufacturing equipment or inventory of our suppliers.. Additionally, certain of our renewable energy facilities and equipment are at risk for theft and damage. For example, we are at risk for copper wire theft, especially at our solar generation facilities, due to an increased demand for copper in the United States and internationally. Theft of copper wire or solar panels can cause significant disruption to our operations for a period of months and can lead to operating losses at those locations. Damage to wind turbine equipment may also occur, either through natural events such as lightning strikes that damage blades or in-ground electrical systems used to collect electricity from turbines, or through vandalism, such as gunshots into towers or other generating equipment. Such damage can cause disruption of operations for unspecified periods which may lead to operating losses at those locations.. Any such terrorist acts, environmental repercussions or disruptions, natural disasters or theft incidents could result in a significant decrease in revenues or significant reconstruction, remediation or replacement costs, beyond what could be recovered through insurance policies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Any cyber-attack or other failure of the Company's communications and technology infrastructure and systems could have an adverse impact on the Company.. The Company relies on the secure storage, processing and transmission of electronic data and other information and technology systems, including software and hardware, for the efficient operation of its renewable energy facilities. If the Company, its communications systems or computer hardware or software are impacted by a cyber-attack or cyber-intrusion, particularly or as part of a broader attack or intrusion by third parties, including computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, the Company's operations or capabilities could be interrupted or diminished and important information could be lost, deleted or stolen, which could have a negative impact on the Company's revenues and results of operations or which could cause the Company to incur unanticipated liabilities or costs and expenses to replace or enhance affected systems, including costs related to cyber security for the Company's renewable energy facilities.. Our use and enjoyment of real property rights for our renewable energy facilities may be adversely affected by the rights of lienholders and leaseholders that are superior to those of the grantors of those real property rights to us.. Renewable energy facilities generally are and are likely to be located on land occupied by the facility pursuant to long-term easements and leases. The ownership interests in the land subject to these easements and leases may be subject to mortgages securing loans or other liens (such as tax liens) and other easement and lease rights of third parties (such as leases of oil or mineral rights) that were created prior to the facility's easements and leases. As a result, the facility's rights under these easements or leases may be subject, and subordinate, to the rights of those third parties. We perform title searches and obtain title insurance to protect ourselves against these risks. Such measures may, however, be inadequate to protect us against all risk of loss of our rights to use the land on which our renewable energy facilities are located, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. International operations subject us to political and economic uncertainties.. Our portfolio consists of renewable energy facilities located in the United States (including Puerto Rico), Canada, the United Kingdom and Chile. If we consummate the Tender Offer for the shares of Saeta Yield, we will also operate in Spain, Portugal and Uruguay. In addition, we could decide to expand our presence in our existing international markets or further our expansion into new international markets. As a result, our activities are and will be subject to significant political and economic uncertainties that may adversely affect our operating and financial performance. These uncertainties include, but are not limited to:. • the risk of a change in renewable power pricing policies, possibly with retroactive effect;. • political and economic instability;. • measures restricting the ability of our facilities to access the grid to deliver electricity at certain times or at all;. 30. • the macroeconomic climate and levels of energy consumption in the countries where we have operations;. • the comparative cost of other sources of energy;. • changes in taxation policies and/or the regulatory environment in the countries in which we have operations, including reductions to renewable power incentive programs;. • the imposition of currency controls and foreign exchange rate fluctuations;. • high rates of inflation;. • protectionist and other adverse public policies, including local content requirements, import/export tariffs, increased regulations or capital investment requirements;. • changes to land use regulations and permitting requirements;. • risk of nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises and land, including creeping regulation that reduces the value of our facilities or governmental incentives associated with renewable energy;. • difficulty in timely identifying, attracting and retaining qualified technical and other personnel;. • difficulty competing against competitors who may have greater financial resources and/or a more effective or established localized business presence;. • difficulties with, and extra-normal costs of, recruiting and retaining local individuals skilled in international business operations;. • difficulty in developing any necessary partnerships with local businesses on commercially acceptable terms; and. • being subject to the jurisdiction of courts other than those of the United States, which courts may be less favorable to us.. These uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our international operations require us to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations of the United States government and various non-U.S. jurisdictions.. Doing business in multiple countries requires us and our subsidiaries to comply with the laws and regulations of the United States government and various non-U.S. jurisdictions. Our failure to comply with these rules and regulations may expose us to liabilities. These laws and regulations may apply to us, our subsidiaries, individual directors, officers, employees and agents, and may restrict our operations, trade practices, investment decisions and partnering activities. In particular, our non-U.S. operations are subject to United States and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (\"FCPA\"). The FCPA prohibits United States companies and their officers, directors, employees and agents acting on their behalf from corruptly offering, promising, authorizing or providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of influencing official decisions or obtaining or retaining business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. The FCPA also requires companies to make and keep books, records and accounts that accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets and to maintain a system of adequate internal accounting controls. As part of our business, we deal with state-owned business enterprises, the employees and representatives of which may be considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA. As a result, business dealings between our employees and any such foreign official could expose the Company to the risk of violating anti-corruption laws even if such business practices may be customary or are not otherwise prohibited between the Company and a private third party. Violations of these legal requirements are punishable by criminal fines and imprisonment, civil penalties, disgorgement of profits, injunctions, debarment from government contracts as well as other remedial measures. We have established policies and procedures designed to assist us and our personnel in complying with applicable United States and non-U.S. laws and regulations; however, we cannot assure you that these policies and procedures will completely eliminate the risk of a violation of these legal requirements, and any such violation (inadvertent or otherwise) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In the future, we may acquire certain assets in which we have limited control over management decisions and our interests in such assets may be subject to transfer or other related restrictions.. We have acquired, and may seek to acquire, assets in the future in which we own less than a majority of the related interests in the assets. In these investments, we will seek to exert a degree of influence with respect to the management and operation of assets in which we own less than a majority of the interests by negotiating to obtain positions on management committees or to receive certain limited governance rights, such as rights to veto significant actions. However, we may not. 31. always succeed in such negotiations, and we may be dependent on our co-venturers to operate such assets. Our co-venturers may not have the level of experience, technical expertise, human resources management and other attributes necessary to operate these assets optimally. In addition, conflicts of interest may arise in the future between us and our stockholders, on the one hand, and our co-venturers, on the other hand, where our co-venturers' business interests are inconsistent with our interests and those of our stockholders. Further, disagreements or disputes between us and our co-venturers could result in litigation, which could increase our expenses and potentially limit the time and effort our officers and directors are able to devote to our business.. The approval of co-venturers also may be required for us to receive distributions of funds from assets or to sell, pledge, transfer, assign or otherwise convey our interest in such assets. Alternatively, our co-venturers may have rights of first refusal or rights of first offer in the event of a proposed sale or transfer of our interests in such assets. These restrictions may limit the price or interest level for our interests in such assets, in the event we want to sell such interests.. Negative public or community response to renewable energy facilities could adversely affect our acquisition of new facilities and the operation of our existing facilities.. Negative public or community response to solar, wind and other renewable energy facilities, could adversely affect our ability to acquire and operate our facilities. Our experience is that such opposition subsides over time after renewable energy facilities are completed and are operating, but there are cases where opposition, disputes and even litigation continue into the operating period and could lead to curtailment of a facility or other facility modifications.. The seasonality of our operations may affect our liquidity.. We will need to maintain sufficient financial liquidity to absorb the impact of seasonal variations in energy production or other significant events. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash generated from our operating activities, the cash retained by us for working capital purposes out of the gross proceeds of financing activities as well as our borrowing capacity under our existing credit facilities, subject to any conditions required to draw under such existing credit facilities. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly for various reasons, mostly related to economic incentives and weather patterns.. For instance, the amount of electricity and revenues generated by our solar generation facilities is dependent in part on the amount of sunlight, or irradiation, where the assets are located. Due to shorter daylight hours in winter months which results in less irradiation, the generation produced by these facilities will vary depending on the season. The electricity produced and revenues generated by a wind power plant depend heavily on wind conditions, which are variable and difficult to predict. Operating results for wind power plants vary significantly from period to period depending on the wind conditions during the periods in question. Additionally, to the extent more of our renewable energy facilities are located in the northern or southern hemisphere, overall generation of our entire asset portfolio could be impacted by seasonality. Further, time-of-day pricing factors vary seasonally which contributes to variability of revenues. We expect our portfolio of renewable energy facilities to generate the lowest amount of electricity during the first and fourth quarters. However, we expect aggregate seasonal variability to decrease if geographic diversity of our portfolio between the northern and southern hemisphere increases.. If we fail to adequately manage the fluctuations in the timing of distributions from our renewable energy facilities, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially affected. The seasonality of our energy production may create increased demands on our working capital reserves and borrowing capacity under our existing credit facilities during periods where cash generated from operating activities are lower. In the event that our working capital reserves and borrowing capacity under our existing credit facilities are insufficient to meet our financial requirements, or in the event that the restrictive covenants in our existing credit facilities restrict our access to such facilities, we may require additional equity or debt financing to maintain our solvency. Additional equity or debt financing may not be available when required or available on commercially favorable terms or on terms that are otherwise satisfactory to us, in which event our financial condition may be materially adversely affected.. The Merger and Sponsorship Transaction may result in significant employee departures, including turnover of our executive officers and members of our senior management.. In connection with the expected relocation of the headquarters of the Company to New York, New York, we expect to experience departures of a significant number of employees. In addition, we have experienced changes to our executive officers and senior management, including the departure of our interim Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel upon the closing of the Sponsorship Transaction. The governance agreements entered into between the Company and Brookfield in connection with the Merger and Sponsorship Transaction provide for Brookfield to appoint our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel, and Brookfield will directly set the compensation of these officers.. 32. We have incurred substantial indebtedness and may in the future incur additional substantial indebtedness, which may limit our ability to grow our business, reduce our financial flexibility and otherwise may have a material negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We have incurred substantial corporate and project-level indebtedness and may incur additional substantial indebtedness in the future. This substantial indebtedness has certain consequences on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including, but not limited to, the following:. • increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility to, respond to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the competitive environment and business in which we operate;. • limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts to fund the growth of the Company or otherwise meet our obligations;. • requiring us to dedicate a significant portion of our revenues to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness; and. • magnifying the impact of fluctuations in our cash flows on cash available for the payment of dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock.. As a result of these consequences, our substantial indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to operating and financial restrictions through covenants in our corporate loan, debt and security agreements that may limit our operational activities or limit our ability to raise additional indebtedness.. We are subject to operating and financial restrictions through covenants in our loan, debt and security agreements. These restrictions prohibit or limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional debt, provide guarantees for indebtedness, grant liens, dispose of assets, liquidate, dissolve, amalgamate, consolidate or effect corporate or capital reorganizations, and declare distributions. A financial covenant in our corporate revolver limits the overall corporate indebtedness that we may incur to a multiple of our cash available for distribution, which may limit our ability to obtain additional financing, withstand downturns in our business and take advantage of business and development opportunities. If we breach our covenants, our corporate revolving credit facility, term loan facility or senior notes may be terminated or come due and such event may cause our credit rating to deteriorate and subject us to higher interest and financing costs. We may also be required to seek additional debt financing on terms that include more restrictive covenants, require repayment on an accelerated schedule or impose other obligations that limit our ability to grow our business, acquire needed assets or take other actions that we might otherwise consider appropriate or desirable.. Changes in our credit ratings may have an adverse effect on our financial position and ability to raise capital.. The credit rating assigned to the Company or any of our subsidiaries' debt securities may be changed or withdrawn entirely by the relevant rating agency. A lowering or withdrawal of such ratings may have an adverse effect on our financial position and ability to raise capital.. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete strategic acquisitions or affect combinations.. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the \"Investment Company Act\") our business would be subject to applicable restrictions under the Investment Company Act, which could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated. We believe our company is not an investment company under Section 3(b)(1) of the Investment Company Act because we are primarily engaged in a non-investment company business, and we intend to conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed an investment company. However, if we were to be deemed an investment company, restrictions imposed by the Investment Company Act, including limitations on our capital structure and our ability to transact with affiliates, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated.. 33. Risks Related to Our Tender Offer for the Common Shares of Saeta Yield. The Tender Offer is subject to limited conditions, which may not be satisfied on a timely basis or at all and we may be required to accept conditions, obligations, undertakings or remedies imposed by the European Commission which may limit our ability to realize the expected benefits of the Tender Offer.. As discussed in Item 1. Business above, on February 7, 2018, we announced our plan to launch the Tender Offer for the outstanding shares of Saeta Yield. Under the irrevocable undertaking agreements, TERP Spanish HoldCo agreed to offer 12.20 Euros per share for the outstanding shares of Saeta Yield subject only to obtaining merger control clearance from the European Commission (to the extent such clearance is legally required) and Cobra and GIP irrevocably accepting the Tender Offer in respect of their shares representing no less than 48.222% of Saeta Yield's voting share capital. If these conditions are not satisfied on a timely basis or at all, we would not be able to complete the Tender Offer in accordance with our business plans or at all, which could have an adverse impact on our business and the market value of our Class A common stock. Moreover, pursuant to the irrevocable undertaking agreements, TERP Spanish HoldCo has agreed to accept any conditions, obligations, undertakings or remedies that may be imposed by the European Commission or other antitrust authority other than any conditions, obligations, undertaking or remedy that requires an action by any person or entity other than the Company and Saeta Yield and its subsidiaries. Any such condition, obligation, undertaking or remedy may adversely impact the Company or may limit the Company's ability to realize any expected benefits of the Tender Offer.. We may not be able to execute on our funding plan for the Tender Offer on attractive terms or at all.. Under the irrevocable undertaking agreements, we are required to make the Tender Offer to all shareholders of Saeta Yield subject to certain limited exceptions. The Tender Offer is not subject to a financing condition. The aggregate purchase price of the shares subject to the irrevocable undertaking agreements is approximately $600 million, and, if 100% of the remaining shares of Saeta Yield are tendered in connection with the Tender Offer, the aggregate purchase price of the shares (including the shares subject to the irrevocable undertaking agreements) is approximately $1.2 billion. Assuming all of the common shares of Saeta Yield are tendered, we plan to fund the purchase price of the tendered shares using a combination of an equity issuance of our common stock and existing corporate liquidity, including borrowings under the Sponsor Line Agreement and the New Revolver (as defined and discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources within Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). We expect to repay these borrowings using a combination of sources, including new non-recourse financings of our existing unencumbered wind and solar assets and certain cash released from the Saeta Yield assets.. If we are not able to issue common stock, or access our available liquidity as we expect, or are otherwise unable to execute on our funding plan as we expect, we would continue to be obligated to complete the Tender Offer subject to the two conditions described above. We may decide to alter our funding plan to issue more or less equity and use more or less of our existing corporate liquidity. A failure to successfully execute on our funding plan for the Tender Offer could have a material negative impact on the market price of our common stock and our results of operations.. In connection with the Tender Offer, we entered into the Letter of Credit Facilities pursuant to which two banks posted the Bank Guarantee to secure the obligations of TERP Spanish HoldCo to complete the Tender Offer. If we do not have the funding necessary to complete the Tender Offer, the Bank Guarantee held by the CNMV may be drawn and we would have an obligation to reimburse the banks. In addition, if any amount is drawn under the Bank Guarantee, or if an event of default occurs under the Letter of Credit Facilities, we may be required to cash collateralize the entire amount of the Bank Guarantee that has not been drawn. Under the terms of the Letter of Credit Facilities, we are required to maintain minimum liquidity requirements of $500.0 million under the Sponsor Line Agreement and $400.0 million under the New Revolver. These minimum liquidity requirements may limit our ability to pursue or fund other acquisitions or growth capital expenditures.. We may not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition of Saeta Yield.. Our underwriting of the Tender Offer included certain assumptions, including, but not limited to, assumptions related to our ability to integrate Saeta Yield into our business operations, the performance of Saeta Yield's wind and solar assets, the effect of regulation in Spain, Portugal and Uruguay, the realization of costs savings in connection with taking Saeta Yield private, and our plan to finance the Saeta Yield transaction, including the costs and effects of that financing plan on our capital structure. Even though we believe the Tender Offer will be accretive to cash available for distribution to our shareholders on a per share basis, the Saeta Yield acquisition could result in less accretion than we expect or could result in dilution to cash available for distribution to our shareholders as a result of incorrect assumptions in our evaluation of the Saeta Yield transaction, unforeseen consequences or external events beyond our control, which could have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock and our business and results of operations.. 34. The wind and solar assets of Saeta Yield in Spain are subject to significant government regulation that has the effect of regulating the return of renewable energy facilities in the country, and any reduction in the regulated return to rates lower than we expect could have a material negative impact on the results of our operations.. The wind and solar assets of Saeta Yield are located primarily in Spain with additional assets located in Portugal and Uruguay. The wind and solar assets located in Spain are subject to regulated rates of return that are subject to revision every six years, with the next revision expected to occur in 2020. This regulation allows the Spanish government to revise the rate of return for renewable energy facilities to set a reasonable rate of return. Although our underwriting assumptions have incorporated a downward revision to the regulated rate of return that renewable energy facilities in Spain are permitted to earn, if the regulated return is revised to a level lower than we expect, then the revenues that we earn from the assets of Saeta Yield would be lower than we expect, which could have a material negative impact on the results of our operations of those assets.. If less than 90% of the outstanding shares of Saeta Yield are tendered in connection with the Tender Offer, we may decide to launch a delisting offer in order to take Saeta Yield private, which would result in a fair price review by Spanish regulators and could result in a higher tender offer price.. Under Spanish law, if 90% of the shares are tendered and accepted, we will be able to invoke procedures to purchase the remaining un-tendered shares of Saeta Yield at the offer price, which would result in us acquiring 100% of the shares of Saeta Yield and would result in a delisting of Saeta Yield. If less than 90% of the Saeta Yield shares are tendered pursuant to our voluntary Tender Offer, we may launch a delisting offer under Spanish law. This delisting offer would be subject to a fair price review by the CNMV, which could result in an increase in the offer price to the remaining shareholders. If less than 90% of the shares of Saeta Yield are tendered, Spanish law would subject governance of Saeta Yield to certain minority protections, including proportionate board representation for minority shareholders and certain protections regarding related party transactions.. Risks Related to our Growth Strategy. The growth of our business depends on locating and acquiring interests in attractive renewable energy facilities at favorable prices and with favorable financing terms. Additionally, even if we consummate such acquisitions and financings on terms that we believe are favorable, such acquisitions may in fact result in a decrease in cash available for distribution per Class A common share.. The following factors, among others, could affect the availability of attractive renewable energy facilities to grow our business and dividend per Class A common share:. • competing bids for a renewable energy facility, including from companies that may have substantially greater capital and other resources than we do;. • fewer third party acquisition opportunities than we expect, which could result from, among other things, available renewable energy facilities having less desirable economic returns or higher risk profiles than we believe suitable for our business plan and investment strategy;. • risk relating to our ability to successfully acquire projects from the ROFO portfolio pursuant to the Merger and Sponsorship Transaction with Brookfield; and. • our access to the capital markets for equity and debt (including project-level debt) at a cost and on terms that would be accretive to our shareholders.. Even if we consummate acquisitions that we believe will be accretive to our dividends per share, those acquisitions may in fact result in a decrease in dividends per share as a result of incorrect assumptions in our evaluation of such acquisitions, unforeseen consequences or external events beyond our control.. Our acquisition strategy exposes us to substantial risk.. Our acquisition of renewable energy facilities or of companies that own and operate renewable energy facilities, such as Saeta Yield, is subject to substantial risk, including the failure to identify material problems during due diligence (for which we may not be indemnified post-closing), the risk of over-paying for assets (or not making acquisitions on an accretive basis), the ability to obtain or retain customers and, if the renewable energy facilities are in new markets, the risks of entering markets where we have limited experience. While we perform due diligence on prospective acquisitions, we may not be able to discover. 35. all potential operational deficiencies in such renewable energy facilities. In addition, our expectations for the operating performance of newly constructed renewable energy facilities as well as those under construction are based on assumptions and estimates made without the benefit of operating history. However, the ability of these renewable energy facilities to meet our performance expectations is subject to the risks inherent in newly constructed renewable energy facilities and the construction of such facilities, including, but not limited to, degradation of equipment in excess of our expectations, system failures and outages. Future acquisitions may not perform as expected or the returns from such acquisitions may not support the financing utilized to acquire them or maintain them. Furthermore, integration and consolidation of acquisitions requires substantial human, financial and other resources and may divert management's attention from our existing business concerns, disrupt our ongoing business or not be successfully integrated. As a result, the consummation of acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may not be able to effectively identify or consummate any future acquisitions. Additionally, even if we consummate acquisitions, such acquisitions may in fact result in a decrease in cash available for distribution to holders of our Class A common stock. In addition, we may engage in asset dispositions or other transactions that result in a decrease in our cash available for distribution.. Future acquisition opportunities for renewable energy facilities are limited and there is substantial competition for the acquisition of these assets. Moreover, while Brookfield and its affiliates will grant us a right of first offer with respect to the projects in the right of first offer portfolio as a result of the Merger and Sponsorship Transaction, there is no assurance that we will be able to acquire or successfully integrate any such projects. We will compete with other companies for future acquisition opportunities from Brookfield and its affiliates and third parties.. Competition for acquisitions may increase our cost of making acquisitions or cause us to refrain from making acquisitions at all. Some of our competitors are much larger than us with substantially greater resources. These companies may be able to pay more for acquisitions and may be able to identify, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of assets than our resources permit. If we are unable to identify and consummate future acquisitions, it will impede our ability to execute our growth strategy and limit our ability to increase the amount of dividends paid to holders of our Class A common stock. In addition, as we continue to manage our liquidity profile, we may engage in asset dispositions, or incur additional project-level debt, which may result in a decrease in our cash available for distribution.. Even if we consummate acquisitions that we believe will be accretive to such cash per unit, those acquisitions may in fact result in a decrease in such cash per unit as a result of incorrect assumptions in our evaluation of such acquisitions, unforeseen consequences or other external events beyond our control. Furthermore, if we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and stockholders will generally not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources.. Our ability to grow and make acquisitions with cash on hand may be limited by our cash dividend policy.. In the future, we intend to pay dividends to our shareholders each quarter and to rely primarily upon external financing sources, including the issuance of debt and equity securities to fund our acquisitions and growth capital expenditures. We may be precluded from pursuing otherwise attractive acquisitions if the projected short-term cash flow from the acquisition or investment is not adequate to service the capital raised to fund the acquisition or investment. As such, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations.. We may not have access to all operating wind and solar acquisitions that Brookfield identifies.. Our ability to grow through acquisitions depends on Brookfield's ability to identify and present us with acquisition opportunities. Brookfield has designated the Company, subject to certain exceptions, as its primary vehicle to acquire operating wind and solar assets in North America and Western Europe. However, Brookfield has no obligation to source acquisition opportunities specifically for us. There are a number of factors which could materially and adversely impact the extent to which suitable acquisition opportunities are made available to the Company by Brookfield, for example:. • It is an integral part of Brookfield's strategy to pursue the acquisition or development of renewable power assets through consortium arrangements with institutional investors, strategic partners or financial sponsors and to form partnerships to pursue acquisitions on a specialized basis. In certain circumstances, acquisitions of operating wind and solar assets in the Company's primary jurisdictions may be made by other Brookfield vehicles, either with or instead of the Company.. 36. • The same professionals within Brookfield's organization that are involved in acquisitions that are suitable for us are often responsible for the consortiums and partnerships referred to above, as well as having other responsibilities within Brookfield's broader asset management business. Limits on the availability of such individuals will likewise result in a limitation on the availability of acquisition opportunities for us.. • Brookfield will only recommend acquisition opportunities that it believes are suitable for us. The question of whether a particular acquisition is suitable is highly subjective and is dependent on a number of factors including an assessment by Brookfield of our liquidity position, the risk and return profile of the opportunity, and other factors. If Brookfield determines that an opportunity is not suitable for us, it may still pursue such opportunity on its own behalf, or on behalf of a Brookfield-sponsored vehicle.. Our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and growth may be limited.. We may need to arrange additional financing to fund all or a portion of the cost of acquisitions, including our Tender Offer for the shares of Saeta Yield, potential contingent liabilities and other aspects of our operations. Our ability to arrange additional financing or otherwise access the debt or equity capital markets, either at the corporate-level or at a non-recourse project-level subsidiary, may be limited. Any limitations on our ability to obtain financing may have an adverse effect on our business, or growth prospects or our results of operations. Additional financing, including the costs of such financing, will be dependent on numerous factors, including:. • general economic and capital market conditions, including the then-prevailing interest rate environment;. • credit availability from banks and other financial institutions;. • investor confidence in us, our partners, our Sponsor, and the regional wholesale power markets;. • our financial performance and the financial performance of our subsidiaries;. • our level of indebtedness and compliance with covenants in debt agreements;. • our ability to file SEC reports on a timely basis and obtain audited project-level financial statements;. • maintenance of acceptable credit ratings or credit quality, including maintenance of the legal and tax structure of the project-level subsidiary upon which the credit ratings may depend;. • our cash flows; and. • provisions of tax and securities laws that may impact raising capital.. We may not be successful in obtaining additional financing for these or other reasons. Furthermore, we may be unable to refinance or replace non-recourse financing arrangements or other credit facilities on favorable terms or at all upon the expiration or termination thereof. Our failure, or the failure of any of our renewable energy facilities, to obtain additional capital or enter into new or replacement financing arrangements when due may constitute a default under such existing indebtedness and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Risks Inherent in an Investment in TerraForm Power, Inc.. We may not be able to pay cash dividends to holders of our Class A common stock in the future.. The amount of our cash available for distribution principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:. • our ability to realize the expected benefits from Brookfield's sponsorship on our business and results of operations;. • any adverse consequences arising out of our separation from SunEdison and of the SunEdison Bankruptcy;. • the timing of our ability to complete our audited corporate and project-level financial statements;. • risks related to our ability to file our annual and quarterly reports with the SEC on a timely basis and to satisfy the requirements of the NASDAQ Global Select Market;. • our ability to integrate acquired assets and realize the anticipated benefits of these acquired assets;. • counterparties' to our offtake agreements willingness and ability to fulfill their obligations under such agreements;. • price fluctuations, termination provisions and buyout provisions related to our offtake agreements;. 37. • our ability to enter into contracts to sell power on acceptable terms as our offtake agreements expire;. • delays or unexpected costs during the completion of construction of certain renewable energy facilities we intend to acquire;. • our ability to successfully identify, evaluate and consummate acquisitions;. • government regulation, including compliance with regulatory and permit requirements and changes in market rules, rates, tariffs and environmental laws;. • operating and financial restrictions placed on us and our subsidiaries related to agreements governing our indebtedness and other agreements of certain of our subsidiaries and project-level subsidiaries generally;. • our ability to borrow additional funds and access capital markets, as well as our substantial indebtedness and the possibility that we may incur additional indebtedness going forward;. • our ability to compete against traditional and renewable energy companies;. • hazards customary to the power production industry and power generation operations such as unusual weather conditions, catastrophic weather-related or other damage to facilities, unscheduled generation outages, maintenance or repairs, interconnection problems or other developments, environmental incidents, or electric transmission constraints and the possibility that we may not have adequate insurance to cover losses as a result of such hazards;. • our ability to expand into new business segments or new geographies;. • seasonal variations in the amount of electricity our wind and solar plants produce, and fluctuations in wind and solar resource conditions; and. • our ability to operate our businesses efficiently, manage capital expenditures and costs tightly, manage litigation, manage risks related to international operations and generate earnings and cash flow from our asset-based businesses in relation to our debt and other obligations.. As a result of all these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will have sufficient cash generated from operations to pay a specific level of cash dividends to holders of our Class A common stock. Furthermore, holders of our Class A common stock should be aware that the amount of cash available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow, and is not solely a function of profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. We may incur other expenses or liabilities during a period that could significantly reduce or eliminate our cash available for distribution and, in turn, impair our ability to pay dividends to holders of our Class A common stock during the period. We are a holding company and our ability to pay dividends on our Class A common stock is limited by restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us, including restrictions under the terms of the agreements governing project-level financing. Our project-level financing agreements prohibit distributions to us unless certain specific conditions are met, including the satisfaction of financial ratios and the absence of payment or covenant defaults.. Furthermore, we expect to issue additional equity securities in connection with our Tender Offer for the outstanding shares of Saeta Yield, and we may issue additional equity securities in connection with any other acquisitions or growth capital expenditures. The payment of dividends on these additional equity securities may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per share dividend. There are no limitations in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (other than a specified number of authorized shares) on our ability to issue equity securities, including securities ranking senior to our Class A common stock. The incurrence of bank borrowings or other debt by Terra Operating LLC or by our project-level subsidiaries to finance our growth strategy will result in increased interest expense and the imposition of additional or more restrictive covenants which, in turn, may impact the cash distributions we distribute to holders of our Class A common stock.. Finally, dividends to holders of our Class A common stock will be paid at the discretion of our Board.. Certain of our shareholders have accumulated large concentrations of holdings of our Class A shares, which among other things, may impact the liquidity of our Class A shares.. In addition to Brookfield, certain of our shareholders hold large positions in our Class A shares and new or existing shareholders may accumulate large positions in our Class A shares, which may impact the liquidity of shares of our Class A shares. In the event that shareholders hold these large positions in shares of our Class A common stock not owned by Brookfield this concentration of ownership may reduce the liquidity of our Class A common stock and may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control of our company or discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares, which could depress the price per share a bidder might otherwise be willing to pay.. 38. We are a holding company and our only material asset is our interest in Terra LLC, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from Terra LLC and its subsidiaries to pay dividends and taxes and other expenses.. TerraForm Power is a holding company and has no material assets other than its ownership of membership interests in Terra LLC, a holding company that has no material assets other than its interest in Terra Operating LLC, whose sole material assets are interests in holding companies that directly or indirectly own the renewable energy facilities that comprise our portfolio and the renewable energy facilities that we subsequently acquire. TerraForm Power, Terra LLC and Terra Operating LLC have no independent means of generating revenue. We intend to cause Terra Operating LLC's subsidiaries to make distributions to Terra Operating LLC and, in turn, make distributions to Terra LLC, and, Terra LLC, in turn, to make distributions to TerraForm Power in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes payable and dividends, if any, declared by us. To the extent that we need funds to pay a quarterly cash dividend to holders of our Class A common stock or otherwise, and Terra Operating LLC or Terra LLC is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or is otherwise unable to provide such funds (including as a result of Terra Operating LLC's operating subsidiaries being unable to make distributions, such as due to defaults in project-level financing agreements), it could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and limit our ability to pay dividends to holders of our Class A common stock.. Market interest rates may have an effect on the value of our Class A common stock.. One of the factors that influences the price of shares of our Class A common stock will be the effective dividend yield of such shares (i.e., the yield as a percentage of the then market price of our shares) relative to market interest rates. An increase in market interest rates may lead prospective purchasers of shares of our Class A common stock to expect a higher dividend yield. If market interest rates increase and we are unable to increase our dividend in response, including due to an increase in borrowing costs, insufficient cash available for distribution or otherwise, investors may seek alternative investments with higher yield, which would result in selling pressure on, and a decrease in the market price of, our Class A common stock. As a result, the price of our Class A common stock may decrease as market interest rates increase.. The market price and marketability of our shares may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors beyond our control, which may adversely affect our ability to raise capital through future equity financings.. The market price of our shares may fluctuate significantly. Many factors may significantly affect the market price and marketability of our shares and may adversely affect our ability to raise capital through equity financings and otherwise materially adversely impact our business. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:. • price and volume fluctuations in the stock markets generally;. • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of registered investment companies, business development companies or companies in our sectors, which may not be related to the operating performance of these companies;. • changes in our earnings or variations in operating results;. • changes in regulatory policies or tax law;. • operating performance of companies comparable to us; and. • loss of funding sources or the ability to finance or refinance our obligations as they come due.. Investors may experience dilution of their ownership interest due to the future issuance of additional shares of our Class A common stock.. We are in a capital intensive business, and may not have sufficient funds to finance the growth of our business, acquisitions or to support our projected capital expenditures. As a result, we have engaged in, and may require additional funds from further, equity or debt financings, including tax equity financing transactions or sales of preferred shares or convertible debt to complete future acquisitions, expansions and capital expenditures and pay the general and administrative costs of our business. In the future, we may issue our previously authorized and unissued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of purchasers of our Class A common stock offered hereby. Under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we are authorized to issue 1,200,000,000 shares of Class A common stock and 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock with preferences and rights as determined by our Board. The potential issuance of additional shares of Class A common stock or preferred stock or convertible debt may create downward pressure on the trading price of our Class A common stock. We may also issue additional shares of our Class A common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for our Class A common stock in future public offerings or private placements for capital raising purposes or for other business. 39. purposes, potentially at an offering price, conversion price or exercise price that is below the trading price of our Class A common stock.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our Class A common stock adversely, the stock price and trading volume of our Class A common stock could decline.. The trading market for our Class A common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If any of the analysts who may cover us change their recommendation regarding our Class A common stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, the price of our Class A common stock would likely decline. If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the stock price or trading volume of our Class A common stock to decline.. As a result of the Merger and Sponsorship Transaction, we are a \"controlled company,\" controlled by Brookfield, whose interest in our business may be different from ours or other holders of our Class A common stock.. As a result of the Merger and Sponsorship Transaction, Brookfield owns an approximate 51% interest in the Company. At the effective time of the Merger, SunEdison transferred all of the IDRs currently held by SunEdison to Brookfield IDR Holder pursuant to an Incentive Distribution Rights Transfer Agreement, Terra LLC entered into an amended and restated limited liability company agreement (the \"New Terra LLC Agreement\") and Brookfield, the Company and certain of their respective affiliates entered into the Brookfield MSA. Pursuant to the terms of the New Terra LLC Agreement, cash distributions from Terra LLC will be allocated between the holders of the Class A units in Terra LLC and the holders of the IDRs according to a fixed formula. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the Brookfield MSA, Brookfield is entitled to certain fixed and variable management fees for services performed for the Company. As a result of these economic rights, Brookfield may have interests in our business that are different from our interests or the interests of the other holders of our Class A common stock.. In addition, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, if there has been a final resolution of certain specified litigation involving the Company, following the effective time of the Merger, the Company has agreed to issue a number of additional Class A shares to Brookfield for no additional consideration based on the amounts paid or accrued by the Company or any of its affiliates, including Brookfield, with respect to such litigation, calculated in accordance with specified formulas. As a result of this arrangement, Brookfield may have interests in the specified litigation that is different from our interests or the interests of the other holders of our Class A common stock.. Brookfield currently owns interests in, manages and controls, and may in the future own or acquire interests in, manage and/or control, other yield focused publicly listed and private electric power businesses that own clean energy assets, primarily hydroelectric facilities and wind assets, and other public and private businesses that own and invest in other real property and infrastructure assets. Brookfield may have conflicts or potential conflicts, including resulting from the operation by Brookfield of its other businesses, including its other yield focused electric power businesses, including with respect to Brookfield's attention to and management of our business which may be negatively affected by Brookfield's ownership and/or management of other power businesses and other public and private businesses that it owns, controls or manages.. For so long as Brookfield or another entity controls greater than 50% of the total outstanding voting power of our Class A common stock, we will be considered a \"controlled company\" for the purposes of the NASDAQ Global Select Market listing requirements. As a \"controlled company,\" we are permitted to opt out of the NASDAQ Global Select Market listing requirements that require (i) a majority of the members of our Board to be independent, (ii) that we establish a compensation committee and a nominating and governance committee, each comprised entirely of independent directors and (iii) an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and governance and compensation committees. We expect to rely on such exceptions with respect to having a majority of independent directors, establishing a compensation committee or nominating committee and annual performance evaluations of such committees. Brookfield may sell part or all of its stake in the Company, or may have its interest in the Company diluted due to future equity issuances, in each case, which could result in a loss of the \"controlled company\" exemption under the NASDAQ Global Select Market rules. We would then be required to comply with those provisions of the NASDAQ Global Select Market on which we currently or in the future may rely upon exemptions.. As a result of the Merger and Sponsorship Transaction, Brookfield and its affiliates control the Company and have the ability to designate a majority of the members of the Company's Board.. The governance agreements entered into between the Company and Brookfield in connection with the Merger and. 40. Sponsorship Transaction provide Brookfield the ability to designate a majority of our Board to our Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee for nomination for election by our stockholders. Due to such agreements, and Brookfield's approximate 51% interest in the Company, the ability of other holders of our Class A common stock to exercise control over the corporate governance of the Company will be limited. In addition, due to its approximate 51% interest in the Company, Brookfield has a substantial influence on our affairs and its voting power constitutes a large percentage of any quorum of our stockholders voting on any matter requiring the approval of our stockholders. As discussed in the risk factor entitled \"As a result of the Merger and Sponsorship Transaction, we are a \"controlled company,\" controlled by Brookfield and its affiliates, whose interest in our business may be different from ours or other holders of our Class A common stock \" above, Brookfield may hold certain interests that are different from ours or other holders of our Class A common stock and there is no assurance that Brookfield will exercise its control over the Company in a manner that is consistent with our interests or those of the other holders of our Class A common stock.. Brookfield's sponsorship may create significant conflicts of interest that may be resolved in a manner that is not in our best interest or the best interest of our shareholders.. Our sponsorship arrangements with Brookfield involve relationships that may give rise to conflicts of interest between us and our shareholders, on the one hand, and Brookfield, on the other hand. We rely on Brookfield to provide us with, among other things, strategic and investment management services. Although our sponsorship arrangements require Brookfield to provide us with a Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel who are dedicated to us on a full-time basis and have as their primary responsibility the provision of services to us, there is no requirement for Brookfield to act exclusively for us or for Brookfield to provide any specific individuals to us on an ongoing basis.. In certain instances, the interests of Brookfield may differ from our interests, including among other things with respect to the types of acquisitions we pursue, the timing and amount of distributions we make, the reinvestment of returns generated by our operations, the use of leverage when making acquisitions and the appointment of certain outside advisers and service providers. Although we believe the requirement for our Conflicts Committee to review and approve any potential conflict transactions between us and Brookfield should mitigate this risk, there can be no assurance that such review and approvals will result in a resolution that is entirely in our best interests or the best interests of our shareholders.. Brookfield exercises substantial influence over the Company and we are highly dependent on Brookfield.. We depend on the management and administration services provided by Brookfield pursuant to the Brookfield MSA.  Other than our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel, Brookfield personnel and support staff that provide services to us under the Brookfield MSA are not required to have as their primary responsibility the management and administration of us or to act exclusively for us and the Brookfield MSA does not require any specific individuals to be provided to us. Failing to effectively manage our current operations or to implement our strategy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The departure of some or all of Brookfield's professionals could prevent us from achieving our objectives.. We depend on the diligence, skill and business contacts of Brookfield's professionals and the information and opportunities they generate during the normal course of their activities. Our future success will depend on the continued service of these individuals, who are not obligated to remain employed with Brookfield. Brookfield has experienced departures of key professionals in the past and may experience departures again in the future, and we cannot predict the impact that any such departures will have on our ability to achieve our objectives. The departure of a significant number of Brookfield's professionals for any reason, or the failure to appoint qualified or effective successors in the event of such departures, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our objectives.. The role and ownership of Brookfield may change.. Our arrangements with Brookfield do not require Brookfield to maintain any ownership level in the Company. If Brookfield decides to sell part or all of its stake in the Company, or has its interest in the Company diluted due to future equity issuances, we could lose the benefit of the \"controlled company\" exemption for the purposes of the NASDAQ Global Select Market rules as discussed in the risk factor entitled \"As a result of the Merger and Sponsorship Transaction, we are a \"controlled company,\" controlled by Brookfield, whose interest in our business may be different from ours or other holders of our Class A common stock.\" Additionally, if Brookfield's ownership interest falls below 25%, we would have the right to terminate the Brookfield MSA. Any decision by the Company to terminate the Brookfield MSA would trigger a termination of the Relationship Agreement. As a result, we cannot predict with any certainty the effect that any change in Brookfield's ownership would have on the trading price of our shares or our ability to raise capital or make investments in the future.. 41. Risks Related to our Historic Relationship with SunEdison and the SunEdison Bankruptcy. We have transitioned away from our historical dependence on SunEdison for important corporate, project and other services, which involves management challenges and poses risks that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Over the course of 2017, we engaged in efforts to transition away from our historical dependence on SunEdison for corporate, project and other services, including providing for critical systems and information technology infrastructure, by seeking to identify alternative service providers and to establish and manage new relationships, as well as develop our own capabilities and resources in these areas. These efforts include creating a separate stand-alone corporate organization, including, among other things, directly hiring employees and establishing our own accounting, information technology, human resources and other systems and infrastructure, and also include transitioning the project-level O&M and asset management services in-house or to third party service providers. These efforts are largely complete, however, although they were designed to mitigate risks posed by the SunEdison Bankruptcy, they involve a number of new risks and challenges that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. For example, we may be unable to replicate the corporate and project-level services we previously received, either through outsourcing or performing those services ourselves on terms or at similar historic costs or at all. The fees for services provided by Brookfield under the Brookfield MSA, which amount to $2.5 million per quarter for the first four quarters plus a certain variable component, and escalate thereafter, are higher than the fees that we were to pay under the SunEdison management services agreement, which were equal to 2.5% of the Company's cash available for distribution to shareholders in 2016 and 2017 (not to exceed $7.0 million in 2016 or $9.0 million in 2017). In addition, in light of SunEdison's familiarity with our assets, we may not be able to procure the same level of service either through our self-performance of these tasks or through outsourcing. We also continue to depend on a substantial number of outside contractors for accounting services and the costs for these services are substantially greater than those we would incur if we directly hired employees to perform the same services.. Finalizing these changes in connection with such transition may take longer than we expect, cost more than we expect, and divert management's attention from other aspects of our business. We may also incur substantial legal and compliance costs in many of the jurisdictions where we operate. In addition, as we have limited experience in developing our own capabilities and resources, there is no assurance that we would ultimately be successful in our efforts in each of these areas, if at all, which could result in delays or disruptions in our business and operations.. Our historic relationship with SunEdison may adversely affect our relationships with current or potential counterparties.. We have important counterparties at every level of operations, including offtakers under the PPAs, corporate and project-level lenders and investors, suppliers and service providers. The SunEdison Bankruptcy may have damaged our relationships with our counterparties due to concerns about the SunEdison Bankruptcy and its impact on our business. These concerns may cause counterparties to be less willing to grant waivers or forbearances if needed for other matters and more likely to enforce contractual provisions or reduce utilization of our services (or the provision of supplies or services) where the counterparty has flexibility in volume or duration. These concerns may also cause our existing or potential new counterparties to be less likely to enter into new agreements or to demand more expensive or onerous terms, credit support, security or other conditions. Damage to our existing or potential future counterparty relationships may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our growth strategy.. Risks Related to our Delayed Exchange Act Filings. Potential future delays in the filing of our reports with the SEC, as well as further delays in the preparation of audited financial statements at the project level, could have a material adverse effect.. The Company did not file with the SEC on a timely basis its Form 10-Ks for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2016 and its Form 10-Qs for each of the quarters ended March 31, 2016, June 30, 2016, September 30, 2016, March 31, 2017 and June 30, 2017. The Company timely filed its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2017. During the period of these delays, we received notification letters from NASDAQ that granted extensions to regain compliance with NASDAQ's continued listing requirements, subject to the requirement that we file our SEC reports and hold our annual meeting of stockholders by certain deadlines. While we are now current in our filing of periodic reports under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the \"Exchange Act\"), and are in compliance with NASDAQ's continued listing requirements, in the event that any future periodic report is delayed, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain further extensions from. 42. NASDAQ to maintain or regain compliance with NASDAQ's continued listing requirements with respect to any such delayed periodic report. If we fail to obtain any such further extensions from NASDAQ, our Class A common stock would likely be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select Market.. The delay in filing our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and related financial statements has impaired our ability to obtain financing and access the capital markets, and to the extent we fail to make timely filings in the future, our access to financing may be impaired. For example, as a result of the delayed filing of our periodic reports with the SEC, we will not be eligible to register the offer and sale of our securities using a short-form registration statement on Form S-3 until we have timely filed all periodic reports required under the Exchange Act for one year. Additional delays may also negatively impact our ability to obtain project financing and our ability to obtain waivers or forbearances to the extent of any defaults or breaches of project-level financing. An inability to obtaining financing may have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business, acquire assets through acquisitions or optimize our portfolio and capital structure. Additionally, a delay in audited financial statements may reduce the comfort of our Board with approving the payment of dividends.. Financial statements at the project-level have also been delayed over the course of 2016 and 2017. This delay created defaults under most of our non-recourse financing agreements, which have been substantially cured or waived as of the date hereof. To the extent any remaining defaults remain uncured or unwaived, or new defaults arise because of future delays in the completion of audited or unaudited financial statements, our subsidiaries may be restricted in their the ability to make distributions to us, or the related lenders may be entitled to demand repayment or enforce their security interests, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, our ability to pay dividends and our ability to comply with corporate-level debt covenants."
