[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Certain Business Risks. Although it is not possible to identify all of the risks we encounter, we have identified the following significant risk factors that could affect our actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from any such results that might be projected, forecasted, or estimated by us in this report.. Market Risks. The demand and prices for our products and services are affected by several factors, including the supply, demand, and prices for oil and natural gas.. Demand for our services and products is particularly sensitive to the level of exploration, development, and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies. The level of exploration, development, and production activity is directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices, which historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile.. Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty, and a variety of other economic factors that are beyond our control. Crude oil prices have fluctuated significantly since 2014, with West Texas Intermediate (WTI) oil spot prices declining from a high of $108 per barrel in June 2014 to a low of $26.19 per barrel in February 2016, a level which has not been experienced since 2003. Although crude oil prices have increased during the second half of 2017 and early 2018 with a high of $66.14 per barrel in January 2018, the volatility of crude oil prices continues. 11. to be high. For more information, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Business Environment and Results of Operations.\". The prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices depressed levels of exploration, development, and production activity in 2015 and 2016, and if current oil and natural gas prices decrease, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Should current market conditions worsen for an extended period of time, we may be required to record additional asset impairments. Such potential impairment charges could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Even the perception of longer-term lower oil and natural gas prices by oil and natural gas companies can similarly reduce or defer major expenditures given the long-term nature of many large-scale development projects.. Factors affecting the prices of oil and natural gas include:  the level of supply and demand for oil and natural gas; governmental regulations, including the policies of governments regarding the exploration for and production and development of their oil and natural gas reserves; weather conditions and natural disasters; worldwide political, military, and economic conditions; the ability or willingness of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to set and maintain oil production levels; the levels of oil production by non-OPEC countries; oil refining capacity and shifts in end-customer preferences toward fuel efficiency and the use of natural gas; the cost of producing and delivering oil and natural gas; and potential acceleration of the development of alternative fuels.. We encounter, and expect to continue to encounter, intense competition in the sale of our products and services.. We compete with numerous companies in each of our operating segments, many of which have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have. Certain of our competitors have lower standards of quality and older equipment and safety, and offer services at lower prices than we do. Other competitors have newer equipment that is better suited to our customers' needs. Particularly during a period of low oil and natural gas pricing, to the extent competitors offer products or services at lower prices or higher quality, or more cost-effective products or services, our business could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, certain of our customers may elect to perform services internally in lieu of using our services, which could also materially and adversely affect our operations.. The profitability of our operations is dependent on other numerous factors beyond our control.. Our operating results in general, and gross profit in particular, are determined by market conditions and the products and services we sell in any period. Other factors, such as heightened competition, changes in sales and distribution channels, availability of skilled labor and contract services, shortages in raw materials, or inability to obtain supplies at reasonable prices, may also affect the cost of sales and the fluctuation of gross margin in future periods.. Other factors affecting our operating results and activity levels include oil and natural gas industry spending levels for exploration and production, development, and acquisition activities, and impairments of long-lived assets. Several of our customers reduced their capital expenditures during 2016 and 2017 in light of the significant declines in the prices of oil and natural gas, and such reductions have had, and are expected to continue to have, a negative effect on the demand for many of our products and services. This has had, and is expected to continue to have, a negative effect on our revenues and results of operations. A large concentration of our operating activities is located in the onshore and offshore U.S. Gulf Coast region. Our revenues and profitability are particularly dependent upon oil and natural gas industry activity and spending levels in this region. Our operations may also be affected by technological advances, cost of capital, and tax policies. Adverse changes in any of these other factors may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability.. Changes in the economic environment have resulted, and could further result, in further significant impairments of certain of our long-lived assets and goodwill.. During the first quarter of 2016, we recorded consolidated long-lived asset impairments (excluding goodwill impairments) of approximately $10.7 million. During the fourth quarter of 2016, primarily as a result of the impact of significant decreases in oil and natural gas prices on certain of our long-lived assets, we recorded consolidated long-lived asset impairments of approximately $7.2 million. During the fourth quarter of 2017, consolidated long-lived asset impairments of approximately $14.9 million were recorded primarily due to the impairment of a certain. 12. identified intangible asset resulting from decreased expected future operating cash flows from a Production Testing segment customer. During the two year period ending December 31, 2017, we have recorded a total of $33.0 million of long-lived asset impairments. Depressed commodity prices and/or adverse changes in the economic environment could result in a greater decrease in the demand for many of our products and services, which could impact the expected utilization rates of certain of our long-lived assets, including plant facilities, operating locations, barges and vessels, and other operating equipment. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review the carrying value of our long-lived assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable, based on their expected future cash flows. The impact of reduced expected future cash flow could require the write-down of all or a portion of the carrying value for these assets, which would result in additional impairments, resulting in decreased earnings.. During the two year period ending December 31, 2017, we have recorded a total of approximately $106.2 million of goodwill impairments. Following these goodwill impairments, as of December 31, 2017, our consolidated goodwill consists of the $6.6 million of goodwill attributed to our Fluids reporting unit. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review the carrying value of our goodwill for possible impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Changes in circumstances indicating the carrying value of our goodwill may not be recoverable include a decline in our stock price or future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. If economic and market conditions decline, we may be required to record additional charges to earnings during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined, resulting in a negative impact on our results of operations.. We are dependent on third-party suppliers for specific products and equipment necessary to provide certain of our products and services.. We sell a variety of clear brine fluids to the oil and gas industry and non-energy markets, including calcium chloride, calcium bromide, zinc bromide, zinc calcium bromide, sodium bromide, and formate-based brines, some of which we manufacture and some of which are purchased from third parties. Sales of these products contribute significantly to our revenues. In our manufacture of calcium chloride, we use brines, hydrochloric acid, and other raw materials purchased from third parties. In our manufacture of brominated clear brine fluid products, we use elemental bromine, hydrobromic acid, and other raw materials that are purchased from third parties. We rely on Lanxess as a supplier of bromine for our brominated clear brine fluid products as well as tail brine for our El Dorado, Arkansas, calcium chloride plant. Although we have long-term supply agreements with Lanxess, if we were unable to acquire these raw materials at reasonable prices for a prolonged period, our business could be materially and adversely affected.. The fabrication of our compression packages, pump systems, and production testing, well monitoring, and rig cooling equipment requires the purchase of various components, some of which we obtain from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on these suppliers exposes us to the risk of price increases, inferior component quality, or an inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components in a timely manner. The profitability or future growth of our Compression and Production Testing Divisions may be adversely affected due to our dependence on these key suppliers.. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace, and the continued ability to attract new employees.. Our success depends on our ability to attract, train, and retain skilled management and employees at reasonable compensation levels. The delivery of our products and services requires personnel with specialized skills and experience. In addition, our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. The demand for skilled managers and workers in the U.S. Gulf Coast region and other regions in which we operate is high and the supply is limited. A lack of qualified personnel, could adversely affect operating results.. The demand for our products and services in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico could continue to be adversely impacted by increased regulation and continuing regulatory uncertainty.. Operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico have been subject to an increasingly stringent regulatory environment including government regulations focused on offshore operating requirements, spill cleanup, and enforcement. 13. matters. These regulations also implement additional safety and certification requirements applicable to offshore activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Demand for our products and services in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico continues to be affected by these regulations. Future regulatory requirements could delay our customers' activities, reduce our revenues, and increase our operating costs, including the cost to insure offshore operations, resulting in reduced cash flows and profitability.. Operating, Technological, and Strategic Risks. We may not fully realize the benefits from the SwiftWater acquisition.. On February 28, 2018, pursuant to the SwiftWater Purchase Agreement dated February 13, 2018, we purchased all of the equity interests in SwiftWater, which is engaged in the business of providing water management and water solutions to oil and gas operators in the Permian Basin market of Texas.. We performed an inspection of SwiftWater's assets, which we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. However, there could be unknown liabilities or other problems that are not necessarily observable even when the inspection is undertaken. If problems are identified after closing of the SwiftWater acquisition, the purchase agreement provides for limited recourse against the sellers.. We have technological and age-obsolescence risk, both with our products and services as well as with our equipment assets.. New drilling, completion, and production technologies and equipment are constantly evolving. If we are unable to adapt to new advances in technology or replace older assets with new assets, we are at risk of losing customers and market share. In particular, many of our significant equipment assets, are approaching the end of their useful lives, which may adversely affect our ability to serve certain customers. Other equipment, such as a portion of our production testing equipment fleet, may be inadequate to meet the needs of our customers in certain markets. The permanent replacement or upgrade of any of our equipment will require significant capital. Due to the unique nature of many of these assets, finding a suitable or acceptable replacement may be difficult and/or cost prohibitive. The replacement or enhancement of these assets over the next several years may be necessary in order for us to effectively compete in the current marketplace.. We face risks related to our long-term growth strategy.. Our long-term growth strategy includes both internal growth and growth through acquisitions. Internal growth may require significant capital expenditures, some of which may become unrecoverable or fail to generate an acceptable level of cash flows. Internal growth also requires financial resources (including the use of available cash or additional long-term debt), management, and personnel resources. Acquisitions also require significant management resources, both at the time of the transaction and during the process of integrating the newly acquired business into our operations. If we overextend our current financial resources by growing too aggressively, we could face liquidity problems or have difficulty obtaining additional financing. Acquisitions could adversely affect our operations if we are unable to successfully integrate the newly acquired companies into our operations, are unable to hire adequate personnel, or are unable to retain existing personnel. We may not be able to consummate future acquisitions on favorable terms. Acquisition or internal growth assumptions developed to support our decisions could prove to be overly optimistic. Future acquisitions by us could result in issuances of equity securities or the rights associated with the equity securities, which could potentially dilute earnings per share. Future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt or contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. These factors could adversely affect our future operating results and financial position.. Our operations involve significant operating risks and insurance coverage may not be available or cost-effective.. We are subject to operating hazards normally associated with the oilfield service industry, including automobile accidents, fires, explosions, blowouts, formation collapse, mechanical problems, abnormally pressured formations, and environmental accidents. Environmental accidents could include, but are not limited to oil spills, gas leaks or ruptures, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas, or well fluids, or discharges of CBFs or toxic gases or other pollutants. These operating hazards may also include injuries to employees and third parties during the performance of our operations. Our operation of heavy equipment and chemical manufacturing plants involve particularly high levels of risk. In addition, certain of our former employees of the Offshore Services segment. 14. performed services on offshore platforms and vessels and are covered by the provisions of the Jones Act, the Death on the High Seas Act, and general maritime law. These laws make the liability limits established by state workers' compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and, instead, permit our affected employees or their representatives to pursue actions against us for damages for job-related injuries. Whenever possible, we obtained agreements from customers and suppliers that limit our exposure. However, the occurrence of certain operating hazards, including storms, could result in substantial losses to us due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage, and suspension of operations.. We have maintained a policy of insuring our risks of operational hazards that we believe is typical in the industry. We believe that the limits of insurance coverage we have purchased are consistent with the exposures we face and the nature of our products and services. Due to economic conditions in the insurance industry, from time to time, we have increased our self-insured retentions for certain policies in order to minimize the increased costs of coverage, or we have reduced our limits of insurance coverage for, or not procured, named windstorm coverage. In certain areas of our business, we, from time to time, have elected to assume the risk of loss for specific assets. To the extent we suffer losses or claims that are not covered, or are only partially covered by insurance, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Weather-Related Risks. Certain of our operations are seasonal and depend, in part, on weather conditions.. In certain markets, the Fluids Division's onshore water management services can be dependent on adequate water supplies being available to its customers. To the extent severe drought or other weather-related conditions prevent our customers from obtaining needed water, frac water operations may not be possible and our Fluids Division business may be negatively affected.. Severe weather, including named windstorms, can cause damage and disruption to our businesses.. A portion of our operations is susceptible to adverse weather conditions in the Gulf of Mexico, including hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions. Even if we do not experience direct damage from storms, we may experience disruptions in our operations, because we are unable to operate or our customers or suppliers may curtail their activities due to damage to their wells, platforms, pipelines, and facilities. From time to time, our onshore operations are also negatively affected by adverse weather conditions, including sustained rain and flooding.. Financial Risks. Failure to comply with the financial ratios in our long-term debt agreements could result in defaults under those agreements.. As of December 31, 2017, our total long-term debt outstanding (excluding CCLP) of $117.7 million consisted of the carrying amount of our 11% Senior Note, which was issued under our Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement dated as of July 1, 2016, as subsequently amended (the \"Amended and Restated 11% Senior Note Agreement\"). We currently have $0.0 million carrying amount outstanding under our credit agreement, as amended, with a syndicate of banks including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as administrative agent, which provides us with a secured revolving credit facility with a borrowing capacity of up to $200 million (subject to certain conditions) (the \"Credit Agreement\"). In addition, as of December 31, 2017 our consolidated balance sheet includes $512.2 million of long-term debt of CCLP, which consisted of (i) $224.0 million carrying amount under CCLP's credit agreement, dated as of August 4, 2014, as subsequently amended, with a syndicate of banks including Bank of America, N.A. as administrative agent, which provides CCLP with an asset-based revolving credit facility with a borrowing capacity of up to $315 million, subject to borrowing base requirements (the \"CCLP Credit Agreement\"), and (ii) $288.2 million carrying amount of CCLP's 7.25% Senior Notes due 2022 (the \"CCLP 7.25% Senior Notes\"), which were issued pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of August 4, 2014, with U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the \"CCLP Indenture\"). Debt service costs related to outstanding long-term debt represent a significant use of our operating cash flow and could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions.. 15. Each of the Credit Agreement and the Amended and Restated 11% Senior Note Agreement (collectively the \"Long-Term Debt Agreements\") contains covenants and other restrictions and requirements that, among other things, requires us to maintain certain financial ratios as of the end of each fiscal quarter. Deterioration of these ratios could result in a default under these agreements. Although our Long-Term Debt Agreements include cross-default provisions relating to each other and other indebtedness that we may incur that is greater than a defined amount, there are no cross default provisions, cross collateralization provisions, or cross guarantees between our Long-Term Debt Agreements and CCLP's Credit Agreement or the CCLP Indenture. If an event of default occurs under either of our Long-Term Debt Agreements and such event is not remedied in a timely manner, an event of default will occur under both of the Long-Term Debt Agreements. Any event of default, if not timely remedied, could result in a termination of all commitments of the lenders under the Credit Agreement, acceleration of all amounts owed thereunder and with regard to the 11% Senior Note, and foreclosure on the collateral securing both of the Long-Term Debt Agreements.. Following the Fifth Amendment to the Credit Agreement in December 2016, the financial ratios in the Credit Agreement include a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio (which is the ratio of a defined measure of earnings to interest, both measures over the trailing twelve months) of 1.25 to 1 and a maximum leverage ratio (which is the ratio of (i) outstanding debt under the Long-Term Debt Agreements and certain other obligations, including letters of credit outstanding, to (ii) a measure of our consolidated net earnings (\"EBITDA\"), all as defined in the Credit Agreement ) of (i) 5.00 to 1 at the end of the fiscal quarters ending during the period from and including March 31, 2017 through and including December 31, 2017, (ii) 4.75 to 1 at the end of the fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, (iii) 4.50 to 1 at the end of the fiscal quarters ending September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2018, and (iv) 4.00 to 1 at the end of each of the fiscal quarters thereafter. EBITDA is defined in our Credit Agreement as the aggregate of our net income (or loss) and the net income (or loss) of our consolidated restricted subsidiaries (which excludes CCLP), including cash dividends and distributions (not the return of capital) received from persons (including CCLP) other than consolidated restricted subsidiaries and after allowances for taxes for such period determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\"), excluding certain items specifically described therein. This definition of consolidated net earnings excludes an amount of extraordinary and nonrecurring losses up to 25% of a measure of earnings. At December 31, 2016, our fixed charge coverage ratio was 3.05 to 1 and our leverage ratio was 1.66 to 1.. Under the Amended and Restated 11% Senior Note Agreement, the financial ratio requirements include a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio (which is identical to the minimum fixed charge coverage ratio under the Credit Agreement) of 1.25 to 1 and a maximum leverage ratio (which is identical to the maximum leverage ratio under the Credit Agreement) of (i) 5.00 to 1 at the end of the fiscal quarters ending during the period from and including March 31, 2017 through and including December 31, 2017, (ii) 4.75 to 1 at the end of the fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, (iii) 4.50 to 1 at the end of the fiscal quarters ending September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2018, and (iv) 4.00 to 1 at the end of the fiscal quarters ending thereafter.. Our continuing ability to comply with covenants in our Long-Term Debt Agreements depends largely upon our ability to generate adequate earnings and operating cash flows. Due to the decreased demand for certain of our products and services by our customers in response to decreased oil and natural gas prices during 2015 and 2016, we reduced long-term debt from the use of equity offering proceeds took strategic cost reduction efforts, including headcount reductions, deferral of salary increases, salary reductions, benefit reductions, and other efforts to reduce costs and generate cash to mitigate the reduced demand for our products and services. We and CCLP are in compliance with all covenants of our respective long-term debt agreements as of December 31, 2017. Based on our financial forecasts as of March 2, 2018, which are based on certain operating and other business assumptions that we believe to be reasonable, we anticipate that, despite the current industry environment and activity levels, we will have sufficient liquidity, earnings and operating cash flows to maintain compliance with all covenants under our Long-Term Debt Agreements through March 2, 2019. However, there can be no assurance that the assumptions we have made will turn out to be accurate or that we will remain in compliance with these covenants going forward, and we could consequently be in default under our Long-Term Debt Agreements if we were unable to obtain a waiver or amendment from our lenders.. 16. CCLP's failure to comply with the financial ratios in its long-term debt agreements could result in defaults under those agreements and reduced distributions to us.. The CCLP Credit Agreement provides CCLP with an asset-based revolving credit facility with a borrowing capacity of up to $315 million, subject to borrowing base requirements. As of December 31, 2017, CCLP's balance sheet includes $512.2 million of carrying value of long-term debt of CCLP consisting of (i) $224.0 million under the CCLP Credit Agreement and (ii) $288.2 million of CCLP 7.25% Senior Notes issued pursuant to the CCLP Indenture. Debt service costs related to CCLP's outstanding long-term debt represents a significant use of its operating cash flow and could increase its vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. Payment of CCLP's debt service obligations reduces cash available for distribution to its common unitholders, including us. Any breach of, or CCLP's inability to borrow under, the CCLP Credit Agreement, could impact CCLP's ability to fund distributions (if CCLP elected to do so), among other adverse impacts.. The CCLP Credit Agreement, as amended in May 2017, contains financial ratio covenants requiring CCLP to maintain (i) the consolidated total leverage ratio may not exceed (a) 5.95 to 1 as of March 31, 2017; (b) 6.75 to 1 as of June 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017; (c) 6.50 to 1 as of December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2018; (d) 6.25 to 1 as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2018; (e) 6.00 to 1 as of December 31, 2018; and (f) 5.75 to 1 as of March 31, 2019 and thereafter; and (ii) the consolidated secured leverage ratio may not exceed 3.25 to 1 as of the end of any fiscal quarter. The consolidated interest coverage ratio was not amended by the CCLP Fifth Amendment. In addition, the CCLP Fifth Amendment (i) increased the applicable margin by 0.25% in the event the consolidated total leverage ratio exceeds 6.00 to 1, resulting in a range for the applicable margin between 2.00% and 3.50% per annum for LIBOR-based loans and between 1.00% and 2.50% per annum for base-rate loans, depending on the consolidated total leverage ratio, and (ii) modified the appraisal delivery requirement from an annual requirement to a semi-annual requirement. In connection with the CCLP Fifth Amendment, the level of CCLP's cash distributions payable on its common units for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2017 will be limited to the current reduced level. The CCLP Fifth Amendment also included additional revisions that provide flexibility to CCLP for the issuance of preferred securities. At December 31, 2017, the CCLP consolidated total leverage ratio was 6.48 to 1 (compared to 6.50 to 1 maximum allowed under the CCLP Credit Agreement), its consolidated secured leverage ratio was 2.89 to 1 (compared to a 3.25 to 1 maximum ratio allowed under the CCLP Credit Agreement), and its interest coverage ratio was 2.55 to 1 (compared to a 2.25 to 1 minimum ratio required under the CCLP Credit Agreement).. Continued access to the CCLP Credit Agreement is dependent upon CCLP's compliance with the financial ratio covenants as well as the borrowing base and other provisions set forth in the CCLP Credit Agreement. The CCLP Credit Agreement contains additional restrictive provisions (\"cash dominion provisions\") that are imposed if an event of default has occurred and is continuing or \"excess availability\" falls below $30.0 million. The CCLP Credit Agreement provides that CCLP may make distributions to holders of its common units, but only if there is no default under the CCLP Credit Agreement and CCLP maintains excess availability of $30.0 million. CCLP's ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the CCLP Credit Agreement may be affected by events beyond its control, including prevailing economic, financial, and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, CCLP's ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. A failure to comply with the provisions of the CCLP Credit Agreement could result in an event of default. Upon an event of default, unless waived, the lenders under the CCLP Credit Agreement would have all remedies available to secured lenders and could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans, require cash collateralization of letters of credit, cause their loans to become due and payable in full, institute foreclosure proceedings against CCLP or its subsidiaries' assets, and force CCLP and its subsidiaries into bankruptcy or liquidation. If the payment of CCLP's debt is accelerated, its assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and the holders of CCLP common units, including us, could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. An event of default by CCLP under the CCLP Credit Agreement may constitute an event of default under the CCLP 7.25% Senior Notes.. CCLP is in compliance with all covenants of the CCLP Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2017. As a result of the recent decreased demand and pricing for certain of CCLP's products and services by CCLP's customers in response to decreased oil and natural gas prices, CCLP reduced long-term debt from the use of the CCLP Preferred Units offering proceeds and taken strategic cost reduction efforts to reduce costs and generate cash. Based on CCLP's financial forecasts as of February 28, 2018, which are based on certain operating and other business assumptions that CCLP believes to be reasonable, CCLP anticipates that, despite the current industry environment and activity levels, it will have sufficient earnings and operating cash flows to maintain compliance with all covenants under the CCLP Credit Agreement through February 27, 2019. CCLP's plans and forecasts for 2018 include expectations that we will settle certain expenses owed to us by CCLP pursuant to an Omnibus Agreement previously entered into on June 20, 2011 (as amended, the \"Omnibus Agreement\") using CCLP common units in. 17. lieu of cash. There can be no assurance that the assumptions CCLP made will turn out to be accurate or that CCLP will remain in compliance with these covenants going forward, and could consequently be in default under the CCLP Credit Agreement if it were unable to obtain a waiver or amendment from its lenders. Any such default under the CCLP Credit Agreement may constitute an event of default under the CCLP 7.25% Senior Notes. As a result, our cash flows could be further affected.. We have continuing exposure to abandonment and decommissioning obligations associated with oil and gas properties previously owned by Maritech.. From 2001 to 2012, Maritech sold oil and gas producing properties in numerous transactions to different buyers. In connection with those sales, the buyers assumed the decommissioning liabilities associated with the properties sold (the \"Legacy Liabilities\") and generally became the successor operator. Some buyers of these Maritech properties subsequently sold certain of these properties to other buyers, who also assumed the financial responsibilities associated with the properties' operations, and these buyers also typically became the successor operator of the properties. To the extent that a buyer of these properties fails to perform the abandonment and decommissioning work required, a previous owner, including Maritech, may be required to perform the abandonment and decommissioning obligation. As the former parent company of Maritech, we also may be responsible for performing these abandonment and decommissioning obligations. A significant portion of the decommissioning liabilities that were assumed by the buyers of the Maritech properties in these previous sales remains unperformed, and we believe the amounts of these remaining liabilities are significant. We generally monitor the financial condition of the buyers of these properties, and if oil and natural gas pricing levels deteriorate, we expect that one or more of these buyers may be unable to perform the decommissioning work required on properties they acquired, either directly or indirectly from Maritech.. In March 2018, pursuant to a series of transactions, Maritech completed the sales of the remaining active leases held by Maritech to Orinoco and, immediately thereafter, we sold all equity interest in Maritech to Orinoco. Under the Maritech Asset Purchase Agreement, Orinoco assumed all of Maritech's abandonment and decommissioning obligations related to the active leases (the \"Orinoco Lease Liabilities\") and under the Maritech Equity Purchase Agreement Orinoco assumed all other liabilities of Maritech, including the Legacy Liabilities, subject to limited exceptions unrelated to the asset retirement obligations. Pursuant to a Bonding Agreement executed in connection with such purchase agreements, Orinoco provided non-revocable bonds in the aggregate amount of $47 million to secure their performance of Maritech's abandonment and decommissioning obligations related to the Orinoco Lease Liabilities and Maritech's remaining current abandonment and decommissioning obligations (not including the Legacy Liabilities). If in the future we become liable for any abandonment and decommissioning liability associated with any property previously owned by Maritech other than the Legacy Liabilities, the Bonding Agreement provides that, if we call any of these bonds to satisfy such liability and the amount of the bond payment is not sufficient to pay for such liability, Orinoco will pay us for the additional amount required. To the extent Orinoco is unable to cover any such deficiency or we become liable for a significant portion of the Legacy Liabilities, our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected.. We are exposed to significant credit risks.. We face credit risk associated with the significant amounts of accounts receivable we have with our customers in the energy industry. Many of our customers, particularly those associated with our onshore operations, are small- to medium-sized oil and gas operators that may be more susceptible to declines in oil and gas commodity prices or generally increased operating expenses than larger companies. Our ability to collect from our customers is impacted by the current decreased oil and natural gas price environment.. Our operating results and cash flows for certain of our subsidiaries are subject to foreign currency risk.. The operations of certain of our subsidiaries are exposed to fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and certain foreign currencies, particularly the euro, the British pound, the Mexican peso, and the Argentinian peso. Our plans to grow our international operations could cause this exposure from fluctuating currencies to increase. Historically, exchange rates of foreign currencies have fluctuated significantly compared to the U.S. dollar, and this exchange rate volatility is expected to continue. Significant fluctuations in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our balance sheet and results of operations.. 18. The Series A Convertible Preferred Units of CCLP issued on August 2016 and September 2016 (the \"CCLP Preferred Units\") are senior in right of distributions, liquidation and voting to the common units of CCLP, and will result in the issuance of additional CCLP common units in the future, resulting in dilution of our existing common unit ownership in CCLP, and such dilution is potentially unlimited.. CCLP's partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional common units that CCLP may issue at any time without the approval of its common unitholders. In addition, subject to the provisions of the CCLP partnership agreement and the CCLP Series A Preferred Unit Purchase Agreements, as herein defined, CCLP may issue an unlimited number of partnership units that are senior to the common units in right of distribution, liquidation, or voting. On August 8, 2016, CCLP issued an aggregate of 4,374,454 of CCLP Preferred Units for a cash purchase price of $11.43 per CCLP Preferred Unit (the \"Issue Price\"), resulting in total net proceeds, after deducting certain offering expenses, of $49.8 million. We purchased 874,891 of the CCLP Preferred Units at the Issue Price, for a purchase price of $10.0 million. Additionally, on September 20, 2016, CCLP issued an aggregate of 2,624,672 of Preferred Units for a cash purchase price of $11.43 per Preferred Unit, resulting in total net proceeds, after deducting certain offering expenses, of $29.0 million.. Pursuant to the initial CCLP Series A Preferred Unit Purchase Agreement, our wholly owned CSI Compressco GP Inc. subsidiary (the general partner of CCLP), executed the Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Partnership (the \"Amended and Restated CCLP Partnership Agreement\") to, among other things, authorize and establish the rights and preferences of the CCLP Preferred Units. The CCLP Preferred Units are a new class of equity security that ranks senior to CCLP's common units with respect to distribution rights and rights upon liquidation. The holders of CCLP Preferred Units (each, a \"CCLP Preferred Unitholder\") will receive quarterly distributions in kind in additional Preferred Units, equal to an annual rate of 11.00% of the Issue Price ($1.2573 per unit annualized), subject to certain adjustments, including adjustments relating to any future issuances of common units below a set price, and any quarterly distributions on our common units in excess of $0.3775 per common unit. In the event CCLP fails to pay in full any quarterly distribution in additional Preferred Units, then until such failure is cured, CCLP is prohibited from making any distributions on its common units. Beginning March 8, 2017 and on the first trading day of each calendar month thereafter for a total of thirty months (each, a \"Conversion Date\"), the CCLP Preferred Units convert into common units in an amount equal to, with respect to each CCLP Preferred Unitholder, the number of CCLP Preferred Units held by such CCLP Preferred Unitholder divided by the number of Conversion Dates remaining. On June 7, 2017, as permitted under the Amended and Restated CCLP Partnership Agreement, CCLP elected to defer the monthly conversion of CCLP Preferred Units for each of the Conversion Dates during the three month period beginning July 2017. As a result, no CCLP Preferred Units were converted into CCLP common units during the three month period ended September 30, 2017, and future monthly conversions were increased beginning in October 2017. During 2017, conversions of the CCLP Preferred Units resulted in the issuance of 3.7 million CCLP common units. CCLP anticipates that the number of CCLP common units that will be issued upon conversions of the CCLP Preferred Units during 2018 will increase, as monthly conversions are expected during the full year of 2018 and due to the three month deferral of conversions during 2017. CCLP may, at its option, pay cash, or a combination of cash and common units, to the CCLP Preferred Unitholders instead of issuing common units on any Conversion Date, subject to certain restrictions as described in the Amended and Restated CCLP Partnership Agreement and the CCLP Credit Agreement.. Because we own 40% of the outstanding CCLP common units, 12.6% of the newly issued CCLP Preferred Units, and approximately 2% general partner interest in CCLP, as a result of the conversion of the CCLP Preferred Units into CCLP common units:. • our previously existing ownership interest in the common units of CCLP will decrease;. • the amount of cash available for distribution on each CCLP common unit may decrease;. • the voting power attributable to our previously existing CCLP common units will be diminished; and. • the market price of CCLP common units may decline.. We and CCLP are exposed to interest rate risks with regard to our respective credit facility indebtedness.. As of December 31, 2017, CCLP has a total of $224.0 million outstanding under its revolving credit facility, and we did not have any outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility. In connection with the SwiftWater acquisition, we borrowed $40.0 million and we may borrow additional amounts under our revolving credit facility in the future. These revolving credit facilities consist of floating rate loans that bear interest at an agreed upon percentage rate spread (which is determined on our leverage ratio) above London Interbank Offered Rate (\"LIBOR\"). Accordingly, our cash flows and results of operations could be subject to interest rate risk exposure. 19. associated with the level of the variable rate debt balance outstanding. We currently are not a party to an interest rate swap contract or other derivative instrument designed to hedge our exposure to interest rate fluctuation risk.. Our revolving credit facility is scheduled to mature on September 30, 2019. CCLP's revolving credit facility is scheduled to mature on August 4, 2019. Our 11% Senior Note, which matures November 2022, and CCLP's 7.25% Senior Notes, which mature August 2022, bear interest at fixed interest rates. There can be no assurance that the financial market conditions or borrowing terms at the times these existing debt agreements are renegotiated will be as favorable as the current terms and interest rates.. Legal, Regulatory, and Political Risks. Our operations are subject to extensive and evolving U.S. and foreign federal, state and local laws and regulatory requirements that increase our operating costs and expose us to potential fines, penalties, and litigation.. Laws and regulations govern our operations, including those relating to corporate governance, employees, taxation, fees, importation and exportation restrictions, environmental affairs, health and safety, and the manufacture, storage, handling, transportation, use, and sale of chemical products. Certain foreign countries impose additional restrictions on our activities, such as currency restrictions and restrictions on various labor practices. These laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex and stringent, and compliance is becoming increasingly expensive. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with these regulations, and violators are subject to civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, and injunctions. Third parties may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance with certain laws and regulations. It is possible that increasingly strict environmental, health and safety laws, regulations, and enforcement policies could result in substantial costs and liabilities to us.. The EPA is studying the environmental impact of hydraulic fracturing, a process used by the U.S. oil and gas industry in the development of certain oil and gas reservoirs. Specifically, the EPA is reviewing the impact of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. Certain environmental and other groups have suggested that additional federal, state, and local laws and regulations may be needed to more closely regulate the hydraulic fracturing process. Several states have adopted regulations that require operators to disclose the chemical constituents in hydraulic fracturing fluids. We cannot predict whether any federal, state or local laws or regulations will be enacted regarding hydraulic fracturing, and, if so, what actions any such laws or regulations would require or prohibit. If additional levels of regulation or permitting requirements were imposed on oil and gas operators through the adoption of new laws and regulations, the domestic demand for certain of our products and services could be decreased or subject to delays, particularly for our Production Testing, Compression, and Fluids Divisions.. We have operations that are either ongoing or scheduled to commence in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. At this time, we cannot predict the full impact that other regulatory actions that may be mandated by the federal government may have on our operations or the operations of our customers. Other governmental or regulatory actions could further reduce our revenues and increase our operating costs, including the cost to insure offshore operations, resulting in reduced cash flows and profitability.. Our onshore and offshore operations expose us to risks such as the potential for harmful substances escaping into the environment and causing damages or injuries, which could be substantial. Although we maintain general liability and pollution liability insurance, these policies are subject to exceptions and coverage limits. We maintain limited environmental liability insurance covering named locations and environmental risks associated with contract services for oil and gas operations. We could be materially and adversely affected by an enforcement proceeding or a claim that is not covered or is only partially covered by insurance.. Because our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, existing or future laws, regulations, treaties, or international agreements that impose additional restrictions on the industry may adversely affect our financial results. Regulators are becoming more focused on air emissions from oil and gas operations, including volatile organic compounds, hazardous air pollutants, and greenhouse gases. In particular, the focus on greenhouse gases and climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, could have a negative impact on our financial results if such laws, regulations, treaties, or international agreements reduce the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or otherwise result in reduced economic activity generally. In addition, such laws, regulations, treaties, or international agreements could result in increased compliance costs, capital spending requirements, or additional operating restrictions for us, which may have a negative impact on our financial results.. 20. In addition to increasing our risk of environmental liability, the rigorous enforcement of environmental laws and regulations has accelerated the growth of some of the markets we serve. Decreased regulation and enforcement in the future could materially and adversely affect the demand for certain of the services offered by our Offshore Services operations and, therefore, materially and adversely affect our business.. Our expansion into foreign countries exposes us to complex regulations and may present us with new obstacles to growth.. We plan to continue to grow both in the United States and in foreign countries. We have established operations in, among other countries, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Finland, Ghana, Mexico, Norway, Saudi Arabia, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. Foreign operations carry special risks. Our business in the countries in which we currently operate and those in which we may operate in the future could be limited or disrupted by:. • restrictions on repatriating cash back to the United States;. • the impact of compliance with anti-corruption laws on our operations and competitive position in affected countries and the risk that actions taken by us or our agents may violate those laws;. • government controls and government actions, such as expropriation of assets and changes in legal and regulatory environments;. • import and export license requirements;. • political, social, or economic instability;. • trade restrictions;. • changes in tariffs and taxes; and. • our limited knowledge of these markets or our inability to protect our interests.. We and our affiliates operate in countries where governmental corruption has been known to exist. While we and our subsidiaries are committed to conducting business in a legal and ethical manner, there is a risk of violating either the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K Bribery Act, or laws or legislation promulgated pursuant to the 1997 OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions or other applicable anti-corruption regulations that generally prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. Violation of these laws could result in monetary penalties against us or our subsidiaries and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business.. Foreign governments and agencies often establish permit and regulatory standards different from those in the U.S. If we cannot obtain foreign regulatory approvals, or if we cannot obtain them in a timely manner, our growth and profitability from foreign operations could be adversely affected.. Our operations in Argentina expose us to the changing economic, legal, and political environments in that country, including the changing regulations over repatriation of cash generated from our operations in Argentina.. The current economic, legal, and political environment in Argentina and recent devaluation of the Argentinian peso have created increased economic instability for foreign investment in Argentina. The Argentinian government is currently attempting to address the current high rate of inflation and the continuing devaluations pressure. Fiscal and monetary expansion in Argentina has led to devaluations of the Argentinian peso, particularly in late 2013, early 2014, and late 2015. Additional currency adjustment may be necessary to help boost the current Argentina economy, but may be accompanied by fiscal and monetary tightening, including additional restrictions on the purchase of U.S. dollars in Argentina.. As a result of our operations in Argentina, consolidated revenues and operating cash flow generated in Argentina have increased over the past three years. As of December 31, 2017, approximately $0.9 million of our consolidated cash balance is located in Argentina, and the process of repatriating this cash to the U.S. is subject to increasingly complex regulations. There can be no assurances that our growing Argentinian operations will not expose us to a loss of liquidity, foreign exchange losses, and other potential financial impacts.. Tax laws and regulations may change over time, and the recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. 21. On December 22, 2017, H.R.1, \"An Act to Provide the Reconciliation Pursuant to Titles II and V of the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2018\" (the \"Act\") (previously known as \"The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\") was signed into law making significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code. The Act, among other things, (i) permanently reduces the U.S. corporate income tax rate, (ii) repeals the corporate alternative minimum tax, (iii) eliminates the deduction for certain domestic production activities, (iv) imposes new limitations on the utilization of net operating losses, and (v) provides for more general changes to the taxation of corporations, including changes to cost recovery rules and to the deductibility of interest expense, which may impact the taxation of oil and gas companies. The Act is complex and far-reaching and we cannot predict with certainty the resulting impact its enactment has on us. The ultimate impact of the Act may differ from our estimates due to changes in interpretations and assumptions made by us as well as additional regulatory guidance that may be issued and any such changes in interpretations or assumptions could adversely affect our business and financial condition. See \"Note E - Income Taxes\" to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of \"greenhouse gases\" could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas our customers produce, while the physical effects of climate change could disrupt production and cause us to incur costs in preparing for or responding to those effects.. The EPA has determined that greenhouse gases (\"GHGs\") present an endangerment to public health and the environment, because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act (\"CAA\"). Such EPA rules regulate GHG emissions under the CAA and require a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and from certain large stationary sources. The EPA rules also require so-called \"green\" completions at hydraulically fractured natural gas wells beginning in 2015. In addition, the EPA also requires the annual reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the United States, including petroleum refineries, as well as from certain oil and gas production facilities.. In addition, in December 2015, over 190 countries, including the United States, reached an agreement to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions (the \"Paris Agreement\"). The Paris Agreement entered into force in November 2016 after more than 170 nations, including the United States, ratified or otherwise indicated their intent to be bound by the Paris Agreement. However, in June 2017, President Trump announced that the United States intends to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and to seek negotiations either to reenter the Paris Agreement on different terms or a separate agreement. In August 2017, the U.S. Department of State officially informed the United Nations of the United States' intent to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement provides for a four-year exit process beginning when it took effect in November 2016, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020. The United States' adherence to the exit process and/or the terms on which the United States may re-enter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time. To the extent that the United States and other countries implement the Paris Agreement or impose other climate change regulations on the oil and natural gas industry, it could have an adverse effect on our business.. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our facilities and operations could require us to incur costs. Further, Congress has considered and almost one-half of the states have adopted legislation that seeks to control or reduce emissions of GHGs from a wide range of sources. Any such legislation could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas our customers produce and, in turn, demand for our products and services. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our operations and cause us to incur costs in preparing for or responding to those effects.. Regulatory initiatives related to hydraulic fracturing in the countries where we and our customers operate could result in operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and gas wells that may reduce demand for our services.. 22. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from dense subsurface rock formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand or other proppants and chemical additives under pressure into targeted geological formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production.. Hydraulic fracturing typically is regulated by state oil and gas commissions or similar state agencies, but several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. For example, the EPA asserted regulatory authority pursuant to the federal Safe Drinking Water Act (\"SDWA\") Underground Injection Control (\"UIC\") program over hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel and issued guidance covering such activities; published final rules under the federal CAA in 2012 and published additional final regulations in June 2016 governing methane and volatile organic compound (\"VOC\") performance standards, including standards for the capture of air emissions released during for the oil and natural gas hydraulic fracturing industry; published in June 2016 an effluent limitations guidelines final rule prohibiting the discharge of waste water from shale natural-gas extraction operations before discharging to a treatment plant; and in 2014 published an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding Toxic Substances Control Act reporting of the chemical substances and mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing. Also, the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (\"BLM\") published a final rule in March 2015 that established new or more stringent standards for performing hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian lands. However, in June 2016, a Wyoming federal judge struck down this final rule, finding that the BLM lacked authority to promulgate the rule, the BLM appealed the decision to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit in July 2016, the appellate court issued a ruling in September 2017 to vacate the Wyoming trial court decision and dismiss the lawsuit challenging the 2015 rule in response to the BLM's issuance of a proposed rulemaking to rescind the 2015 rule and, in December 2017, the BLM published a final rule rescinding the March 2015 rule. In January 2018, litigation challenging the BLM's rescission of the 2015 rule was brought in federal court, but, in June 2016, a Wyoming federal judge struck down this final rule, finding that the BLM lacked authority to promulgate the rule. That decision was appealed by the BLM to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit in 2016, but, in March 2017, the BLM filed a request with the Tenth Circuit to put the appeal on hold pending rescission of the 2015 final rule.. The U.S. Congress (\"Congress\") has from time to time considered legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. At the state level, some states, including Texas, Oklahoma and New Mexico, where the drilling program is expected to operate, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting legal requirements that could impose new or more stringent permitting, public disclosure, or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. States could elect to prohibit high volume hydraulic fracturing altogether, following the approach taken by the State of New York in 2015. Local governments also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular. If new or more stringent federal, state, or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where the drilling program operates, including, for example, on federal and American Indian lands, the partnership could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells. In December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, concluding that \"water cycle\" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources under some circumstances. \"Water cycle\" describes the use of water in hydraulic fracturing, from water withdrawals to the making of hydraulic fracturing fluids, through the mixing and injection of hydraulic fracturing fluids in oil and natural gas production wells, to the collection and disposal or reuse of produced water.. Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition to oil and gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs for our customers in the production of oil and gas, including from the developing shale plays, or could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing. The adoption of any federal, state or local laws or the implementation of additional regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could potentially cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and gas wells and an associated decrease in demand for our services and increased compliance costs and time, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition.. 23. Regulatory initiatives relating to the protection of endangered or threatened species in the United States, in other countries where we operate, could have an adverse impact on our and our customers' ability to expand operations.. In the United States, the Endangered Species Act (the \"ESA\") restricts activities that may affect endangered or threatened species or their habitats. Similar protections are offered to migratory birds under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (the \"MBTA\"). To the extent species that are listed under the ESA or similar state laws, or are protected under the MBTA, live in the areas where we or our customers operate, both our and our customers' abilities to conduct or expand operations and construct facilities could be limited or be forced to incur material additional costs.. The designation of previously unidentified endangered or threatened species could indirectly cause us to incur additional costs, cause our or our customers' operations to become subject to operating restrictions or bans, and limit future development activity in affected areas. In addition, as a result of a settlement approved by the United States for the District of Columbia in 2011, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is required to make a determination of listing of numerous species as endangered or threatened under the Endangered Species Act prior to the completion of the agency's 2017 fiscal year. The designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where we or our customers might conduct operations could result in limitations or prohibitions on our operations and could adversely impact our business.. Our proprietary rights may be violated or compromised, which could damage our operations.. We own numerous patents, patent applications, and unpatented trade secret technologies in the U.S. and certain foreign countries. There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to deter misappropriation of these rights. In addition, independent third parties may develop competitive or superior technologies.. Our operations and reputation may be impaired if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or if we are the subject of a data breach or cyberattack.. Our information technology systems are critically important to operating our business efficiently. We rely on our information technology systems to manage our business data, communications, supply chain, customer invoicing, employee information, and other business processes. We outsource certain business process functions to third-party providers and similarly rely on these third-parties to maintain and store confidential information on their systems. The failure of these information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer.. Furthermore, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to security breaches beyond our control, including those involving cyberattacks using viruses, worms or other destructive software, process breakdowns, phishing or other malicious activities, or any combination of the foregoing. Such breaches have in the past and could again in the future result in unauthorized access to information including customer, supplier, employee, or other company confidential data. We do not carry insurance against these risks, although we do invest in security technology, perform penetration tests from time to time, and design our business processes to attempt to mitigate the risk of such breaches. However, there can be no assurance that security breaches will not occur. Moreover, the development and maintenance of these measures requires continuous monitoring as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures evolve. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, cyber security threats and incidents, none of which has been material to us to date. However, a successful breach or attack could have a material negative impact on our operations or business reputation and subject us to consequences such as litigation and direct costs associated with incident response."
