[1] "ITEM 1A.  Risk Factors.. You should read the following risk factors in conjunction with the factors discussed elsewhere in this and other of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and in materials incorporated by reference into these filings. These risk factors are intended to highlight certain factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operations and are not meant to be an exhaustive discussion of risks that apply to TI, a company with broad international operations. Like other companies, we are susceptible to macroeconomic downturns in the United States or abroad that may affect the general economic climate and our performance and the performance of our customers. Similarly, the price of our securities is subject to volatility due to fluctuations in general market conditions, actual financial results that do not meet our and/or the investment community's expectations, changes in our and/or the investment community's expectations for our future results and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. We face substantial competition that requires us to respond rapidly to product development and pricing pressures.. We face intense technological and pricing competition in the markets in which we operate. We expect this competition will continue to increase from large competitors and from small competitors serving niche markets, and also from emerging companies, particularly in Asia, that sell products into the same markets in which we operate. For example, we may face increased competition as a result of China actively promoting and reshaping its domestic semiconductor industry through policy changes and investment. These actions may restrict us from participating in the China market or may prevent us from competing effectively with Chinese companies. Certain competitors possess sufficient financial, technical and management resources to develop and market products that may compete favorably against our products, and consolidation among our competitors may allow them to compete more effectively. Additionally, traditional intellectual property licensors are increasingly providing functionality, designs and complete hardware or software solutions that compete with our products. The price and product development pressures that result from competition may lead to reduced profit margins and lost business opportunities in the event that we are unable to match the price declines or cost efficiencies, or meet the technological, product, support, software or manufacturing advancements of our competitors.. Changes in expected demand for our products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our customers include companies in a wide range of end markets and sectors within those markets. If demand in one or more sectors within our end markets declines or the rate of growth slows, our results of operations may be adversely affected. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor market may lead to significant and rapid increases and decreases in product demand. Additionally, the loss or significant curtailment of purchases by one or more of our large customers, including curtailments due to a change in the design or manufacturing sourcing policies or practices of these customers, or the timing of customer or distributor inventory adjustments, may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our results of operations also might suffer because of a general decline in customer demand resulting from, for example: uncertainty regarding the stability of global credit and financial markets; natural events or domestic or international political, social, economic or other conditions; breaches of customer information technology systems that disrupt customer operations; or a customer's inability to access credit markets and other sources of needed liquidity.. Our ability to match inventory and production with the product mix needed to fill orders may affect our ability to meet a quarter's revenue forecast. In addition, when responding to customers' requests for shorter shipment lead times, we manufacture products based on forecasts of customers' demands. These forecasts are based on multiple assumptions. If we inaccurately forecast customer demand, we may hold inadequate, excess or obsolete inventory that would reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. 9. Our global operations subject us to risks associated with domestic or international political, social, economic or other conditions.. We have facilities in more than 30 countries. About 85 percent of our revenue comes from shipments to locations outside the United States; in particular, shipments of products into China typically represent a large portion of our revenue. We are exposed to political, social and economic conditions, security risks, terrorism or other hostile acts, health conditions, labor conditions, and possible disruptions in transportation, communications and information technology networks of the various countries in which we operate, including the United States. Additionally, certain countries where we operate have experienced, and other countries may experience, increasing protectionism that may impact global trade. This could result in an adverse effect on our operations and our financial results. In addition, our global operations expose us to periods when the U.S. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to the non-U.S. currencies in which we transact business. The remeasurement of non-U.S. dollar transactions can have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our operating results and our reputation could be adversely affected by breaches or disruptions of information technology systems.. Breaches or disruptions of our information technology systems or the systems of our customers, vendors and other third parties could be caused by factors such as computer viruses, system failures, restricted network access, unauthorized access, terrorism, employee malfeasance, or human error. These events could, among other things, compromise our information technology networks; result in corrupt or lost data or the unauthorized release of our, our customers' or our suppliers' confidential or proprietary information; cause a disruption to our manufacturing and other operations; result in the release of personal data; or cause us to incur costs associated with increased protection, remediation or penalties, any of which could adversely affect our operating results and our reputation. Cybersecurity threats are frequent and constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of defending against them.. Our results of operations could be affected by natural events in the locations in which we operate.. We have manufacturing, data and design facilities and other operations in locations subject to natural occurrences such as severe weather, geological events or health epidemics that could disrupt operations. A natural disaster that results in a prolonged disruption to our operations may adversely affect our results and financial condition.. Rapid technological change in markets we serve requires us to develop new technologies and products.. Rapid technological change in markets we serve could contribute to shortened product life cycles and a decline in average selling prices of our products. Our results of operations depend in part upon our ability to successfully develop, manufacture and market innovative products in a timely manner. We make significant investments in research and development to improve existing technology and products and develop new ones to meet changing customer demands. In some cases, we might not realize a return on our investments because they are generally made before commercial viability can be assured. Further, projects that are commercially viable may not contribute significant revenue until at least a few years after they are completed.. We face supply chain and manufacturing risks.. We rely on third parties to supply us with goods and services in a cost-effective and timely manner. Our access to needed goods and services may be adversely affected by potential disputes with suppliers or disruptions in our suppliers' operations as a result of, for example: quality excursions; uncertainty regarding the stability of global credit and financial markets; domestic or international political, social, economic and other conditions; natural events in the locations in which our suppliers operate; or limited or delayed access to key raw materials, natural resources and utilities. Additionally, a breach of our suppliers' information technology systems could result in a release of our confidential or proprietary information. If our suppliers are unable to access credit markets and other sources of needed liquidity, we may be unable to obtain needed supplies, collect accounts receivable or access needed technology.. In particular, our manufacturing processes and critical manufacturing equipment require that certain key raw materials, natural resources and utilities be available. Limited or delayed access to and high costs of these items could adversely affect our results of operations. Our products contain materials that are subject to conflict minerals reporting requirements. Our relationships with customers and suppliers may be adversely affected if we are unable to describe our products as conflict-free. Additionally, our costs may increase if one or more of our customers demand that we change the sourcing of materials we cannot identify as conflict-free.. 10. Our inability to timely implement new manufacturing technologies or install manufacturing equipment could adversely affect our results of operations. We subcontract a portion of our wafer fabrication and assembly and testing of our products, and we depend on third parties to provide advanced logic manufacturing process technology development. We do not have long-term contracts with all of these suppliers, and the number of alternate suppliers is limited. Reliance on these suppliers involves risks, including possible shortages of capacity in periods of high demand, suppliers' inability to develop and deliver advanced logic manufacturing process technology in a timely, cost effective, and appropriate manner and the possibility of suppliers' imposition of increased costs on us.. Our operations could be affected by the complex laws, rules and regulations to which our business is subject.. We are subject to complex laws, rules and regulations affecting our domestic and international operations relating to, for example, the environment, safety and health; exports and imports; bribery and corruption; tax; data privacy and protection; labor and employment; competition; market access; intellectual property ownership and infringement; and the movement of currency. Compliance with these laws, rules and regulations may be onerous and expensive and could restrict our ability to manufacture or ship our products and operate our business. If we fail to comply or if we become subject to enforcement activity, we could be subject to fines, penalties or other legal liability. Furthermore, should these laws, rules and regulations be amended or expanded, or new ones enacted, we could incur materially greater compliance costs or restrictions on our ability to manufacture our products and operate our business.. Some of these complex laws, rules and regulations  -  for example, those related to environmental, safety and health requirements  -  may particularly affect us in the jurisdictions in which we manufacture products, especially if such laws and regulations: require the use of abatement equipment beyond what we currently employ; require the addition or elimination of a raw material or process to or from our current manufacturing processes; or impose costs, fees or reporting requirements on the direct or indirect use of energy, natural resources, or materials or gases used or emitted into the environment in connection with the manufacture of our products. A substitute for a prohibited raw material or process might not be available, or might not be available at reasonable cost.. Our results of operations and our reputation could be affected by warranty claims, product liability claims, product recalls or legal proceedings.. We could be subject to claims based on warranty, product liability, epidemic or delivery failures, or other grounds relating to our products, manufacturing, services, designs, communications or cybersecurity that could lead to significant expenses as we defend such claims or pay damage awards or settlements. In the event of a claim, we may also incur costs if we decide to compensate the affected customer or end consumer. We maintain product liability insurance, but there is no guarantee that such insurance will be available or adequate to protect against all such claims. In addition, it is possible for one of our customers to recall a product containing a TI part, for example, with respect to products used in automotive applications or handheld electronics, which may cause us to incur costs and expenses relating to the recall. Any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and our reputation.. Our results of operations could be affected by changes in tax-related matters.. We have facilities in more than 30 countries and as a result are subject to taxation and audit by a number of taxing authorities. Tax rates vary among the jurisdictions in which we operate. A number of factors could cause our tax rate to increase, including a change in the jurisdictions in which our profits are earned and taxed; a change in the mix of profits from those jurisdictions; changes in available tax credits; changes in applicable tax rates; changes in tariff regulations or surcharges; changes in accounting principles; or adverse resolution of audits by taxing authorities. We have deferred tax assets on our balance sheet. Changes in applicable tax laws and regulations or in our business performance could affect our ability to realize those deferred tax assets, which could also affect our results of operations. If our tax rate increases, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. In addition, we are subject to laws and regulations in various jurisdictions that determine how much profit has been earned and when it is subject to taxation in that jurisdiction. Changes in these laws and regulations, including those that align with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development's Base Erosion and Profit Shifting recommendations, could affect the locations where we are deemed to earn income, which could in turn affect our results of operations. Each quarter we forecast our tax liability based on our forecast of our performance for the year. If that performance forecast changes, our forecasted tax liability will change.. Our initial estimates of the financial impact of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, enacted in December 2017, may change as we refine our analysis and as additional guidance becomes available. If in the future we repatriate any of the earnings represented by non-cash, operating assets such as inventory and fixed assets, we might incur incremental non-U.S. taxes, which could affect our results of operations.. 11. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if a customer or a distributor suffers a loss with respect to our inventory.. We have consignment inventory programs in place for some of our largest customers and distributors. If a customer or distributor were to experience a loss with respect to TI-consigned inventory, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we do not recover the full value of the lost inventory from the customer, distributor or insurer, or if our recovery is delayed.. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by our distributors' promotion of competing product lines or our distributors' financial performance.. In 2017, about 65 percent of our revenue was generated from sales of our products through distributors. Our distributors carry competing product lines, and our sales could be affected if our distributors promote competing products over our products. Moreover, our results of operations could be affected if our distributors suffer financial difficulties that result in their inability to pay amounts owed to us. Disputes with or the loss of a significant number of distributors could be disruptive or harmful to our current business.. Our margins may vary over time.. Our profit margins may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including decreases in customer demand and shipment volume; obsolescence of our inventory; shifts in our product mix; changes in tariffs; changes in our manufacturing processes; and new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting practices or standards. In addition, we operate in a highly competitive market environment that might adversely affect pricing for our products. Because we own much of our manufacturing capacity, a significant portion of our operating costs is fixed. In general, these fixed costs do not decline with reductions in customer demand or factory loadings, and can adversely affect profit margins as a result.. Our performance depends in part on our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights and to maintain freedom of operation.. Access to worldwide markets depends in part on the continued strength of our intellectual property portfolio in all jurisdictions where we conduct business. There can be no assurance that, as our business evolves, we will obtain the necessary intellectual property rights, or that we will be able to independently develop the technology, software or know-how necessary to conduct our business or that we can do so without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. To the extent that we have to rely on licensed technology from others, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain licenses at all or on terms we consider reasonable. We may, directly or indirectly, face infringement claims from third parties, including non-practicing entities that have acquired patents to pursue enforcement actions against other companies. We may also face infringement claims where we or our customers make, use or sell products and where the intellectual property laws may be less established or less predictable. These assertions, whether or not of any merit, could expose us to claims for damages and/or injunctions from third parties, as well as claims for indemnification by our customers in instances where we have a contractual or other legal obligation to indemnify them against damages resulting from infringement claims.. We actively enforce and protect our own intellectual property rights. However, our efforts cannot prevent all misappropriation or improper use of our protected technology and information, including, for example, third parties' use of our patented or copyrighted technology, or our trade secrets in their products without the right to do so, or third parties' sale of counterfeit products bearing our trademark. The risk of unfair copying or cloning may impede our ability to sell our products. The laws of countries where we operate may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws.. Our debt could affect our operations and financial condition.. From time to time, we issue debt securities with various interest rates and maturities. While we believe we will have the ability to service this debt, our ability to make principal and interest payments when due depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles, and business and other factors affecting our operations, including our other risk factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, our obligation to make principal and interest payments could divert funds that otherwise would be invested in our operations or returned to shareholders, or could cause us to raise funds by, for example, issuing new debt or equity or selling assets.. 12. Our results of operations and liquidity could be affected by changes in the financial markets.. We maintain bank accounts, one or more multi-year revolving credit agreements, and a portfolio of investments to support the financing needs of the company. Our ability to fund our operations, invest in our business, make strategic acquisitions, service our debt obligations and meet our cash return objectives depends upon continuous access to our bank and investment accounts, and may depend on access to our bank credit lines that support commercial paper borrowings and provide additional liquidity through short-term bank loans. If we are unable to access these accounts and credit lines (for example, due to instability in the financial markets), our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected and our ability to access the capital markets or redeem our investments could be restricted.. Increases in health care and pension benefit costs could affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Federal and state health care reform programs could increase our costs with regard to medical coverage of our employees, which could reduce profitability and affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, obligations related to our pension and other postretirement plans reflect assumptions that affect the planned funding and costs of these plans, including the actual return on plan assets, discount rates, plan participant population demographics and changes in pension regulations. Changes in these assumptions may affect plan funding, cash flow and results of operations, and our costs and funding obligations could increase significantly if our plans' actual experience differs from these assumptions.. Our continued success depends in part on our ability to retain and recruit a sufficient number of qualified employees in a competitive environment.. Our continued success depends in part on the retention and recruitment of skilled personnel, including engineering, management, marketing, technical and staff personnel. Skilled and experienced personnel in our industry are in high demand, and competition for their talents is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully retain and recruit the key engineering, management and technical personnel that we require to execute our business strategy. Our ability to recruit internationally or deploy employees to various locations may be limited by immigration laws.. Our ability to successfully implement business and organizational changes could affect our business plans and results of operations.. From time to time, we undertake business and organizational changes, including acquisitions, divestitures and restructuring actions, to support or carry out our strategic objectives. Our failure to successfully implement these changes could adversely affect our business plans and operating results. For example, we may not realize the expected benefits of an acquisition if we are unable to timely and successfully integrate acquired operations, product lines and technology, and our pre-acquisition due diligence may not identify all possible issues and risks that might arise with respect to an acquisition. Further, we may not achieve or sustain the expected growth or cost savings benefits of business and organizational changes, and restructuring charges could differ materially in amount and timing from our expectations.. Material impairments of our goodwill or intangible assets could adversely affect our results of operations.. We have a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet. Charges associated with impairments of goodwill or intangible assets could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations."
