[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Future changes in interest rates could reduce our net income.. Our net income largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings.. The vast majority of our assets and liabilities are financial in nature, and as a result, changes in market and competitive interest rates can impact our customers' actions as well as the types and amount of business opportunities that are available to us. In general, when changes occur in interest rates that prompt our existing customers to pursue strategies that are beneficial to them, the results are generally unfavorable for us.. Generally, in a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities because, like many savings institutions, our liabilities generally have shorter contractual maturities than our assets. An example of this occurs when, interest rates paid on certificates of deposit experience a significant increase. In this circumstance, a CD customer may determine that it is in his/her best interest to incur the existing penalty for early withdrawal, tender the certificate for cash and either reinvest the proceeds in a new CD with us, or withdraw the funds and leave us. As a result, we either establish a new, higher rate certificate (if the customer stays with us) or we must fund the customer's withdrawal by: (1) reducing our cash reserves; (2) selling assets to generate cash to fund the withdrawal; (3) attracting deposits from another customer at the then-higher interest rate; or (4) borrowing from a wholesale lender like the FHLB of Cincinnati, again at the then-higher interest rate. Each of these alternatives can have an unfavorable impact on us.. As another example of changes in interest rates that can have an unfavorable impact on our net interest income, if mortgage interest rates decline, our customers may seek to refinance, without penalty, their mortgage loans with us or repay their mortgage loans with us and borrow from another lender. When that happens, either the yield that we earn on the customer's loan is reduced (if the customer refinances with us) or the mortgage is paid off and we are faced with the challenge of reinvesting the cash received to repay the mortgage in a lower interest rate environment. This is frequently referred to as reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest the proceeds of loan prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the loans prior to receipt of the repayment. Reinvestment risk also exists with the securities in our investment portfolio that are backed by mortgage loans.. Our net interest income can also be negatively impacted when assets and funding sources with seemingly similar, but not identical re-pricing characteristics react differently to changing interest rates. An example is our home equity lines of credit loan portfolio and our high yield checking and high yield savings deposit products. Interest rates charged on our home equity lines of credit loans are linked to the prime rate of interest, which generally adjusts in a direct relationship to changes in the FRS's Federal Funds target rate. Similarly, our High Yield Checking and High Yield Savings deposit products are generally expected to adjust when changes are made to the Federal Funds target rate. However, to the extent that increases or decreases are made to the Federal Funds target rate, and those increases or decreases translate into increases or decreases of the prime rate and the rate charged on our home equity lines of credit loans, but do not extend to equivalent adjustments to our High Yield Checking and High Yield Savings deposit products, we can experience a reduction in our net interest income. At September 30, 2017, we held $1.46 billion of home equity lines of credit loans and $2.27 billion of High Yield Checking and High Yield Savings deposits.. Our net income can also be reduced by the impact that changes in interest rates can have on the value of our capitalized mortgage servicing rights. As of September 30, 2017, we serviced $1.85 billion of loans sold to third parties, and the mortgage servicing rights associated with such loans had an amortized cost of $8.4 million and an estimated fair value, at that date, of $16.1 million. Because the estimated life and estimated income to be derived from servicing the underlying mortgage loans generally increase with rising interest rates and decrease with falling interest rates, the value of mortgage servicing rights generally increases as interest rates rise and decreases as interest rates fall. If interest rates fall and the value of our capitalized servicing rights decrease, we may be required to recognize an additional impairment charge against income for the amount by which amortized cost exceeds estimated fair market value.. Our securities portfolio may be impacted by fluctuations in market value, potentially reducing accumulated other comprehensive income and/or earnings. Fluctuations in market value may be caused by changes in market interest rates, lower market prices for securities and limited investor demand. Changes in interest rates can also have an adverse effect on our financial condition, as our available-for-sale securities are reported at their estimated fair value, and therefore are impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. We increase or decrease our stockholders' equity by the amount of change in the estimated fair value of the available-for-sale securities, net of taxes. The declines in market value could result in other-than-temporary. 42. Table of Contents. impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels.. In general, changes in market and competitive interest rates result from events that we do not control and over which we generally have little or no influence. As a result, mitigation of the adverse affects of changing interest rates is generally limited to controlling the composition of the assets and liabilities that we hold. To monitor our positions, we maintain an interest rate risk modeling system which is designed to measure our interest rate risk sensitivity.  Using customized modeling software, the Association prepares periodic estimates of the amounts by which the net present value of its cash flows from assets, liabilities and off balance sheet items (the institution's economic value of equity) would change in the event of a range of assumed changes in market interest rates. The simulation model uses a discounted cash flow analysis and an option-based pricing approach in measuring the interest rate sensitivity of EVE. At September 30, 2017, in the event of an immediate 200 basis point increase in all interest rates, our model projects that we would experience a $386.6 million, or 18.33%, decrease in EVE. Our calculations further project that, at September 30, 2017, in the event that market interest rates used in the simulation were adjusted in equal monthly amounts (termed a \"ramped\" format) during the 12 month measurement period to an aggregate increase in 200 basis points, we would expect our projected net interest income for the twelve months ended September 30, 2018 to decrease by 1.63%. See \"Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.\". A continuation of historically low interest rates and the possibility that we may access higher-cost funds to support our growth may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability.. During the past several years, it has been the policy of the Board of Governors of the FRS to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of U.S. Treasury and mortgage-backed securities. As a result, market rates on the loans we have originated and the yields on securities we have purchased have been at lower levels than available prior to 2008. This has been a significant factor in the decrease in the amount of our interest income to $409.0 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 from $550.2 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008 while the average balance of total interest earning assets increased to $12.93 billion for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 from $10.10 billion for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which, as interest rates declined, has generally resulted in progressive increases in net interest income since 2008. However, because interest rates have been low for so long, our ability to further lower our interest expense may become increasingly difficult while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease, and our interest expense may increase as we access non-core funding sources or increase deposit rates to fund our operations.. Accordingly, our net interest income (the difference between interest income earned on assets and interest expense paid on liabilities) may be adversely affected which may have an adverse effect on our profitability.. Difficult market conditions, geographic concentration and heightened regulatory scrutiny have already affected us and our industry and may continue to do so.. Our performance is significantly impacted by the general economic conditions in our primary markets in the states of Ohio and Florida, and surrounding areas, which were severely affected during the 2008 financial crisis and its aftermath. A recurrence of those or similar difficult market conditions is likely to again result in high levels of unemployment, which will further weaken recently, and in some cases, continuing distressed local economies and could result in additional defaults of mortgage loans. Most of the loans in our loan portfolio are secured by real estate located in our primary market areas. Negative conditions, such as layoffs, in the markets where collateral for a mortgage loan is located could adversely affect a borrower's ability to repay the loan and the value of the collateral securing the loan. Declines in the U.S. housing market during and in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis, as manifested by falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, as well as unemployment and under-employment, all negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions.. In response to the financial crisis of 2008, many lenders and institutional investors reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. While the economy has progressed on a tenuous road to recovery and we have experienced significant improvements in the credit metrics in our mortgage portfolio, a relapse or worsening of the conditions associated with the 2008 financial crisis would likely exacerbate the adverse effects that those difficult market conditions had on us and others in the financial industry. In particular, we already face and would expect to continue to face the following risks in connection with these events:. 43. Table of Contents. • Increased regulation of our industry, heightened supervisory scrutiny related to the USA Patriot Act, Bank Secrecy Act, Fair Lending and other laws and regulations, including those still contemplated by the DFA,  along with enhanced monitoring of compliance with such regulation, including, as an institution with assets in excess of $10 billion, direct supervision by the CFPB.  Each aspect of amplified supervision and regulation will in all likelihood increase our costs, may be accompanied by the risk of unexpected fines, sanctions, penalties, litigation and corresponding management diversion and may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities and return capital to our shareholders.. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors.. • The processes we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure require difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of viable estimation and which may, in turn, impact the reliability of our evaluation processes, the comfort of our regulators with respect to the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses and who may require adjustments thereto, and ultimately could result in increased provisions for loan losses and reduced levels of earnings and capital.. • Our ability to engage in sales of mortgage loans to third parties (including mortgage loan securitization transactions with governmental entities) on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including deteriorating investor expectations.. • Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions.. Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and our income.. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the FRS, the OCC, the CFPB and the FDIC. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on a bank's operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of a bank's allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws and applicable regulations are subject to frequent change. Any change in these regulations and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, new regulations or legislation or additional deposit insurance premiums could have a material impact on our operations.. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, or changes in policy, affecting lending and funding practices and liquidity standards. Moreover, bank regulatory agencies have been active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, and have issued many formal enforcement orders requiring capital ratios in excess of regulatory requirements. Bank regulatory agencies, such as the FRS, the OCC, the CFPB and the FDIC, govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors, and not for the protection or benefit of potential investors. In addition, new laws and regulations may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws and regulations may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, the fees we can charge and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability.. Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and profitability.. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, money market funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Troubled financial institutions may significantly increase the interest rates paid to depositors in pursuit of retail deposits when wholesale funding sources are not available to them. Furthermore, the wide acceptance of Internet-based commerce has resulted in a number of alternative payment processing systems and lending platforms in which banks play only minor roles. Customers can now maintain funds in prepaid debit cards or digital currencies, and pay bills and transfer funds directly without the direct assistance of banks. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. For additional information see PART 1 Item 1. Business-THIRD FEDERAL SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION OF CLEVELAND-Competition.. We continually encounter technological change, and may have fewer resources than many of our larger competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better. 44. Table of Contents. serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We also may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers.. Certain aspects of our corporate structure related to dividend payment ability and governance could adversely affect the value of our common stock.. The value of the Company's common stock is significantly affected by our ability to pay dividends to our public stockholders. The Company's ability to pay dividends to our stockholders is subject to the availability of cash at the holding company and, in the event earnings are not sufficient to fund the dividends, eventually, the ability of the Association to make capital distributions to the Company. Moreover, our ability to pay dividends and the amount of such dividends is affected by the ability of Third Federal Savings, MHC, our mutual holding company, to waive the receipt of dividends declared by the Company.. Federal regulations require Third Federal Savings, MHC to notify the FRS of any proposed waiver of its receipt of dividends from the Company. In August 2011, the FRS issued an interim final rule pursuant to the DFA, providing that the FRS \"may not\" object to dividend waivers by grandfathered mutual holding companies, such as Third Federal Savings, MHC, under standards substantially similar to those previously required by the OTS. However, the interim final rule added a requirement that a majority of the mutual holding company's members eligible to vote must approve a dividend waiver by a mutual holding company within 12 months prior to the declaration of the dividend being waived. As part of its rulemaking process, the FRS is reviewing comments on the interim final rule and there can be no assurance that the final rule will not require such a member vote. Third Federal Savings, MHC has received the approval of its members in four separate meetings (in July 2014, August 2015, July 2016 and July 2017) to waive the receipt of dividends for a twelve-month period, and the FRS has \"non-objected\" to Third Federal Savings, MHC's waiver each time  However, future approvals of members and non-objections from the FRS are not assured and if not obtained, the discontinuance of dividend payments would adversely affect the value of our common stock.. Third Federal Savings, MHC, as our majority shareholder, is able to control the outcome of virtually all matters presented to our shareholders for their approval, including any proposal to acquire us. Accordingly, Third Federal Savings, MHC may prevent the sale of control or merger of the Company or its subsidiaries even if such a transaction were favored by a majority of the public shareholders of the Company.. Cyber-attacks, other security breaches or failure or interruption of information systems could adversely affect our operations, net income or reputation.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. We regularly collect, process, transmit and store significant amounts of data and confidential information regarding our customers, employees and others and concerning our own business, operations, plans and strategies. In some cases, this confidential or proprietary information is collected, compiled, processed, transmitted or stored by third parties on our behalf.. Information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial and other transactions and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks and mobile phishing. Mobile phishing, a means for identity thieves to obtain sensitive personal information through fraudulent e-mail, text or voice mail, is an emerging threat targeting the customers of popular financial entities. A failure in or breach of our operational or information security systems, or those of our third-party service providers, as a result of cyber-attacks or information security breaches or due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions could adversely affect our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and/or cause losses.. If this confidential or proprietary information were to be mishandled, misused or lost, we could be exposed to significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage, civil litigation and financial loss.. Although we employ a variety of physical, procedural and technological safeguards to protect this confidential and proprietary information from mishandling, misuse or loss, these safeguards do not provide absolute assurance that mishandling, misuse or loss of the information will not occur, and that if mishandling, misuse or loss of the information did occur, those events will be promptly detected and addressed. Similarly, when confidential or proprietary information is collected, compiled, processed, transmitted or stored by third parties on our behalf, our policies and procedures require that the third party agree to maintain the confidentiality of the information, establish and maintain policies and procedures designed to preserve the. 45. Table of Contents. confidentiality of the information, and permit us to confirm the third party's compliance with the terms of the agreement. As information security risks and cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. We have experienced no known material breaches.. Our operations rely on numerous external vendors.. We rely on numerous external vendors to provide us with products and services necessary to maintain our day-to-day operations. Accordingly, our operations are exposed to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements. The failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements because of changes in the vendor's organizational structure, financial condition, support for existing products and services or strategic focus or for any other reason, could be disruptive to our operations, which in turn could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We also could be adversely affected to the extent such an agreement is not renewed by the third-party vendor or is renewed on terms less favorable to us.. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events could negatively affect the economy in our Florida market area or cause disruptions to our branch office locations, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. A significant portion of our branch operations are conducted in the State of Florida, a geographic region with coastal areas that are susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms. Such weather events can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our branch office locations and negatively affect the local economy in which we operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage caused by future hurricanes or tropical storms will affect our operations or the economy in our market area, but such weather events could result in fewer loan originations and greater delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. These and other negative effects of future hurricanes or tropical storms may adversely affect our business or results of operations.. A new accounting standard may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted a new accounting standard that will be effective for the Company for our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2020. This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL, will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans, and recognize the expected credit losses as allowances for loan losses. This will change the current method of providing allowances for loan losses that are probable, which may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, and to greatly increase the types of data we would need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or expenses incurred to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. If we are required to repurchase mortgage loans that we have previously sold, it would negatively affect our earnings.. We sell mortgage loans in the secondary market under agreements that contain representations and warranties related to, among other things, the origination, characteristics of the mortgage loans and subsequent servicing. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that we have sold in cases of borrower default or breaches of these representations and warranties, and we would be subject to increased risk of disputes and repurchase demands as our volume of loan sales increases. If we are required to repurchase mortgage loans or provide indemnification or other recourse, this could significantly increase our costs and thereby affect our future earnings.. Recently adopted final regulations could restrict our ability to originate and sell loans.. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has issued a rule designed to clarify for lenders how they can avoid legal liability under the Dodd-Frank Act, which holds lenders accountable for ensuring a borrower's ability to repay a mortgage. Loans that meet this \"qualified mortgage\" definition will be presumed to have complied with the new ability-to-repay standard.  Under the rule, a \"qualified mortgage\" loan must not contain certain specified features, including:. • excessive upfront points and fees (those exceeding 3% of the total loan amount, less \"bona fide discount points\" for prime loans);. • interest-only payments;. • negative amortization; and. • terms of longer than 30 years.. 46. Table of Contents. Also, to qualify as a \"qualified mortgage,\" a loan must be made to a borrower whose total monthly debt-to-income ratio does not exceed 43%. Lenders must also verify and document the income and financial resources relied upon to qualify the borrower on the loan and underwrite the loan based on a fully amortizing payment schedule and maximum interest rate during the first five years, taking into account all applicable taxes, insurance and assessments.. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the regulatory agencies to issue regulations that require securitizers of loans to retain \"not less than 5% of the credit risk for any asset that is not a qualified residential mortgage.\" The regulatory agencies have issued a final rule to implement this requirement. The final rule provides that the definition of \"qualified residential mortgage\" includes loans that meet the definition of qualified mortgage issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.. The final rule could have a significant effect on the secondary market for loans and the types of loans we originate, and restrict our ability to make loans. Similarly, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's rule on qualified mortgages could limit our ability or desire to make certain types of loans or loans to certain borrowers, which could limit our growth or profitability.. Any future action by the U.S. Congress lowering the federal corporate income tax rate and/or eliminating the federal corporate alternative minimum tax could result in the need to establish a deferred tax assets valuation allowance and a corresponding charge against earnings.. Deferred tax assets are reported as assets on the Company's balance sheet and represent the decrease in taxes expected to be paid in the future because of future reversals of temporary differences in the bases of assets and liabilities as measured by enacted tax laws and their bases as reported in the financial statements. As of September 30, 2017, the Company's net federal deferred tax asset was $15.5 million. The Company did not have a federal net operating loss carryforward, a federal tax credit carryforward, an alternative minimum tax credit carryforward or a federal alternative minimum tax net operating loss carryforward that impacted the deferred tax asset as of September 30, 2017. The President of the U.S. and the majority political party in the U.S. Congress have announced plans to lower the federal corporate income tax rate from its current level of 35%. If enacted, this reduction could result in a decrease in the value of our deferred tax assets and a reduction to our net income and total equity during the period in which a tax rate change is enacted. The reduction in corporate income tax rate could also reduce our income tax provision expense in future periods.. Our sources of funds are limited because of our holding company structure. The Company is a separate legal entity from its subsidiaries and does not have significant operations of its own. Dividends from the Association provide a significant source of cash for the Company. The availability of dividends from the Association is limited by various statutes and regulations. Under these statutes and regulations, the Association is not permitted to pay dividends on its capital stock to the Company, its sole stockholder, if the dividend would reduce the stockholders' equity of the Association below the amount of the liquidation account established in connection with the mutual-to-stock conversion. Federal savings associations may pay dividends without the approval of its primary federal regulator only if they meet applicable regulatory capital requirements before and after the payment of the dividends and total dividends do not exceed net income to date over the calendar year plus its retained net income over the preceding two years. If in the future, the Company utilizes its available cash and the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not have sufficient funds to pay dividends or fund stock repurchases."
