[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS.. Our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. The risks described below are those we believe are the material risks we face. Any of the risk factors described below, as well as risks not currently known to us, could significantly and adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or access to sources of financing.. We face risks related to the effect of economic uncertainty.. In the event of an economic downturn or slow recovery, our growth, prospects, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Our stores offer arts and crafts supplies and products for the crafter and custom framing for the do-it-yourself home decorator, which are viewed as discretionary items. Pressure on discretionary income brought on by economic downturns and slow recoveries, including housing market declines, rising energy prices and weak labor markets, may cause consumers to reduce the amount they spend on discretionary items. The inherent uncertainty related to predicting economic conditions makes it difficult for us to accurately forecast future demand trends, which could cause us to purchase excess inventories, resulting in increases in our inventory carrying cost, or limit our ability to satisfy customer demand and potentially lose market share.. We face risks related to our substantial indebtedness.. Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk associated with our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our notes and credit facilities. As of February 3, 2018, we had total outstanding debt of $2,742.4 million, of which $2,232.4 million was subject to variable interest rates and $510.0 million was subject to fixed interest rates. As of February 3, 2018, we had $716.6 million of additional borrowing capacity (after giving effect to $63.4 million of letters of credit then outstanding) under our Amended Revolving Credit Facility. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaking it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, and any failure to comply with the obligations under our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions;. 9. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures, selling and marketing efforts, product development, future business opportunities and other purposes;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities, which consist of the Amended Revolving Credit Facility and the Amended Term Loan Credit Facility (each, as defined below), are at variable rates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non - strategic divestitures;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our ability to plan for, or adjust to, changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be less highly leveraged.. The occurrence of any one of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject, in the case of MSI and Michaels Funding, Inc. (\"Holdings\") and their subsidiaries, to the restrictions contained in our Senior Secured Credit Facilities and the indenture governing our notes. In addition, our Senior Secured Credit Facilities and indenture governing our notes do not restrict us from creating new holding companies that may be able to incur indebtedness without regard to the restrictions set forth in our Senior Secured Credit Facilities and indenture governing our notes. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify.. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business.. Our Senior Secured Credit Facilities and the indenture governing our notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit the ability of the relevant borrowers, issuers, guarantors and their restricted subsidiaries to, among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur or guarantee additional debt;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpay dividends or distributions on their capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire their capital stock or indebtedness;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tissue stock of subsidiaries;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake certain investments, loans, advances and acquisitions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcreate liens on our assets to secure debt;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenter into transactions with affiliates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmerge or consolidate with another company; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsell or otherwise transfer assets.. In addition, under the Amended Term Loan Credit Facility, MSI is required to meet specified financial ratios in order to undertake certain actions, and under our Amended Revolving Credit Facility, MSI is required to meet specified financial ratios in order to undertake certain actions, and under certain circumstances, MSI may be required to maintain a specified fixed charge coverage ratio. Our ability to meet those tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you we will meet them. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities, which could also lead to an event of default under our notes if any of the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. 10. Table of Contents. were accelerated. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. Holdings, MSI and certain of MSI's subsidiaries have pledged substantially all of their assets, including the capital stock of MSI and certain of its subsidiaries, as collateral under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities. If the indebtedness under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities or our notes were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full.. Changes in customer demand could materially adversely affect our sales, results of operations and cash flow.. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing customer demands and preferences for products and supplies used in creative activities. If we misjudge the market, we may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant inventory markdowns, or experience shortages of key items, either of which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and cash flow. In addition, adverse weather conditions, economic instability and consumer confidence volatility could have material adverse impacts on our sales and operating results.. Competition, including Internet-based competition, could negatively impact our business.. The retail arts and crafts industry, including custom framing, is competitive, which could result in pressure to reduce prices and losses in our market share. We must remain competitive in the areas of quality, price, breadth of selection, customer service and convenience to retain and grow our market share. We compete with mass merchants, which dedicate a portion of their selling space to a limited selection of craft supplies and seasonal and holiday merchandise, along with national and regional chains and local merchants. We also compete with specialty retailers, which include Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc., A.C. Moore Arts & Crafts, Inc. and Jo - Ann Stores, Inc. Some of our competitors, particularly the mass merchants, are larger and have greater financial resources than we do. We also face competition from Internet - based retailers, such as Amazon.com, Inc., in addition to traditional store - based retailers, who may be larger, more experienced and able to offer products we cannot. This could result in increased price competition since our customers could more readily search and compare non - private brand products. Furthermore, we ultimately compete with alternative sources of entertainment and leisure for our customers.. A weak fourth quarter would materially adversely affect our result of operations.. Our business is highly seasonal. Our inventories and short-term borrowings may grow in the third fiscal quarter as we prepare for our peak selling season in the third and fourth fiscal quarters. Our most important quarter in terms of sales, profitability and cash flow historically has been the fourth fiscal quarter. If for any reason our fourth fiscal quarter results were substantially below expectations, our operating results for the full year would be materially adversely affected, and we could have substantial excess inventory, especially in seasonal merchandise that is difficult to liquidate.. Unexpected or unfavorable consumer responses to our promotional or merchandising programs could materially adversely affect our sales, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.. Brand recognition, quality and price have a significant influence on consumers' choices among competing products and brands. Advertising, promotion, merchandising and the cadence of new product introductions also have a significant impact on consumers' buying decisions. If we misjudge consumer responses to our existing or future promotional activities, this could have a material adverse impact on our sales, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.. We believe improvements in our merchandise offering help drive sales at our stores. We could be materially adversely affected by poor execution of changes to our merchandise offering or by unexpected consumer responses to changes in our merchandise offering.. 11. Table of Contents. Our results may be adversely affected by serious disruptions or catastrophic events, including geo-political events and weather.. Unforeseen public health issues, such as pandemics and epidemics, and geo - political events, such as civil unrest in a country in which our suppliers are located or terrorist or military activities disrupting transportation, communication or utility systems, as well as natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes and other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the U.S. or abroad, particularly during peak seasonal periods, could disrupt our operations or the operations of one or more of our vendors, or could severely damage or destroy one or more of our stores or distribution facilities located in the affected areas. For example, day - to - day operations, particularly our ability to receive products from our vendors or transport products to our stores, could be adversely affected, or we could be required to close stores or distribution centers in the affected areas or in areas served by the affected distribution center. These factors could also cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. and global financial markets and economy. Such occurrences could significantly impact our operating results and financial performance. For example, during fiscal 2017, more than 100 of our stores were impacted by weather related to Hurricane Harvey and Irma, resulting in closures and an estimated $10 million in lost sales.. We have experienced a data breach in the past and any future failure to adequately maintain security and prevent unauthorized access to electronic and other confidential information could result in an additional data breach which could materially adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results.. The protection of our customer, team members and Company data is critically important to us. Our customers and team members have a high expectation that we will adequately safeguard and protect their sensitive personal information. We have become increasingly centralized and dependent upon automated information technology processes. In addition, a large portion of our business operations is conducted electronically, increasing the risk of attack or interception that could cause loss or misuse of data, system failures or disruption of operations. This risk has increased with the launch of our e - commerce platform in fiscal 2014. Improper activities by third parties, exploitation of encryption technology, new data - hacking tools and discoveries and other events or developments may result in a future compromise or breach of our networks, payment card terminals or other payment systems. In particular, the techniques used by criminals to obtain unauthorized access to sensitive data change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target; accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. Any failure to maintain the security of our customers' sensitive information, or data belonging to ourselves or our suppliers, could put us at a competitive disadvantage, result in deterioration of our customers' confidence in us, and subject us to potential litigation, liability, fines and penalties, resulting in a possible material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. While we maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses and would not remedy damage to our reputation. There can be no assurance that we will not suffer a criminal attack in the future, that unauthorized parties will not gain access to personal information, or that any such incident will be discovered in a timely manner.. Our reliance on foreign suppliers increases our risk of obtaining adequate, timely and cost-effective product supplies.. To a significant extent, we rely on foreign manufacturers for our merchandise, particularly manufacturers located in China. In addition, many of our domestic suppliers purchase a portion of their products from foreign sources. This reliance increases the risk that we will not have adequate and timely supplies of various products due to local political, economic, social or environmental conditions (including acts of terrorism, the outbreak of war or the occurrence of a natural disaster), transportation delays (including dock strikes and other work stoppages), restrictive actions by foreign governments, or changes in U.S. laws and regulations affecting imports or domestic distribution. Reliance on foreign manufacturers also increases our exposure to trade infringement claims and reduces our ability to return product for various reasons.. We are at a risk for higher costs associated with goods manufactured in China. Significant increases in wages or wage taxes paid by contract facilities may increase the cost of goods manufactured, which could have a material adverse effect on our profit margins and profitability.. All of our products manufactured overseas and imported into the U.S. are subject to duties collected by the U.S. Customs Service. We may be subjected to additional duties or tariffs, significant monetary penalties, the seizure and forfeiture of the products we are attempting to import, or the loss of import privileges if we or our suppliers are found to be in violation of U.S. laws and regulations applicable to the importation of our products.. 12. Table of Contents. Our growth depends on our ability to increase comparable store sales and to open new stores.. We anticipate our sales growth will primarily come from increasing comparable store sales. Profitability growth would then depend significantly on our ability to improve gross margin. Another business strategy is to continue to expand our base of retail stores. We may be unable to continue our store growth strategy if we cannot identify suitable sites for additional stores, negotiate acceptable leases, access sufficient capital to support store growth, or hire and train a sufficient number of qualified team members. If we are unable to accomplish these strategies, our ability to increase our sales, profitability and cash flow could be impaired.. Damage to the reputation of the Michaels brand or our private and exclusive brands could adversely affect our sales.. We believe the Michaels brand name and many of our private and exclusive brand names are powerful sales and marketing tools and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them. To be successful in the future, we must continue to preserve, grow and utilize the value of Michaels' reputation. Reputational value is based in large part on perceptions of subjective qualities, and even isolated incidents may erode trust and confidence. In addition, we develop and promote private and exclusive brands, which we believe have generated national recognition. Our Michaels private brands totaled approximately 58% of net sales in fiscal 2017. Damage to the reputations (whether or not justified) of our brand names could arise from product failures, data privacy or security incidents, litigation or various forms of adverse publicity (including adverse publicity generated as a result of a vendor's or a supplier's failure to comply with general social accountability practices), especially in social media outlets, and may generate negative customer sentiment, potentially resulting in a reduction in our sales and earnings.. Suppliers from whom our products are sourced may fail us and transitioning to other qualified vendors could materially adversely affect our revenue and profit growth.. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors. Global sourcing has become an increasingly important part of our business, as we have undertaken efforts to increase the amount of product we source directly from overseas manufacturers. Our ability to find qualified vendors who meet our standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced from outside the U.S. Any issues related to transitioning vendors could adversely affect our revenue and gross profit.. Many of our suppliers are small firms that produce a limited number of items. Given their limited resources, these firms are susceptible to cash flow issues, access to capital, production difficulties, quality control issues and problems in delivering agreed - upon quantities on schedule. We may not be able, if necessary, to return products to these suppliers and obtain refunds of our purchase price or obtain reimbursement or indemnification from them if their products prove defective. These suppliers may also be unable to withstand a downturn in economic conditions. Significant failures on the part of our key suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. In addition, many of these suppliers require extensive advance notice of our requirements to supply products in the quantities we desire. This long lead time may limit our ability to respond timely to shifts in demand.. Changes in regulations or enforcement, or our failure to comply with existing or future regulations, may adversely impact our business.. We are subject to federal, state and local regulations with respect to our operations in the U.S. We are further subject to federal, provincial and local regulations internationally, including in Canada and China, each of which are distinct from those in the U.S., and may be subject to greater international regulation as our business expands. There are a number of legislative and regulatory initiatives that could adversely impact our business if they are enacted or enforced. Those initiatives include wage or workforce issues (such as minimum - wage requirements, overtime and other working conditions and citizenship requirements), collective bargaining matters, environmental regulation, price and promotion regulation, trade regulations and others.. Proposed changes in tax regulations may also change our effective tax rate as our business is subject to a combination of applicable tax rates in the various countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") was signed into law. The Tax Act changes U.S. tax law and includes numerous provisions that affect our business, including reducing our corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018. The Tax Act also introduces changes that impact business-related exclusions, deductions and. 13. Table of Contents. credits. We are continuing to evaluate the impact of the Tax Act on our business and results of operations. Many of the income tax effects of the Tax Act that we have accounted for in fiscal 2017 are based on reasonable estimates and are provisional. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. The U.S. Treasury is expected to issue additional regulations and guidance in connection with the Tax Act, which may alter interpretations of its provisions and change our preliminary analysis and conclusions. Any changes in regulations or additional guidance could adversely affect our provision for income taxes.. New accounting pronouncements and interpretations of existing accounting rules and practices have occurred and may occur in the future. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results of operations. Failure to comply with legal requirements could result in, among other things, increased litigation risk that could affect us adversely by subjecting us to significant monetary damages and other remedies or by increasing our litigation expenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. We are currently subject to various class action lawsuits alleging violations of wage and workforce laws and similar matters (see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements). If such issues become more expensive to address, or if new issues arise, they could increase our expenses, generate negative publicity, or otherwise adversely affect us.. Significant increases in inflation or commodity prices, such as petroleum, natural gas, electricity, steel, wood and paper, may adversely affect our costs, including cost of merchandise.. Significant future increases in commodity prices or inflation could adversely affect our costs, including cost of merchandise and distribution costs. Furthermore, the transportation industry may experience a shortage or reduction of capacity, which could be exacerbated by higher fuel prices. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to secure, or are able to secure only at significantly higher costs, adequate transportation resources to fulfill our receipt of goods or delivery schedules to the stores.. We may be subject to information technology system failures or network disruptions, or our information systems may prove inadequate, resulting in damage to our reputation, business operations and financial condition.. We depend on our management information systems for many aspects of our business, including our perpetual inventory, automated replenishment and weighted-average cost stock ledger systems which are necessary to properly forecast, manage, analyze and record our inventory. The Company may be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions. These may be caused by natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, denial - of - service attacks, computer viruses, physical or electronic break - ins, or similar events or disruptions. System redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and the Company's disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Such failures or disruptions could prevent access to our online services and preclude store transactions. System failures and disruptions could also impede the manufacturing and shipping of products, transactions processing and financial reporting. Additionally, we may be materially adversely affected if we are unable to improve, upgrade, maintain, and expand our systems.. Improvements to our supply chain may not be fully successful.. An important part of our efforts to achieve efficiencies, cost reductions and sales and cash flow growth is the identification and implementation of improvements to our supply chain, including merchandise ordering, transportation, direct sourcing initiatives and receipt processing. We continue to implement enhancements to our distribution systems and processes, which are designed to improve efficiency throughout the supply chain and at our stores. If we are unable to successfully implement significant changes, this could disrupt our supply chain, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. We are exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. and Canadian dollar, which is the functional currency of our Canadian subsidiaries.. Our Canadian operating subsidiaries purchase inventory in U.S. dollars, which is sold in Canadian dollars and exposes us to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. In addition, our customers at border locations can be sensitive to cross - border price differences. Substantial foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our business. In fiscal 2017, exchange rates had a positive impact on our consolidated operating results due to a 6% increase in the Canadian exchange rate.. 14. Table of Contents. We are dependent upon the services of our senior management team.. We are dependent on the services, abilities and experience of our executive officers, including Carl S. Rubin, our Chief Executive Officer, and Denise A. Paulonis, our Chief Financial Officer. The permanent loss of the services of either of these senior executives and any change in the composition of our senior management team could have a negative impact on our ability to execute on our business and operating strategies.. Any difficulty executing or integrating an acquisition, a business combination or a major business initiative could adversely affect our business or results of operations.. Any difficulty in executing or integrating an acquisition, a business combination or a major business initiative may result in our inability to achieve anticipated benefits from these transactions in the time frame that we anticipate, or at all, which could adversely affect our business or results of operations. Such transactions may also disrupt the operation of our current activities and divert management's attention from other business matters. In addition, the Company's current credit agreements place certain limited constraints on our ability to make an acquisition or enter into a business combination, and future borrowing agreements could place tighter constraints on such actions.. Our marketing programs, e-commerce initiatives and use of consumer information are governed by an evolving set of laws and enforcement trends and unfavorable changes in those laws or trends, or our failure to comply with existing or future laws, could substantially harm our business and results of operations.. We collect, maintain and use data provided to us through our online activities and other customer interactions in our business. Our current and future marketing programs depend on our ability to collect, maintain and use this information, and our ability to do so is subject to certain contractual restrictions in third - party contracts as well as evolving international, federal and state laws and enforcement trends. We strive to comply with all applicable laws and other legal obligations relating to privacy, data protection and consumer protection, including those relating to the use of data for marketing purposes. It is possible, however, that these requirements may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another, may conflict with other rules or may conflict with our practices. If so, we may suffer damage to our reputation and be subject to proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others. Any such proceeding or action could hurt our reputation, force us to spend significant amounts to defend our practices, distract our management, increase our costs of doing business and result in monetary liability.. In addition, as data privacy and marketing laws change, we may incur additional costs to ensure we remain in compliance with such laws. If applicable data privacy and marketing laws become more restrictive at the federal or state level, our compliance costs may increase, our ability to effectively engage customers via personalized marketing may decrease, our investment in our e - commerce platform may not be fully realized, our opportunities for growth may be curtailed by our compliance capabilities or reputational harm and our potential liability for security breaches may increase.. Product recalls and/or product liability, as well as changes in product safety and other consumer protection laws, may adversely impact our operations, merchandise offerings, reputation, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.. We are subject to regulations by a variety of federal, state and international regulatory authorities, including the Consumer Product Safety Commission. In fiscal 2017, we purchased merchandise from approximately 650 vendors. Since a majority of our merchandise is manufactured in foreign countries, one or more of our vendors may not adhere to product safety requirements or our quality control standards, and we may not identify the deficiency before merchandise ships to our stores. Any issues of product safety, including but not limited to those manufactured in foreign countries, could cause us to recall some of those products. If our vendors fail to manufacture or import merchandise that adheres to our quality control standards, our reputation and brands could be damaged, potentially leading to increases in customer litigation against us. Furthermore, to the extent we are unable to replace any recalled products, we may have to reduce our merchandise offerings, resulting in a decrease in sales, especially if a recall occurs near or during a seasonal period. If our vendors are unable or unwilling to recall products failing to meet our quality standards, we may be required to recall those products at a substantial cost to us. Moreover, changes in product safety or other consumer protection laws could lead to increased costs to us for certain merchandise, or additional labor costs associated with readying merchandise for sale. Long lead times on merchandise ordering cycles increase the difficulty for us to plan and prepare for potential changes to applicable laws. The Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 imposes significant requirements on manufacturing, importing, testing and labeling requirements for our products. In the event that we are unable to timely. 15. Table of Contents. comply with regulatory changes or regulators do not believe we are complying with current regulations applicable to us, significant fines or penalties could result and could adversely affect our reputation, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.. Our total assets include intangible assets, goodwill and substantial amounts of property and equipment. Changes in estimates or projections used to assess the fair value of these assets, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain store locations, may cause us to incur impairment charges that could adversely affect our results of operation.. Our total assets include intangible assets, goodwill and substantial amounts of property and equipment. We make certain estimates and projections in connection with impairment analyses for these long lived assets, in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification (\"ASC\") 360, \"Property, Plant and Equipment\", and ASC 350, \"Intangibles - Goodwill and Other\". We also review the carrying value of these assets for impairment on an annual basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. We will record an impairment loss when the carrying value of the underlying asset, asset group or reporting unit exceeds its fair value. These calculations require us to make a number of estimates and projections of future results. If these estimates or projections change, we may be required to record additional impairment charges on certain of these assets. If these impairment charges are significant, our results of operations would be adversely affected.. Changes in newspaper subscription rates may result in reduced exposure to our circular advertisements.. A substantial portion of our promotional activities utilize circular advertisements in local newspapers. A continued decline in consumer subscriptions of these newspapers could reduce the frequency with which consumers receive our circular advertisements, thereby negatively affecting sales, results of operations and cash flow.. Disruptions in the capital markets could increase our costs of doing business.. Any disruption in the capital markets could make it difficult for us to raise additional capital when needed, or to eventually refinance our existing indebtedness on acceptable terms or at all. Similarly, if our suppliers face challenges in obtaining credit when needed, or otherwise face difficult business conditions, they may become unable to offer us the merchandise we use in our business thereby causing reductions in our revenues, or they may demand more favorable payment terms, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Our real estate leases generally obligate us for long periods, which subject us to various financial risks.. We lease virtually all of our store, distribution center and administrative locations, generally for long terms. While we have the right to terminate some of our leases under specified conditions by making specified payments, we may not be able to terminate a particular lease if or when we would like to do so. If we decide to close stores, we are generally required to continue paying rent and operating expenses for the balance of the lease term, or pay to exercise rights to terminate, and the performance of any of these obligations may be expensive. When we assign or sublease vacated locations, we may remain liable on the lease obligations if the assignee or sublessee does not perform. In addition, when leases for the stores in our ongoing operations expire, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, which could cause us to close stores. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks associated with leasing real estate, which can have a material adverse effect on our results.. We have co-sourced certain of our information technology, accounts payable, payroll, accounting and human resources functions and may co-source other administrative functions, which makes us more dependent upon third parties.. We place significant reliance on third - party providers for the co - sourcing of certain of our information technology (\"IT\"), accounts payable, payroll, accounting and human resources functions. This co - sourcing initiative is a component of our ongoing strategy to increase efficiencies, increase our IT capabilities, manage our costs and seek additional cost savings. These functions are generally performed in offshore locations. As a result, we rely on third parties to ensure that certain functional needs are sufficiently met. This reliance subjects us to risks arising from the loss of control over these processes, changes in pricing that may affect our operating results, and potentially, termination of provision of these services by our suppliers. If our service providers fail to perform, we may have difficulty arranging for an alternate supplier or rebuilding our own internal resources, and we could incur significant costs, all of which may have a significant adverse effect on our business. We may co - source other administrative functions in the future, which would further increase our. 16. Table of Contents. reliance on third parties. Further, the use of offshore service providers may expose us to risks related to local political, economic, social or environmental conditions (including acts of terrorism, the outbreak of war, or the occurrence of natural disaster), restrictive actions by foreign governments or changes in U.S. laws and regulations.. Failure to attract and retain quality sales, distribution center and other team members in appropriate numbers as well as experienced buying and management personnel could adversely affect our performance.. Our performance depends on recruiting, developing, training and retaining quality sales, distribution center and other team members in large numbers as well as experienced buying and management personnel. Many of our store level team members are in entry level or part - time positions with historically high rates of turnover. Our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling labor costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and governmental labor and employment requirements. In the event of increasing wage rates, if we fail to increase our wages competitively, the quality of our workforce could decline, causing our customer service to suffer, while increasing our wages could cause our earnings to decrease. The market for retail management is highly competitive and, similar to other retailers, we face challenges in securing sufficient management talent. If we do not continue to attract, train and retain quality team members, our performance could be adversely affected.. The Sponsors continue to have significant influence over us and their interest may conflict with yours and those of our Company.. Although we are no longer a \"controlled company\", the Sponsors continue to beneficially own approximately 40% of our outstanding common stock as of February 3, 2018. For so long as the Sponsors continue to hold a significant portion of our outstanding common stock, the Sponsors may continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions.. Because our executive officers hold or may hold restricted shares or option awards that will vest upon a change of control, these officers may have interests in us that conflict with yours.. Our executive officers hold or may hold restricted shares and options to purchase shares that would automatically vest upon a change of control. As a result, these officers may view certain change of control transactions more favorably than an investor due to the vesting opportunities available to them and, as a result, may have an economic incentive to support a transaction that may not be viewed as favorable by other stockholders.. Our holding company structure makes us, and certain of our direct and indirect subsidiaries, dependent on the operations of our, and their, subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations.. We, and certain of our direct and indirect subsidiaries, have no significant assets other than the interest in direct and indirect subsidiaries, including MSI. As a result, we, and certain of our direct and indirect subsidiaries, rely exclusively upon payments, dividends and distributions from direct and indirect subsidiaries' cash flows. Our ability to pay dividends, if any are declared, to our shareholders is dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to generate sufficient net income and cash flows to pay upstream dividends and make loans or loan repayments.. Our stock price could be extremely volatile and may decline and, as a result, you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for them.. Since listing our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Select Market in June 2014 in connection with our IPO, the price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $14.51 on August 1, 2014 to a high of $31.37 on June 6, 2016. In addition, the stock market in general has been highly volatile. As a result, the market price of our common stock is likely to be similarly volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease, which could be substantial, in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects, and could lose part or all of their investment. The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those described elsewhere in this filing and others such as:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvariations in our operating performance and the performance of our competitors;. 17. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpublication of research reports by securities analysts about us or our competitors or our industry;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour failure or the failure of our competitors to meet analysts' projections or guidance that we or our competitors may give to the market;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditions and departures of key personnel;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tstrategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin - offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe passage of legislation or other regulatory developments affecting us or our industry;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tspeculation in the press or investment community;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadverse publicity;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in accounting principles;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tterrorist acts, acts of war or periods of widespread civil unrest;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnatural disasters and other calamities; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in general market and economic conditions.. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation.. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may deter takeover efforts that may be beneficial to stockholder value.. Delaware law and provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it harder for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include limitations on our stockholders' ability to act by written consent. In addition, our Board has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval that could be used to dilute a potential hostile acquirer. Our certificate of incorporation imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock other than the Sponsors, who own approximately 40% of our outstanding common stock as of February 3, 2018. As a result, you may lose your ability to sell your stock for a price in excess of the prevailing market price due to these protective measures and efforts by stockholders to change the direction or management of the Company may be unsuccessful.. Our certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, subject to limited exceptions, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer or other employee to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law or our certificate of incorporation or the bylaws or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions of our certificate of incorporation described above. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds. 18. Table of Contents. favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Because we have no current plans to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than you paid.. We plan to retain future earnings, if any, for future operation, expansion and debt repayment and have no current plans to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our Board and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors that our Board may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends may be limited by covenants of any existing and future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including our Senior Secured Credit Facilities. As a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless you sell our common stock for a price greater than you paid."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
