[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. The occurrence of any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements and estimates that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in any forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks and uncertainties described below.. Risks Related to Our Business. There can be no assurance that our contracts will survive until the end of their stated terms, or that upon their expiration will be renewed or extended on satisfactory terms, if at all. Disruptions to, the early expiration of or the failure to renew our contracts could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our NET Services contracts, and certain WD Services contracts, are subject to frequent renewal. For example, many of the state Medicaid contracts held by NET Services, which represented 55.9% of NET Services revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017, have terms ranging from three to five years and are typically subject to a competitive bidding process near the end of the term. NET Services also contracts with MCOs, which represented 44.1% of NET Services revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017. MCO contracts typically continue until terminated by either party upon reasonable notice (as determined in accordance with the contract). We cannot anticipate if, when or to what extent we will be successful in renewing our state government contracts or retaining our MCO contracts. During 2017, we experienced a decline in operating income as a percentage of revenue due to the nonrenewal of certain state contracts. In addition, with respect to many of our contracts, the payer may terminate the contract without cause, at will and without penalty to the payer, either immediately or upon the expiration of a short notice period in the event that, among other reasons, government appropriations supporting the programs serviced by the contract are reduced or eliminated or the payer deems our performance under the contract to be unsatisfactory.. We cannot anticipate if, when or to what extent a payer might terminate its contract with us prior to its expiration, or fail to renew or extend a contract with us. If we are unable to retain or renew our contracts, or replace lost contracts, on satisfactory terms our financial conditions and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. While we pursue new contract awards and also undertake efficiency measures, there can be no assurance that such measures will fully offset the impact of contracts that are not renewed or are cancelled on our operating income and results of operations.. We obtain a significant portion of our business through responses to government requests for proposals and we may not be awarded contracts through this process in the future, or contracts we are awarded may not be profitable.. We obtain, and will continue to seek to obtain, a significant portion of our business from national, state, and local government entities. To obtain business from government entities, we are often required to respond to requests for proposals (\"RFPs\"). To propose effectively, we must accurately estimate our cost structure for servicing a proposed contract, the time required to establish operations and the terms of the proposals submitted by competitors. We must also assemble and submit a large volume of information within rigid and often short timetables. Our ability to respond successfully to RFPs will greatly impact our business. If we misinterpret bid requirements as to performance criteria or do not accurately estimate performance costs in a binding bid for an RFP, we will seek to correct such mistakes in the final contract. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to modify the proposed contract and we may be required to perform under a contract that is not profitable.. WD Services' ability to win contracts to administer and manage programs traditionally administered by government employees is also dependent on the impact of government unions. Many WD Services government employees belong to labor unions with considerable financial resources and lobbying networks. Union opposition could result in our losing government contracts, being precluded from providing services under government contracts, or maintaining or renewing existing contracts. If we could not renew certain contracts or obtain new contracts due to opposition political actions, it could have a material adverse impact on our operating results.. If we fail to satisfy our contractual obligations, we could be liable for damages and financial penalties, which may place existing pledged performance and payment bonds at risk as well as harm our ability to keep our existing contracts or obtain new contracts and future bonds.. Our failure to comply with our contractual obligations could, in addition to providing grounds for immediate termination of the contract for cause, negatively impact our financial performance and damage our reputation, which, in turn, could have a. 16. material adverse effect on our ability to maintain current contracts or obtain new contracts. The termination of a contract for cause could, for instance, subject us to liabilities for excess costs incurred by a payer in obtaining similar services from another source. In addition, our contracts require us to indemnify payers for our failure to meet standards of care, and some of them contain liquidated damages provisions and financial penalties that we must pay if we breach these contracts.. Our failure to meet contractual obligations could also result in substantial actual and consequential financial damages. For example, on January 25, 2018, the MOJ released a report on reoffending statistics for certain offenders who entered probation services during the period October 2015 to March 2016. The report provides statistics for all providers of probation services, including our subsidiary RRP, which is in our WD Services segment. This information is the second data set that is utilized to determine performance payments under the various providers' transforming rehabilitation contracts with the MOJ, as the actual rates of recidivism are compared to benchmark rates established by the MOJ. Performance payments and penalties are linked to two separate measures of recidivism - the binary measure and the frequency measure. The binary measure defines the percentage of offenders within a cohort, formed quarterly, who reoffend in the following 12 months. The frequency measure defines the average number of offenses committed by reoffenders within the same 12-month measurement period. The performance for the frequency measure for most providers has been below the benchmarks established by the MOJ. As a result, RRP could be required to make payments to the MOJ and the amounts of such payments could be material. The amount of potential payments to the MOJ, if any, under RRP's contracts with the MOJ cannot be estimated at this time, as the MOJ is reviewing the data to understand the underlying reasons for the increase in certain rates of recidivism and other factors that could impact the contractual measure.. Any acquisition or integration that we undertake could disrupt our business, not generate anticipated results, dilute stockholder value or have a material adverse impact on our operating results.. We endeavor to ensure our acquisition strategy and alignment of resources serves to enhance shareholder value, which could result in changes to our strategy or to the way in which we deploy resources across Providence. We have made, and anticipate that we will continue to make, acquisitions. The Company typically incurs costs related to acquisitions and integrations, including third-party costs, whether or not the acquisition or integration is completed, which can have a material adverse impact on our operating results. The success of an acquisition depends in part on our ability to integrate an acquired company into our business operations. Integration of any acquired companies will place significant demands on our management, systems, internal controls and financial and physical resources. This could require us to incur significant expense for, among other things, hiring additional qualified personnel, retaining professionals to assist in developing the appropriate control systems and expanding our information technology infrastructure. The nature of our business is such that qualified management personnel can be difficult to find. Our inability to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. There can be no assurance that the companies acquired will generate income or incur expenses at the historical or projected levels on which we based our acquisition decisions, that we will be able to maintain or renew the acquired companies' contracts, that we will be able to realize operating and economic efficiencies upon integration of acquired companies or that the acquisitions will not adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. We continually review opportunities to acquire other businesses that would complement our current services, expand our markets or otherwise offer prospects for growth. In connection with our acquisition strategy, we could issue stock that would dilute existing stockholders' percentage ownership, or we could incur or assume substantial debt or contingent liabilities. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, the following:. •  challenges and unanticipated costs assimilating the acquired operations;. •  known and unknown legal or financial liabilities associated with an acquisition;. •  diversion of management's attention from our core businesses;. •  adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers;. •  entering markets in which we have limited or no experience;. •  potential loss of key employees of purchased organizations;. •  incurrence of excessive leverage in financing an acquisition;. •  failure to maintain and renew contracts and other revenue streams of the acquired business;. •  costs associated with litigation or other claims arising in connection with the acquired company;. •  unanticipated operating, accounting or management difficulties in connection with an acquisition; and. •  dilution to our earnings per share.. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming problems encountered in connection with any acquisition or integration and our inability to do so could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail. 17. to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments, incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our business generally.. We may be unable to realize the benefits of any strategic initiatives that are adopted by the Company.. From time to time we may launch strategic initiatives in order to enhance shareholder value. For example, in 2017, NET Services pursued a strategic initiative to enhance member satisfaction and drive greater operational efficiencies. The implementation of the initiative is expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2018. Also in 2017, in order to build upon its leadership position in the UK employment services industry, enhance client satisfaction and drive greater operational efficiencies, WD Services substantially completed the Ingeus Futures program. In addition, we are actively evaluating the optimal industry sectors, such as the non-emergency medical transportation industry and others in which businesses complementary to our NET Services business operate, around which to focus our go-forward merger and acquisition activity, in an attempt to direct our capital towards those areas most likely to drive long-term value creation and generate the highest levels of return for our shareholders. The outcome of this active evaluation may impact the extent and manner in which we deploy resources across Providence, including strategic and administrative resources between Corporate and Other and our operating segments. There can be no assurance as to whether any strategic initiatives will be adopted as a result of this evaluation, and the outcome of any current or future strategic initiatives is uncertain.. Our investments in any joint ventures and unconsolidated entities could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on our joint venture partners' financial condition, any disputes that may arise between us and our joint venture partners and our exposure to potential losses from the actions of our joint venture partners.. We currently hold a noncontrolling interest in Matrix, which constitutes 24.0% of our consolidated assets. We do not have unilateral power to direct the activities that most significantly impact such business' economic performance. Our future growth may depend, in part, on future similar arrangements, any of which could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. These arrangements involve risks not present with respect to our wholly-owned subsidiaries, which may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations or make the arrangements less successful than anticipated, including the following:. • we may be unable to take actions that we believe are appropriate but are opposed by our joint venture partners under arrangements that require us to cede or share decision-making authority over major decisions affecting the ownership or operation of the joint venture and any property owned by the joint venture, such as the sale or financing of the business or the making of additional capital contributions for the benefit of the business;. • our joint venture partners may take actions that we oppose;. • we may be unable to sell or transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party if we fail to obtain the prior consent of our joint venture partners;. • our joint venture partners may become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, which could adversely impact the joint venture or increase our financial commitment to the joint venture;. • our joint venture partners may have business interests or goals with respect to a business that conflict with our business interests and goals, including with respect to the timing, terms and strategies for investment, which could increase the likelihood of disputes regarding the ownership, management or disposition of the business;. • disagreements with our joint venture partners could result in litigation or arbitration that increases our expenses, distracts our officers and directors, and disrupts the day-to-day operations of the business, including the delay of important decisions until the dispute is resolved; and. • we may suffer losses as a result of actions taken by our joint venture partners with respect to our joint venture investments.. We derive a significant amount of our revenues from a few payers, which puts our financial condition and results of operations at risk. Any changes in the funding, financial viability or our relationships with these payers could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. We generate a significant amount of the revenues in our segments from a few payers under a small number of contracts. For example, for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we generated 46.7%, 47.9% and 54.6%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue from ten payers. Additionally, five payers related to NET Services represented, in the aggregate, 36.1%, 35.6% and 39.2%, respectively, of NET Services revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015. A single payer related to WD Services represented 27.1%, 28.9% and 40.0% of our WD Services revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Additionally, a single payer related to Matrix represented 30.9%, 27.8% and 31.1% of Matrix revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The loss of, reduction in amounts generated by, or changes in methods or regulations governing payments for our services under these contracts could have a material adverse impact on our. 18. revenue and results of operations. In addition, any consolidation of any of our private payers could increase the impact that any such risks would have on our revenue and results of operations.. If we fail to estimate accurately the cost of performing certain contracts, we may experience reduced or negative margins.. During 2017, 2016 and 2015, 77.9%, 78.3% and 83.6% of our NET Services revenue, respectively, was generated under capitated contracts with the remainder generated through FFS and flat fee contracts. WD Services also provides services under FFS and flat fee contracts. Under most of NET Services' capitated contracts, we assume the responsibility of managing the needs of a specific geographic population by contracting out transportation services to local transportation companies on a per ride or per mile basis. We use \"pricing models\" to determine applicable contract rates, which take into account factors such as estimated utilization, state specific data, previous experience in the state or with similar services, the medically covered programs outlined in the contract, identified populations to be serviced, estimated volume, estimated transportation provider rates and availability of mass transit. The amount of the fixed per-member, monthly fee is determined in the bidding process, but is predicated on actual historical transportation data for the subject geographic region as provided by the payer, actuarial work performed in-house as well as by third party actuarial firms and actuarial analysis provided by the payer. If the utilization of our services is more than we estimated, the contract may be less profitable than anticipated, or may not be profitable at all. Under our FFS contracts, we receive fees based on our interactions with government-sponsored clients. To earn a profit on these contracts, we must accurately estimate costs incurred in providing services. Our risk relating to these contracts is that our client population is not large enough to cover our fixed costs, such as rent and overhead. Our FFS contracts are not reimbursed on a cost basis and therefore, if we fail to estimate our costs accurately, we may experience reduced margins or losses on these contracts. Revenue under certain contracts may be adjusted prospectively if client volumes are below expectations. If the Company is unable to adjust its costs accordingly, our profitability may be negatively impacted. In addition, certain contracts with state Medicaid agencies are renewable at the state's option without an adjustment to pricing terms. If such renewed contracts require us to incur higher costs, including inflation or regulatory changes, than originally anticipated, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. In WD Services, we often provide services to a client based on a unit price for delivery of a service or achievement of a defined outcome.  If we fail to estimate costs accurately, we may have minimal ability to change the unit price to ensure profitability. While we may be able to alter our cost structure to reflect lower than anticipated volumes and other changes in service needs, there are certain fixed costs which are difficult to alter while still ensuring we can meet our contractual obligations.  Further, many contracts require us to undertake significant onboarding projects, including making redundancies and changes to properties and IT.  If we fail to anticipate the cost of these change programs, we may be unable to recover startup costs throughout the life of the contract. During the fourth quarter of 2016, WD Services recorded asset impairment charges of $19.6 million, which related, in part, to lower revenue and unanticipated costs for a recent contract. If WD Services continues to experience lower than expected volumes and unfavorable service mix shifts, it could result in additional impairment charges. For more information on the risks related to impairment of goodwill, see \"Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Business - Our reported financial results could suffer if there is an impairment of long-lived assets.\". We may incur costs before receiving related revenues, which could impact our liquidity.. When we are awarded a contract to provide services, we may incur expenses before we receive any contract payments. These expenses include leasing office space, purchasing office equipment, instituting information technology systems, development of supply chains, hiring personnel and releasing certain personnel. As a result, in certain contracts where the government does not fund program start-up costs, we may be required to make significant investments before receiving any related contract payments or payments sufficient to cover start-up costs. For example, WD Services incurred start-up costs in 2017 related to the UK's Work and Health Programme, and in 2016 related to the offender rehabilitation program in the UK and start-up costs in France. In addition, payments due to us from payers may be delayed due to billing cycles or as a result of failures to approve government budgets in a timely manner, which may adversely affect our liquidity. Moreover, any resulting mismatch in expenses and revenue, especially under FFS arrangements, could be exacerbated if we fail either to invoice the payer correctly or to collect our fee in a timely manner. Such amounts may exceed our available cash, and any resulting liquidity shortages may require additional financing, which may not be available on satisfactory terms, or at all. This could have a material adverse impact on our ongoing operations and our financial position.. Our business is subject to risks of litigation.. The services we provide are subject to lawsuits and claims. A substantial award payable by the Company could have a material adverse impact on our operations and cash flows, and could adversely impact our ability to continue to purchase appropriate liability insurance. We can be subject to claims for negligence or intentional misconduct (in addition to professional liability type claims) by an employee or a third party we engage to assist with the provision of services, including but not limited to claims arising out of accidents involving vehicle collisions, workforce development placements or CHAs and various claims that could. 19. result from employees or contracted third parties driving to or from interactions with clients or while providing direct client services. We can be subject to employee-related claims such as wrongful discharge, discrimination or a violation of equal employment laws and permitting issues. While we attempt to insure against for these types of claims, damages exceeding our insurance limits or outside our insurance coverage, such as a claim for fraud, certain wage and hour violations or punitive damages, could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition.. We face risks related to attracting and retaining qualified employees and labor relations.. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to identify, attract, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified and experienced professionals who possess the skills and experience necessary to deliver high-quality services to our clients, with the continued contributions of our senior management being especially critical to our success. Our objective of providing the highest quality of service to our clients is a significant consideration when we evaluate the education, experience and qualifications of potential candidates for employment as direct care and administrative staff. A portion of our staff are professionals with requisite educational backgrounds and professional certifications. These employees are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future.. Our ability to attract and retain employees with the requisite experience and skills depends on several factors including, but not limited to, our ability to offer competitive wages, benefits and professional growth opportunities. While we have established programs to attract new employees and provide incentives to retain existing employees, particularly our senior management, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract new employees or retain the services of our senior management or any other key employees in the future. In particular, we are currently seeking to fill several key management positions in our NET Services business, and we expect to continue to need to attract key employees to support the growth of our businesses. Some of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel may have greater financial, technical, political and marketing resources, name recognition and a larger number of clients and payers than we do, which may prove more attractive to employment candidates. The inability to attract and retain experienced personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The performance of each of our business segments also depends on the talents and efforts of our highly skilled information technology professionals. For example, technological improvement is a key component of the strategic initiative at NET Services to enhance member satisfaction and drive greater operational efficiencies and as NET Services expands our transportation network capacity beyond its traditional transportation provider network, increases on-time and on-demand performance, provides real time analytics and minimizes cancellations. Competition for skilled intellectual technology professionals can be intense. Our success depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate these individuals.. Effective succession planning is also important to our future success. If we fail to ensure the effective transfer of senior management knowledge and smooth transitions involving senior management, including the appointment of a new chief executive officer for the Company (as our chief executive officer terminated his role during the fourth quarter of 2017) and the transition of several key management positions, including the chief technology officer, in our NET Service business, our ability to execute short and long-term strategic, financial and operating goals, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations generally, could be adversely affected.. In addition, our businesses rely on maintaining strong relationships with our employees and avoiding labor disputes. Certain of our UK employees are members of the NAPO and Unison unions and certain of our employees in France are members of the Confederation Generale du Travail. Unionized employees in both countries have collective bargaining rights. Participation in unions is confidential under European employment laws. While we believe we have good relationships with our employees, both unionized and non-unionized, in the U.S. and internationally, including the unions that represent some of our employees, a work stoppage due to our failure to renegotiate union contracts or for other reasons could have a significant negative effect on us. In addition, should additional portions of our workforce be subject to collective bargaining agreements, this could result in increased costs of doing business as we may be subject to mandatory, binding arbitration of labor scheduling, costs and standards and we may therefore have reduced operating flexibility.. We may have difficulty successfully completing divestitures or exiting businesses.. As demonstrated in 2017 with the sale of our interests in Mission Providence Pty Ltd to Konekt Limited, in 2016 with the Matrix Transaction and in 2015 with the Human Services Sale, we may dispose of all or a portion of our investments or exit businesses based on a variety of factors, including availability of alternative opportunities to deploy capital or otherwise maximize shareholder value as well as other strategic considerations. A divestiture or business termination could result in difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention, the disruption of our business and the potential loss of key employees and customers. A divestiture or business termination may be subject to the satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as to obtaining necessary regulatory and government approvals, which, if not satisfied or obtained,. 20. may prevent us from completing the disposition or business termination, whether or not the disposition or business termination has been publicly announced. A divestiture or business termination may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested assets and businesses, such as indemnities or other financial obligations, including continuing obligations to employees, in which the performance of the divested assets or businesses could impact our results of operations. From time to time the Company guarantees the contractual payment or performance obligations of its segments. An inability to obtain waiver or termination of such guarantees may prevent us from completing a disposition or business termination, or may result in continued financial involvement in divested assets and businesses. Further, such divestitures may result in proceeds to us in an amount less than we expect or less than our assessment of the value of those assets. Any sale of our assets could result in a loss on divestiture. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The indemnification provisions of acquisition and disposition agreements by which we have acquired or sold companies may result in liabilities.. We rely heavily on the representations and warranties and related indemnities provided to us by the sellers of acquired companies, including as they relate to creation, ownership and rights in intellectual property and compliance with laws and contractual requirements. However, the liability of the former owners is limited under the relevant acquisition agreements, and certain sellers may be unable to meet their indemnification responsibilities. Similarly, the purchasers of our divested operations may from time to time agree to indemnify us for operations of such businesses after the closing. We cannot be assured that any of these indemnification provisions will fully protect us, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. In addition, we have provided certain indemnifications in connection with the Human Services Sale in 2015 and the Matrix Transaction in 2016. To the extent we choose to divest other operations of our businesses in the future, we expect to provide certain indemnifications in connection with these divestitures. We may face liabilities in connection with these current or future indemnification obligations that may adversely affect our consolidated results of operation, financial condition and cash flows. We have entered into a settlement with Molina Healthcare Inc. (\"Molina\"), the purchaser of our former Human Services segment, regarding the settlement of certain potential indemnification claims. As of December 31, 2017, the accrual is $15.0 million with respect to an estimate of loss for such potential indemnification claims.  Litigation is inherently uncertain, and the losses incurred in the event that the legal proceedings related to such claims were to result in unfavorable outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and financial performance. For more information on these potential indemnification obligations, see Note 18, Commitments and Contingencies, to our consolidated financial statements.. Our success depends on our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace.. We compete for clients and for contracts with a variety of organizations that offer similar services. Many organizations of varying sizes compete with us, including local not-for-profit organizations and community-based organizations, larger companies, organizations that currently provide or may begin to provide similar NET management services (including transportation network companies like Uber and Lyft), and large multi-national corporations that currently provide or may begin to provide workforce development services and CHA providers. Some of these companies may have greater financial, technical, political, marketing, name recognition and other resources and a larger number of clients or payers than we do. In addition, some of these companies offer more services than we do. To remain competitive, we must provide superior services and performance on a cost-effective basis to our customers.. The market in which we operate is influenced by technological developments that affect cost-efficiency and quality of services, and the needs of our customers change and evolve regularly. Accordingly, our success depends on our ability to develop services that address these changing needs and to provide technology needed to deliver these services on a cost-effective basis. Our competitors may better utilize technology to change the way services in our industry are designed and delivered and they may be able to provide our customers with different or greater capabilities than we can provide, including better contract terms, technical qualifications, price and availability of qualified professional personnel. In addition, new or disruptive technologies and methodologies by our competitors may make our services uncompetitive.. In conjunction with our initiatives to improve cost-efficiency, we incur substantial costs to develop technology, which may not ultimately serve our business purposes or lower costs.  For example, in 2016, WD Services incurred a write-off of in-process technology of $3.1 million related to our legal offender rehabilitation services, as it was determined the system would not meet our business needs. As of December 31, 2017, NET Services has incurred $11.9 million of development in progress costs related to its LCAD NextGen technology system, which is a critical component of its initiative to progress towards an industry-leading call center and reservation scheduling platform, improve member communication, accessibility, and satisfaction, optimize the utilization of our extensive network of transportation providers and build the foundation for additional analytical capabilities.. 21. The system has not been placed into service, and a review of the project is ongoing. In addition, we made a cost-method investment of $3.0 million during 2017, in Circulation, a technology-based transportation services provider.. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, competition from new entrants into the markets in which we operate. Increased competition may result in pricing pressures, loss of or failure to gain market share or loss of or failure to gain clients or payers, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our business may also be adversely affected by the consolidation of competitors, which may result in increased pricing pressure or negotiating leverage with payers, or by the provision of our services by payers or clients directly, including through the acquisition of competitors.. We may be adversely impacted by inadequacies in, or security breaches of, our information technology systems.. Our information technology systems are critically important to our operations and we must implement and maintain appropriate and sufficient infrastructure and systems to support growth and business processes. We provide services to individuals, including services that require us to maintain sensitive and personal client information, including information relating to their health, social security numbers and other identifying data. Therefore, our information technology systems store client information protected by numerous federal, state and foreign regulations. We also rely on our information technology systems (some of which are outsourced to third parties) to manage the data, communications and business processes for all other functions, including our marketing, sales, logistics, customer service, accounting and administrative functions. Further, our systems include interfaces to third-party stakeholders, often connected via the Internet. In addition, certain of our services or information related to our services are carried out or hosted within our customers' IT systems, and any failure or weaknesses in their IT systems may negatively impact our ability to deliver the services, for which we may not receive relief from contractual performance obligations or compensation for services provided. As a result of the data we maintain and third-party access, we are subject to increasing cybersecurity risks. The nature of our business, where services are often performed outside a secured location, adds additional risk.. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build, sustain and protect an appropriate technology infrastructure, our business or financial results could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, computer hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate large scale and complex automated attacks and our information technology systems may be vulnerable to material security breaches (including the access to or acquisition of customer, employee or other confidential data), cyber-based attacks or other material system failures. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to implement adequate preventative measures sufficient to prevent a breach of our systems and protect sensitive data. Any breach of our data security could result in an unauthorized release or transfer of customer or employee information, or the loss of valuable business data or cause a disruption in our business. A failure to prevent, detect and respond in a timely manner to a major breach of our data security or to other cybersecurity threats could result in system disruption, business continuity issues or compromised data integrity.  These events or any other failure to safeguard personal data could give rise to unwanted media attention, damage our reputation, damage our customer relationships and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. We may also be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against or respond to or alleviate problems caused by a security breach. If we are unable to prevent material failures, our operations may be impacted, and we may suffer other negative consequences such as reputational damage, litigation, remediation costs, a requirement not to operate our business until defects are remedied or penalties under various data privacy laws and regulations, any of which could detrimentally affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to protect our client's privacy and confidential information could lead to legal liability, adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We retain confidential information in our computer systems, including personal information about our customers, such as names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, identification numbers and payment account information. Malicious cyber attacks to gain access to personal information affect many companies across various industries, including ours. Pursuant to federal and state laws, various government agencies have established rules protecting the privacy and security of personal information. In addition, most states have enacted laws, which vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, to safeguard the privacy and security of personal information. An increasing number of states require that customers be notified if a security breach results in the inappropriate disclosure of personally identifiable customer information. Any compromise of the security of our systems that results in the disclosure of personally identifiable customer or employee information or inadvertent disclosure of any clients' personal information could damage our reputation, deter people from using our services, expose us to litigation, increase regulatory scrutiny and require us to incur significant technical, legal and other expenses. In addition, data breaches impacting other companies, such as our vendors, may allow cybercriminals to obtain personally identifiable information about our customers. Cybercriminals may then use this information to, among other things, attempt to gain unauthorized access to our customers' accounts, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or financial condition.. 22. Failure to maintain or to develop further reliable, efficient and secure information technology systems would be disruptive to our operations and diminish our ability to compete and grow our business successfully.. We are highly dependent on efficient and uninterrupted performance of our information technology and business systems. These systems quote, process and service our business, and perform financial functions necessary for pricing and service delivery. These systems must also be able to undergo periodic modifications and improvements without interruptions or untimely delays in service. Additionally, our ability to integrate our systems with those of our clients is critical to our success. Our information systems rely on the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources to maintain and enhance existing systems as well as develop and create new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology or evolving industry and regulatory requirements. However, we still rely on manual processes and procedures, including accounting, reporting and consolidation processes that may result in errors and may not scale proportionately with our business growth.. A failure or delay to achieve improvements in our information technology platforms could interrupt certain processes or degrade business operations and could place us at a competitive disadvantage. If we are unable to implement appropriate systems, procedures and controls, we may not be able to successfully offer our services and grow our business and account for transactions in an appropriate and timely manner, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. There are risks associated with our international operations that are different from the risks associated with our operations in the U.S., and our exposure to the risks of a global market could hinder our ability to maintain and expand international operations.. We have operation centers in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea, Switzerland, the UK and the U.S. and a noncontrolling interest in a joint venture in Spain. In implementing our international strategy, we may face barriers to entry and competition from local companies and other companies that already have established global businesses, as well as the risks generally associated with conducting business internationally. The success and profitability of international operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control, such as:. • political or economic instability;. • changes in governmental regulation or taxation;. • currency exchange fluctuations;. • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing operations in certain foreign countries, including potential pension and social plan liabilities;. • work stoppages or other changes in labor conditions; and. • taxes and other restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the U.S.. In addition, changes in policies or laws of the U.S. or foreign governments resulting in, among other changes, higher taxation, tariffs or similar protectionist laws could reduce the anticipated benefits of international operations and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have currency exposure arising from both sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, including intercompany transactions outside the U.S., and we currently do not conduct hedging activities. The value of the U.S. dollar against other foreign currencies has seen significant volatility recently. Our financial condition and results of operations are reported in multiple currencies, and are then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. Appreciation of the U.S. dollar against these other currencies will have a negative impact on our reported net revenue and operating income while depreciation of the U.S. dollar against such currencies will have a positive effect on reported net revenue and operating income. We cannot predict with precision the effect of future exchange-rate fluctuations on our business and operating results, and significant rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our results of operations will continue to fluctuate due to seasonality.. NET Services operating results and operating cash flows normally fluctuate as a result of seasonal variations in our business. Due to higher demand in the summer months and lower demand in the winter months, coupled with a primarily fixed revenue stream based on a per-member, per-month payment structure, NET Services normally experiences lower operating margins during the summer season and higher operating margins during the winter season. WD Services typically does not experience seasonal fluctuations in operating results. However, volatility in revenue and earnings is common in the case of WD Services due to the timing of commencement and expiration of certain major contracts as well as fluctuations in referrals provided by its customers.. 23. Our reported financial results could suffer if there is an impairment of long-lived assets.. Goodwill may be impaired if the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units is less than the carrying value of the respective reporting unit. As a result of our growth, in part through acquisitions, goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets. We perform an analysis on our goodwill balances to test for impairment on an annual basis. Interim impairment tests may also be required in advance of our annual impairment test if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value, including goodwill, of one or more of our reporting units below the reporting unit's carrying value. Such circumstances could include but are not limited to: (1) loss of significant contracts, (2) a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the climate of our business, (3) unanticipated competition, (4) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator or (5) a significant decline in our stock price. In the fourth quarter of 2016, we recorded asset impairment charges of $19.6 million related to WD Services and an asset impairment of $1.4 million for Corporate and Other related to the sale of a building, as discussed below in Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates\". As of December 31, 2017, the carrying value of goodwill, intangibles and property and equipment, net is $121.7 million, $43.9 million and $50.4 million, respectively. In addition, property and equipment as of December 31, 2017 includes $13.4 million of construction and development in progress, primarily related to NET Services' LCAD NextGen technology system, as discussed above.  We continue to monitor the carrying value of these long-lived assets.  Any future impairment charges could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position.. Our use of a reinsurance program and insurance programs to cover certain claims for losses suffered and costs or expenses incurred could negatively impact our business.. We reinsured a substantial portion of our automobile, general liability, professional liability and workers' compensation insurance policies through May 15, 2017.  Upon renewal of the policies, we made the decision to no longer reinsure these risks, although we continue to resolve claims under the historical policy years. Through February 15, 2011, one of our subsidiaries also insured certain general liability, automobile liability, and automobile physical damage coverage for independent third-party transportation providers.  In the event that actual reinsured losses increase unexpectedly and substantially exceed actuarially determined estimated reinsured losses under the program, the aggregate of such losses could materially increase our liability and adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, cash flows and results of operations.. In addition, under our current insurance policies, we are subject to deductibles, and thus retain exposure within these limits.  In the event that actual losses within our deductible limits increase unexpectedly and substantially exceed our expected losses, the aggregate of such losses could materially increase our liability and adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, cash flows and results of operations.. As the availability to us of certain traditional insurance coverage diminishes or increases in cost, we will continue to evaluate the levels and types of insurance coverage we include in our reinsurance and self-insurance programs, as well as the deductible limits within our traditional insurance programs. Any increase to these reinsurance and self-insurance programs or increases in deductible limits increases our risk exposure and therefore increases the risk of a possible material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, cash flows and results of operations.. Inaccurate, misleading or negative media coverage could damage our reputation and harm our ability to maintain or procure contracts.. There is sometimes media coverage regarding services that we or our competitors provide or contracts that we or our competitors are a party to. Inaccurate, misleading or negative media coverage about us could harm our reputation and, accordingly, our ability to maintain our existing contracts or procure new contracts. In addition, negative media coverage could influence government officials to slow the pace of privatizing or retendering government services.. 24. Regulatory Risks. Our U.S. Healthcare Segments conduct business in a heavily regulated healthcare industry. Compliance with existing Laws is costly, and changes in Laws or violations of Laws may result in increased costs or sanctions that could reduce our segments' revenue and profitability.. The U.S. healthcare industry is subject to extensive federal and state Laws relating to, among other things:. • professional licensure;. • conduct of operations;. • addition of facilities, equipment and services, including certificates of need;. • coding and billing related to our services; and. • payment for services.. Both federal and state government agencies have increased coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts related to the healthcare industry. Regulations related to the healthcare industry are extremely complex and, in many instances, the industry does not have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of those laws. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as well as the anticipated attempts to repeal all or portions of those laws by the President and Congress, has also introduced some degree of regulatory uncertainty as the industry does not know how the changes it introduced or changes to it will affect many aspects of the industry. Medicare and Medicaid anti-fraud and abuse laws prohibit certain business practices and relationships related to items and services reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental healthcare programs, including the payment or receipt of remuneration to induce or arrange for referral of patients or recommendation for the provision of items or services covered by Medicare or Medicaid or any other federal or state healthcare program. Federal and state Laws prohibit the submission of false or fraudulent claims, including claims to obtain reimbursement under Medicare and Medicaid. Our U.S. Healthcare Segments have implemented compliance policies to help assure their compliance with these regulations as they become effective; however, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations in the future could subject our practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require such segments to make changes in their facilities, equipment, personnel, services or the manner in which they conduct our business.. Changes in budgetary priorities of the government entities that fund the services our segments provide could result in our segments' loss of contracts or a decrease in amounts payable to them under their contracts.. Our segments' revenue is largely derived from contracts that are directly or indirectly paid or funded by government agencies. All of these contracts are subject to legislative appropriations and state or national budget approval. The availability of funding under NET Services' contracts with state governments is dependent in part upon federal funding to states. Changes in Medicaid methodology may further reduce the availability of federal funds to states in which our U.S. Healthcare Segments provide services. The President of the United States and Congress have proposed various changes to the Medicaid program, including considering converting the Medicaid program to a block grant format or capping the federal contribution to state Medicaid programs to a fixed amount per beneficiary. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (\"CMS\") has the ability to grant waivers to states relative to the parameters of their Medicaid programs. Such changes, individually or in the aggregate could have a material adverse effect on our U.S. Healthcare Segments operations.. Among the alternative Medicaid funding approaches that states have explored are provider assessments as tools for leveraging increased Medicaid federal matching funds. Provider assessment plans generate additional federal matching funds to the states for Medicaid reimbursement purposes, and implementation of a provider assessment plan requires approval by CMS in order to qualify for federal matching funds. These plans usually take the form of a bed tax or a quality assessment fee, which were historically required to be imposed uniformly across classes of providers within the state, except that such taxes only applied to Medicaid health plans.. Changes to provider assessment opportunities, the Medicaid programs in states in which our U.S. Healthcare Segments operate or in the structure of the federal government's support for those programs can impact the amount of funds available in the programs our U.S. Healthcare Segments support. Such segments cannot make any assurances that these Medicaid changes will not negatively affect the funding under their contracts. As funding under U.S. Healthcare Segments' contracts is dependent in part upon federal funding, such funding changes could have a significant effect upon such segments' businesses.. Currently, many of the U.S. states and overseas countries in which our segments operate are facing budgetary shortfalls or changes in budgetary priorities. While many of these states are dealing with budgetary concerns by shifting costs from institutional care to home and community based care such as we provide, there is no assurance that this trend will continue.. 25. Likewise, in many of the overseas countries addressed by WD Services, particularly the UK, a continued focus following the global financial crisis on austerity measures to reduce national and local budget deficits could lead to further spending cuts or changes to welfare arrangements. This may make availability of funding for outsourcing of such services more difficult to obtain from relevant government departments, which may lead to more challenging terms and conditions, including pressure on prices or volumes of services provided.. In the UK, the low unemployment rate has led to a change in the government prioritizing employability services, and a consequent reduction in scale of the Work and Health Programme, the successor program to the Work Programme. While we have the ability to alter a portion of our cost structure to reflect the decreasing volume of these contracts during their term, there may be significant redundancy costs and management time additionally invested to reflect these changes, particularly if programs are discontinued.. Consequently, a significant decline in government expenditures, shift of expenditures or funding away from programs that call for the types of services that we provide, or change in government contracting or funding policies could cause payers to terminate their contracts with our segments or reduce their expenditures under those contracts, either of which could have a negative impact on our segments' operating results.. Our segments are subject to regulations relating to privacy and security of patient and service user information. Failure to comply with privacy and security regulations could result in a material adverse impact on our segments' operating results.. There are numerous federal and state regulations addressing patient information privacy and security concerns. In particular, the federal regulations issued under HIPAA contain provisions that:. • protect individual privacy by limiting the uses and disclosures of patient information;. • require the implementation of security safeguards to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of individually identifiable health information in electronic form; and. • prescribe specific transaction formats and data code sets for certain electronic healthcare transactions.. Compliance with state and federal laws and regulations is costly and requires our segment management to expend substantial time and resources which could negatively impact our segments' results of operations. Further, the HIPAA regulations and state privacy laws expose our segments to increased regulatory risk, as the penalties associated with a failure to comply or with information security breaches, even if unintentional, could have a material adverse effect on our segments' results of operations.. Our WD Services segment has operations in many countries in Europe, and internationally, and these operations have access to significant amounts of sensitive personal information about individuals. In Europe, these operations are subject to European and national data privacy legislation which imposes significant obligations on data processors and controllers with respect to such personal information. Similar regimes exist in other WD Service jurisdictions such as Australia, Canada and South Korea. Some countries, such as Spain, France and Germany, have particularly strong privacy laws which impose even greater obligations on people handling personal information. Data protection and privacy law within the EU is changing effective May 25, 2018, from which date the EU General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") must be complied with.  Amongst other changes the GDPR brings about an increase in the potential fines for certain breaches of the GDPR, of up to the higher of 4% of an undertaking's global turnover or \20020,000,000. In addition to fining powers, data protection authorities in Europe have significant powers to require organizations that breach regulations to put in place measures to ensure that such breaches do not occur again, and require businesses to stop processing personal information until the required measures are in place. Such orders could significantly impact our business given that we are required to handle personal information as part of our service delivery model. The GDPR and other similar laws and regulations, as well as any associated inquiries or investigations or any other government actions, may be costly to comply with, result in negative publicity, increase our operating costs, require significant management time and attention, and subject us to remedies that may harm our business, including fines or demands or orders that we modify or cease existing business practices.. Our segments could be subject to actions for false claims or recoupment of funds pursuant to certain audits if they do not comply with government coding and billing rules, which could have a material adverse impact on our segments' operating results.. If our segments fail to comply with federal and state documentation, coding and billing rules, our segments could be subject to criminal or civil penalties, loss of licenses and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which could have a material adverse impact on our segments' operating results. In billing for our segments' services to third-party payers, our segments must follow complex documentation, coding and billing rules. These rules are based on federal and state laws, rules and regulations, various government pronouncements, and industry practice. In the U.S., failure to follow these rules could result in. 26. potential criminal or civil liability under the federal False Claims Act, under which extensive financial penalties can be imposed or under various state statutes which prohibit the submission of false claims for services covered. Compliance failure could further result in criminal liability under various federal and state criminal or civil statutes. Our segments may be subject to audits conducted by our clients or their proxies that may result in recoupment of funds. In addition, our segments' clients may be subject to certain audits that may result in recoupment of funds from our clients that may, in turn, implicate our segments' services. Our segments' businesses could be adversely affected in the event such an audit results in negative findings and recoupment from or penalties to their customers.. Our segment contracts are subject to stringent claims and invoice processing regimes which vary depending on the customer and nature of the payment mechanism. Government entities in the U.S. may take the position that if a transport cannot be matched to a healthcare event, or is conducted inconsistently with contractual, regulatory or even policy requirements, payment for such transport may be recouped by such customer. Under European procurement legislation which has been implemented in each EU member state, any conviction for fraud can result in a ban from participating in public procurement tenders for up to five years, or until the organization in question has put in place \"self clean\" measures to the satisfaction of the procuring authority. This could significantly affect our business given that most of our customers in Europe are governmental organizations. Any such breaches or deficiencies in paperwork associated with billing may also be subject to contractual clawback regimes and penalties, which can be enforced many years after the revenue has been paid by the relevant authority.. While our segments carefully and regularly review their documentation, coding and billing practices, the rules are frequently vague and confusing and they cannot assure that governmental investigators, private insurers or private whistleblowers will not challenge their practices. Such a challenge could result in a material adverse effect on our segments' financial position and results of operations.. Our segments' business could be subject to civil penalties and loss of business if we fail to comply with applicable bribery, corruption and other regulations governing business with governments.. Our U.S. Healthcare Segments are subject to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for referring, ordering, leasing, purchasing or arranging for or recommending the ordering, purchasing or leasing of items or services payable by a federally funded healthcare program. Any of our U.S. Healthcare Segments' financial relationships with healthcare providers will be potentially implicated by this statute to the extent Medicare or Medicaid referrals are implicated. Violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute could result in substantial civil or criminal penalties, including criminal fines of up to $25,000 per violation, imprisonment of up to five years, civil penalties under the Civil Monetary Penalties Law of up to $50,000 per violation, plus three times the remuneration involved, civil penalties under the False Claims Act of up to $11,000 for each claim submitted, plus three times the amounts paid for such claims and exclusion from participation in the Medicaid and Medicare programs. Any such penalties could have a significant negative effect on our U.S. Healthcare Segments' operations. Furthermore, the exclusion, if applied to such segments, could result in significant reductions in our revenues, which could materially and adversely affect such segments' businesses, financial condition and results of their operations. In addition, many states have adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute with similar penalties.. As an international business whose customers are largely in the public sector, the WD Services segment generally wins work through public tender processes. Various statutes, such as the UK's Bribery Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in the U.S., generally require organizations to prohibit bribery by or for the organization and demand the implementation of systems to counter bribery, including risk management, training and guidance and the maintenance of adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices. These statutes also, among other things, prohibit us from providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of influencing official decisions or obtaining or retaining business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. In addition, many countries in which we operate have antitrust or competition regulations which, among other things, prohibit collusive tendering or bid-rigging behavior. Policies and procedures we implement to prevent bribery, corruption and anti-competitive conduct may not effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, and such a violation could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Any breach of bribery, corruption and collusive tendering laws could also expose our operations in Europe to a ban from participating in public procurement tenders for up to 5 years, or until the organization in question has put in place \"self clean\" measures to the satisfaction of the procuring authority.. In WD Services, we conduct business in several countries, each with its own system of regulation. Compliance with existing regulations is costly, and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that could reduce our revenue and profitability.. As of December 31, 2017, our WD Services segment operated in the U.S and 10 countries outside the U.S. Each of these countries has its own national and municipal laws and regulations, and some countries such as Australia, Germany and Switzerland,. 27. have both federal and state regulations. In the UK, certain law making powers are being devolved to Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. These laws can differ significantly from country to country. In addition, in Europe, countries (including the UK) are subject to European Union (\"EU\") laws and rules. We have implemented compliance policies to help assure our compliance with these laws and regulations as they become effective; however, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations in the future could subject our practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services or the manner in which we conduct our business.. Our segments' businesses could be adversely affected by future legislative changes that hinder or reverse the privatization of non-emergency transportation services or workforce development services.. The market for certain of our segments' services depends largely on government sponsored programs. These programs can be modified or amended at any time. Moreover, part of our growth strategy includes aggressively pursuing opportunities created by government initiatives to privatize the delivery of non-emergency transportation services and workforce development services. However, there are opponents to the privatization of these services and, as a result, future privatization is uncertain. In the UK, opposition to the government's outsourcing of the services provided by WD Services to private companies may increase in light of recent events in the UK, including the liquidation of the UK government contractor Carillion plc. In 2017, legislation was proposed in the U.S. Congress, but not passed, which would reduce or eliminate certain non-emergency medical transportation services provided by NET Services as a required Medicaid benefit. If additional privatization initiatives are not proposed or enacted, or if previously enacted privatization initiatives are challenged, repealed or invalidated, there could be a material adverse impact on our segments' operating results.. Our business could be adversely affected by the referendum on the UK's exit from the European Union.. On June 23, 2016, the UK held a referendum in which eligible persons voted in favor of a proposal that the UK leave the EU, also known as \"Brexit\". The result of the referendum increases political and economic uncertainty in the UK for the foreseeable future, in particular during any period where the terms of any UK exit from the EU are negotiated. In turn, Brexit could cause disruptions to and create uncertainty surrounding our business, including affecting our relationships with our existing and future payers and employees, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results, operations and prospects, including being adversely affected in ways that cannot be anticipated at present. The impact of Brexit on our business is not yet clear, and will depend on any agreements the UK makes to retain access to EU markets. Such agreements could potentially disrupt and/or destabilize the markets we serve and the tax jurisdictions in which we operate and adversely change tax benefits or liabilities in these or other jurisdictions. The terms of any UK exit from the EU could generate restriction on the movement of capital and the mobility of personnel. Depending on the outcome of negotiations between the UK and the European Union regarding the terms of Brexit (which will be negotiated over a period which may extend at least until March 2019), we may decide to alter the group's European operations to respond to new business, legal, regulatory, tax and trade environments that may result. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the UK determines which EU laws to replace, modify or replicate.. Following the referendum, there was significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies in which we conduct business. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to the British pound and other currencies may adversely affect our results of operations as we translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currency into U.S. dollars for our financial statements. During periods of a strengthening dollar, our reported international sales and earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer U.S. dollars. For the year ended December 31, 2017, revenue denominated in British pound represented 11.6% of our revenue.. Brexit may also create global economic uncertainty, which may cause our payers to closely monitor their costs and reduce their spending budget on our services. Additionally, changes in governmental personnel may impact our current relationships with our payers. Any of these effects and the uncertainties of Brexit, among others, could materially adversely affect our business, business opportunities, results of operations, financial condition, future growth and cash flows.. Changes to the regulatory landscape applicable to Matrix could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The CHA services industry is primarily regulated by federal and state healthcare Laws and the requirements of participation and reimbursement of the MA Program established by CMS. From time to time, CMS considers changes to regulatory guidelines with respect to prospective CHAs or the risk adjusted payment system applicable to Matrix's Medicare Advantage plan customers. CMS could adopt new requirements or guidelines that may, for example, increase the costs associated with CHAs, limit the opportunities and settings available to administer CHAs, or otherwise change the risk adjusted payment system in a way that would. 28. adversely impact our business. Further, changes in or adoption of new state laws governing the scope of practice of mid-level practitioners, or more restrictive interpretations of such laws, may restrict Matrix's ability to provide services using nurse practitioners. Any such implementation of additional regulations on the CHA industry by CMS or other regulatory bodies or further regulation of mid-level practitioners could have a material adverse impact on Matrix's revenues and margins, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations.. If our U.S. Healthcare Segments fail to comply with physician self-referral laws, to the extent applicable to our operations, they could experience a significant loss of reimbursement revenue.. Our U.S. Healthcare Segments may be subject to federal and state statutes and regulations banning payments for referrals of patients and referrals by physicians to healthcare providers with whom the physicians have a financial relationship and billing for services provided pursuant to such referrals if any occur. Violation of these federal and state laws and regulations, to the extent applicable to our U.S. Healthcare Segments' operations, may result in prohibition of payment for services rendered, loss of licenses, fines, criminal penalties and exclusion from Medicaid and Medicare programs. To the extent such segments do maintain such financial relationships with physicians, they rely on certain exceptions to self-referral laws that they believe will be applicable to such arrangements. Any failure to comply with such exceptions could result in the penalties discussed above.. As government contractors, our segments are subject to an increased risk of litigation and other legal actions and liabilities.. As government contractors, our segments are subject to an increased risk of investigation, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, whistleblower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities that are not as frequently experienced by companies that do not provide government sponsored services. Companies providing government sponsored services can also become involved in public inquiries which can lead to negative media speculation or potential cancellation or termination of contracts. In WD Services in Europe, European procurement regulations in force in each European Union member state require public procurement authorities to impose a ban from participating in public procurement tenders for up to five years, or until the organization in question has put in place \"self clean\" measures to the satisfaction of the procuring authority, where companies are found guilty of fraud or certain other criminal offenses. Authorities can also exercise their discretion to blacklist companies for up to two years where they believe they have been involved in acts of gross misconduct or until the organization in question has put in place \"self clean\" measures to the satisfaction of the procuring authority. The occurrence of any of these actions, regardless of the outcome, could disrupt our operations and result in increased costs, and could limit our ability to obtain additional contracts in other jurisdictions. Further, government tenders in the U.S., the European Union and other countries can be subject to challenge where the procurer has not followed the correct processes, or where they seek to make material amendments to contracts after award. Consequently, it can be very difficult to convince government customers to amend their contracts, even where circumstances have changed significantly, because they are concerned that if challenged they may have to re-procure the entire service. This can pose significant risks in terms of cost management and profitability.. Our segments' businesses are subject to licensing regulations and other regulatory provisions, including provisions governing surveys and audits. Changes to, or violations of, these regulations could negatively impact our segments' revenues.. In many of the locations where our segments operate, they are required by local laws (both U.S. and foreign) to obtain and maintain licenses. The applicable state and local licensing requirements govern the services our segments provide, the credentials of staff, record keeping, treatment planning, client monitoring and supervision of staff. The failure to maintain these licenses or the loss of a license could have a material adverse impact on our segments' businesses and could prevent them from providing services to clients in a given jurisdiction. Our segments' contracts are subject to surveys or audit by their payers or their clients. Our segments are also subject to regulations that restrict their ability to contract directly with a government agency in certain situations. Such restrictions could affect our segments' ability to contract with certain payers and clients, and could have a material adverse impact on our segments' results of operations.. 29. Our segments' contracts are subject to audit and modification by the payers with whom our segments contract, at their sole discretion.. Our segments' businesses depend on their ability to successfully perform under various government funded contracts. Under the terms of these contracts, payers, government agencies or their proxy contractors can review our segments' compliance or performance, as well as our segments' records and general business practices at any time, and may, in their discretion:. • suspend or prevent our segments from receiving new contracts or extending existing contracts because of violations or suspected violations of procurement laws or regulations;. • terminate or modify our segments' existing contracts;. • reduce the amount our segments are paid under our existing contracts; or. • audit and object to our segments' contract related fees.. Any increase in the number or scope of audits could increase our segments' expenses, and the audit process may disrupt the day-to-day operations of our segments' businesses and distract their management. If payers have significant audit findings, or if they make material modifications to our segments' contracts, it could have a material adverse impact on our segments' results of operations.. Contract profitability may decline due to actions by governmental agencies or penalties that are based on government generated statistical information that may not be known to us in advance.. WD Services' operating costs and profitability may be significantly impacted by actions required by a government agency, such as the availability of information systems maintained by the government to streamline enrollment into our service programs. Government generated performance statistics, such as the MOJ reoffending report, may not be known to us prior to its release by the government agencies. WD Services may be subject to penalties that are based on such government generated statistics, and we could be required to make material payments, the amounts of which we may not be able to estimate and which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, certain contracts may require that we hire former government employees, in relation to offering our service programs, or develop new information technology systems which would serve to replace legacy systems operated by the government. Lastly, revenue under certain contracts may be adjusted prospectively if client volumes are below expectations or client profiles change materially, which may also lead to cost or productivity changes. If the Company is unable to adjust its costs accordingly, profitability is negatively impacted.. Our estimated income taxes could be materially different from income taxes that we ultimately pay.. We are subject to income taxation in both the U.S. and 10 foreign countries, including specific states or provinces where we operate.  Our overall effective income tax rate is a function of applicable local tax rates and the geographic mix of our income from continuing operations before taxes, which is itself impacted by currency movements. Consequently, the isolated or combined effects of unfavorable movements in tax rates, geographic mix, or foreign exchange rates could reduce our after-tax income.. Our annual tax rate is based on our income and the tax laws in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Significant judgment and estimation is required in determining our annual income tax expense and in evaluating our tax positions and related matters. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determinations are uncertain or otherwise subject to interpretation. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related disputes could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. In addition, we make judgments regarding the applicability of tax treaties and the appropriate application of transfer pricing regulations. In the event one taxing jurisdiction disagrees with another taxing jurisdiction with respect to the amount or applicability of a particular type of tax, or the amount or availability of a particular type of tax refund or credit, we could experience temporary or permanent double taxation and increased professional fees to resolve such taxation matters. Our determination of our income tax liability is always subject to review by applicable tax authorities, and we have been audited by various jurisdictions in prior years. Although we believe our income tax estimates and related determinations are reasonable and appropriate, relevant taxing authorities may disagree. The ultimate outcome of any such audits and reviews could be materially different from the estimates and determinations reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and the results of our operations.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Reform Act\"), which was signed into law on December 22, 2017, significantly affected U.S. income tax law by changing how the U.S. imposes income tax on multinational corporations. We have recorded in our consolidated financial statements provisional amounts based on our current estimates of the effects of the Tax Reform Act in. 30. accordance with our current understanding of the Tax Reform Act and currently available guidance. For additional information regarding the Tax Reform Act and the provisional tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Critical Accounting Policies\". The final amounts may be significantly affected by regulations and interpretive guidance expected to be issued by the tax authorities, clarifications of the accounting treatment of various items, our additional analysis, and our refinement of our estimates of the effects of the Tax Reform Act and, therefore, such final amounts may be materially different than our current provisional amounts, which could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. Restrictive covenants in our Credit Agreement may limit our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to pursue our business strategies.. The terms contained in the agreements that govern certain of our indebtedness, including our Amended and Restated Credit and Guaranty Agreement (as amended, supplemented, or modified, the \"Credit Agreement\"), and the agreements that govern any future indebtedness of ours, may include a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to take actions that we believe may be in our best interest. These agreements, among other things, limit our ability to:. • incur additional debt;. • provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons;. • issue redeemable stock and preferred stock;. • pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock;. • make loans, investments and capital expenditures;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • create or incur liens;. • make distributions from our subsidiaries;. • sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries;. • make acquisitions; and. • consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person.. A breach of the covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the applicable agreements that govern our indebtedness. Such default may preclude us from drawing from our senior secured credit facility (the \"Credit Facility\") or allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt that we may incur to which a cross acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In the event our lenders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we cannot assure that we and our subsidiaries would have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness.. Loss of available financing or an inability to renew, repay or refinance our debt could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. At December 31, 2017, our available credit under the Credit Facility was $188.9 million. The Credit Facility matures on August 2, 2018. If our cash on hand is insufficient, or we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows in the future, to cover our cash flow and liquidity needs and service our debt, we may be required to seek additional sources of funds, including refinancing all or a portion of our existing or future debt, incurring additional debt to maintain sufficient cash flow to fund our ongoing operating needs, pay interest and fund anticipated expenditures. There can be no assurance that any refinancing will be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, we may (i) be unable to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness, (ii) be unable to pursue future business opportunities or fund acquisitions, (iii) find it more difficult to fund future operating costs, tax payments or general corporate expenditures and (iv) become vulnerable to adverse general economic, capital markets and industry conditions. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations.. 31. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, which could impair our financial condition.. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future to fund activities including but not limited to share repurchases, acquisitions, cash dividends and business expansion. Any existing and future indebtedness increases the risk that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay amounts due in respect of such indebtedness. Future substantial indebtedness could have other important consequences on our business. For example, it could:. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations;. • make it more difficult to renew or enter into new contracts with existing and potential future clients;. • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts to fund working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or acquisitions and other purposes;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds available to us for other purposes;. • restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from any such dispositions;. • restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due;. • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions, as well as in government regulation and to our business;. • expose us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because some of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expenses in the event of increases in interest rates; and. • make it more difficult to satisfy our financial obligations.. Our ability to satisfy and manage our debt obligations depends on our ability to generate cash flow and on overall financial market conditions. To some extent, this is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to permit us to pay principal, premium, if any, or interest on our debt obligations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt obligations and meet our other cash needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell or curtail assets or operations, seek additional capital, or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. If we must sell or curtail our assets or operations, it may negatively affect our ability to generate revenue.. Risks Related to Our Capital Stock. Our annual operating results and stock price may be volatile or may decline significantly regardless of our operating performance.. Our annual operating results and the market price for our Common Stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, many of which we cannot control, including:. • changes in rates or coverage for services by payers;. • changes in Medicaid, Medicare or other U.S. federal or state rules, regulations, policies or applicable foreign regulations, policies and technical guidance, including UK health, employment and criminal justice legislation and guidance, Saudi Arabian licensing and Saudization rules, as well as other foreign laws applicable to our business;. • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market;. • market conditions or trends in our industry or the economy as a whole;. • increased competition in any of our segments, including through insourcing of services by our clients and new entrants to the market;. • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, natural disasters or responses to these events;. • changes in tax law; and. • changes in accounting principles.. In addition, the stock markets, and in particular the NASDAQ Global Select Market, have experienced considerable price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we become involved in securities litigation, we could incur substantial costs, and our resources and the attention of management could be diverted from our business.. 32. The Company depends on its subsidiaries for cash to fund all of its operations and expenses, including to make future dividend payments, if any.. Our operations are conducted entirely through our subsidiaries and our ability to generate cash to fund all of our operations and expenses, to pay dividends or to meet any debt service obligations is highly dependent on the earnings and the receipt of funds from our subsidiaries via dividends or intercompany loans. We do not currently expect to declare or pay dividends on our Common Stock for the foreseeable future; however, to the extent that we determine in the future to pay dividends on our Common Stock, none of our subsidiaries will be obligated to make funds available to us for the payment of dividends. Further, the agreement governing our Credit Agreement significantly restricts the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends, make loans or otherwise transfer assets to us. In addition, Delaware law may impose requirements that may restrict our ability to pay dividends to holders of our Common Stock.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our Common Stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more analysts downgrade our stock or publish misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline.. Sales of substantial amounts of our Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our Common Stock to decline. As of March 5, 2018, we had 12,866,551 outstanding shares of Common Stock which are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the \"Securities Act\"), unless held by or purchased by our \"affiliates\" as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Shares of our Common Stock held by or purchased by our affiliates are restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, but will be eligible for resale subject to applicable volume, means of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144 under the Securities Act.. As of March 5, 2018, shares of our convertible preferred stock were convertible into 2,014,042 shares of Common Stock, all of which are subject to registration rights. In addition, as of March 5, 2018, 1,653,755 shares of Common Stock are beneficially owned by entities for which Coliseum Capital Management acts as investment adviser.. In August 2016, we filed a registration statement under the Securities Act to register additional shares of Common Stock to be issued under our equity compensation plans and, as a result, all shares of Common Stock acquired upon exercise of stock options granted under our plans will also be freely tradable under the Securities Act, unless purchased by our affiliates. As of December 31, 2017, there were stock options outstanding to purchase a total of 606,695 shares of our Common Stock and there were 111,157 shares of our Common Stock subject to restricted stock awards. In addition, 1,938,666 shares of our Common Stock are reserved for future issuances under the plan.. The terms of our Preferred Stock contain restrictive covenants that may impair our ability to conduct business and we may not be able to maintain compliance with the obligations under our outstanding Preferred Stock which could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and our stock price.. On February 11, 2015 and March 12, 2015, we issued $65.5 million and $15.8 million, respectively, of Preferred Stock. The terms of the Preferred Stock require us to pay mandatory quarterly dividends, either in cash or through an increase in the stated principal value of such stock. Our ability to satisfy and manage our obligations under our outstanding Preferred Stock depends, in part, on our ability to generate cash flow and on overall financial market conditions. Additionally, the terms of our Preferred Stock contain operating and financial covenants that limit management's discretion with respect to certain business matters. Among other things, these covenants, subject to certain limitations and exceptions, restrict our ability to incur additional debt, sell or otherwise dispose of our assets, make acquisitions, and merge or consolidate with other entities. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we may be limited in how we conduct our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and our stock price.. 33. Future offerings of debt or equity securities that would rank senior to our Common Stock, may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock.. If, in the future, we decide to issue debt or equity securities that rank senior to our Common Stock, it is likely that such securities will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our Common Stock and may result in dilution to owners of our Common Stock. We and, indirectly, our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our Common Stock will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our Common Stock and diluting the value of their stock holdings in us.. Fulfilling our obligations incident to being a public company, including with respect to the requirements of and related rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, is expensive and time-consuming, and any delays or difficulties in satisfying these obligations could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and our stock price.. We are subject to the reporting and corporate governance requirements, under the listing standards of the NASDAQ Global Select Market (\"NASDAQ\") and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\"), that apply to issuers of listed equity, which impose certain significant compliance costs and obligations upon us. Being a publicly listed company requires a significant commitment of additional resources and management oversight resulting in increased operating costs. These requirements also place additional demands on our finance and accounting staff and on our financial accounting and information systems. Other expenses associated with being a public company include increases in auditing, accounting and legal fees and expenses, investor relations expenses, increased directors' fees and director and officer liability insurance costs, registrar and transfer agent fees and listing fees, as well as other expenses. As a public company, we are required, among other things, to define and expand the roles and the duties of our Board of Directors (\"Board\") and its committees and institute more comprehensive compliance and investor relations functions.. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. Preparing our consolidated financial statements involves a number of complex manual and automated processes, which are dependent upon individual data input or review and require significant management judgment. One or more of these elements may result in errors that may not be detected and could result in a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements. If a material misstatement occurs in the future, we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations. For example, we may fail to file periodic reports in a timely manner or may need to restate our financial results, either of which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. In addition, our WD Services business is subject to the European Union's and other countries' data security and protection laws and regulations, which may make it more difficult for the Company to maintain the records and internal accounting practices necessary to ensure the appropriate operation of our internal controls or to detect corruption or increasing the Company's costs to maintain appropriate controls.. If the accounting estimates we make, and the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may be adversely affected.. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments about, among other things, taxes, revenue recognition, contingent obligations, NET Services transportation expense, recoverability of long-lived assets and doubtful accounts.  In addition, our foreign operations report their results pursuant to International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS, or local accounting standards, which requires judgment to convert into GAAP.  Lastly, the implementation of ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which is effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2018, requires a significant level of judgment and estimation, especially in regards to contingent or success-based payments, such as those prevalent at WD Services.  These estimates and judgments affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances and at the time they are made. If our estimates or the assumptions underlying them are not correct, we may need to accrue additional charges or reduce the value of assets that could adversely affect our results of operations, leading to a loss in investor confidence in our ability to manage our business and our stock price could decline.. 34. Anti-takeover provisions in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company and may affect the trading price of our Common Stock.. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include a number of provisions that may be deemed to have anti-takeover effects, which include when and by whom special meetings of our stockholders may be called, and may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Such provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our Common Stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Common Stock if the provisions are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions may facilitate management entrenchment that may delay, deter, render more difficult or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders.. We do not expect to pay dividends on our Common Stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our Common Stock.. We currently do not expect to declare and pay dividends on our Common Stock for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth, to develop our business, for working capital needs and for general corporate purposes. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your Common Stock for the foreseeable future and the success of an investment in shares of our Common Stock will depend upon any future appreciation in their value. There is no guarantee that shares of our Common Stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares."
