[1] "Item 1A.     Risk Factors. Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties.  The most significant of these risks include those described below; however, there may be additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial.  If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.  These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the other documents that we file from time-to-time with the SEC.. Our markets are highly competitive.. We operate in highly competitive geographic and product markets.  Numerous brands and products compete for limited retailer shelf space, where competition is based on product quality, brand recognition, brand loyalty, price, product innovation, promotional activity, availability and taste among other things.  Retailers also market competitive products under their own private labels, which are generally sold at lower prices and compete with some of our products.. Some of our markets are dominated by multinational corporations with greater resources and more substantial operations than us.  We may not be able to successfully compete for sales to distributors or retailers that purchase from larger competitors that have greater financial, managerial, sales and technical resources.  Conventional food companies, including but not limited to Campbell Soup Company, Mondelez International, Inc., General Mills, Inc., Groupe Danone, The J.M. Smucker Company, Kellogg Company, The Kraft Heinz Company, Nestle S.A., PepsiCo, Inc., The Hershey Company, Conagra Brands, Inc., Pinnacle Foods, Inc., and Unilever PLC, and conventional personal care products companies, including but not limited to The Procter & Gamble Company, Johnson & Johnson and Colgate-Palmolive Company, may be able to use their resources and scale to respond to competitive pressures and changes in consumer preferences by introducing new products or reformulating their existing products, reducing prices or increasing promotional activities.  We also compete with other organic and natural packaged food brands and companies, which may be more innovative and able to bring new products to market faster and may be better able to quickly exploit and serve niche markets.  As a result of actual or perceived conflicts resulting from this competition, retailers may take actions that negatively affect us.  Consequently, we may need to increase our marketing, advertising and promotional spending to protect our existing market share, which may result in an adverse impact on our profitability.. Our growth and continued success depend upon consumer preferences for our products, which could change.. Our business is primarily focused on sales of organic, natural and \"better-for-you\" products which, if consumer demand for such categories were to decrease, could harm our business.  While we continue to diversify our product offerings, developing new products entails risks, and demand for our products may not continue at current levels or increase in the future.  The success of our innovation and product improvement effort is affected by our ability to anticipate changes in consumers' preferences, the level of funding that can be made available, the technical capability of our research and development staff in developing, formulating and testing product prototypes, including complying with governmental regulations, and the success of our management in introducing the resulting improvements in a timely manner.  In addition, we may see a substantial shift in consumption towards the e-commerce channel. Typically, products sold via the e-commerce channel have lower margins than those sold in traditional brick and mortar retailers and present unique challenges in order fulfillment.  If we are unsuccessful in implementing product improvements or introducing new products that satisfy the demands of consumers, our business could be harmed.. In addition, we have other product categories that are subject to evolving consumer preferences.  Consumer demand could change based on a number of possible factors, including dietary habits and nutritional values, concerns regarding the health effects of ingredients and shifts in preference for various product attributes.  A significant shift in consumer demand away from our products could reduce the sales of our brands or our market share, both of which could harm our business.. Consolidation of customers or the loss of a significant customer could negatively impact our sales and profitability.. Our growth and continued success depend upon, among other things, our ability to maintain and increase sales volumes with existing customers, our ability to attract new customers, the financial condition of our customers and our ability to provide products that appeal to customers at the right price.  Customers, such as supermarkets and food distributors in North America and the European Union, continue to consolidate.  This consolidation has produced larger, more sophisticated organizations with increased negotiating and buying power that are able to resist price increases or demand increased promotional programs, as well as operate with lower inventories, decrease the number of brands that they carry and increase their emphasis on private label products, which. 14. Table of Contents. could negatively impact our business.  The consolidation of retail customers also increases the risk that a significant adverse impact on their business could have a corresponding material adverse impact on our business.. Two of our customers each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net sales in each of the last three fiscal years, respectively. United Natural Foods, Inc., a distributor of products to natural foods supermarkets, independent natural retailers and other supermarkets and retailers, accounted for approximately 11%, 11% and 12% of our consolidated net sales for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively, which were primarily related to the United States segment.  Likewise, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, Sam's Club and ASDA, together accounted for approximately 11%, 12%, and 12% of our consolidated net sales for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, which were primarily related to the United States and United Kingdom segments.. The loss of any large customer, the reduction of purchasing levels or the cancellation of any business from a large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profitability.. We rely on independent distributors for a substantial portion of our sales.. In our United States segment, we rely upon sales made by or through a group of non-affiliated distributors to customers.  Distributors purchase directly for their own account for resale.  The loss of, or business disruption at, one or more of these distributors may harm our business.  If we are required to obtain additional or alternative distribution agreements or arrangements in the future, we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so on satisfactory terms or in a timely manner.  Our inability to enter into satisfactory distribution agreements may inhibit our ability to implement our business plan or to establish markets necessary to successfully expand the distribution of our products.. Disruptions in the worldwide economy and the financial markets may adversely impact our business and results of operations.. Adverse and uncertain economic and market conditions, particularly in the locations in which we operate, may impact customer and consumer demand for our products and our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors.  Consumers may shift purchases to lower-priced or other perceived value offerings during economic downturns, which may adversely affect our results of operations.  Consumers may also reduce the number of organic and natural products that they purchase where there are conventional alternatives, given that organic and natural products generally have higher retail prices than do their conventional counterparts.  In addition, consumers may choose to purchase private label products rather than branded products, which generally have lower retail prices than do their branded counterparts.  Distributors and retailers may also become more conservative in response to these conditions and seek to reduce their inventories.. Prolonged unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse effect on any of these factors and, therefore, could adversely impact our sales and profitability.. We are subject to risks associated with our international sales and operations, including foreign currency, compliance and trade risks.. Operating in international markets involves exposure to movements in currency exchange rates, which are volatile at times.  The economic impact of currency exchange rate movements is complex because such changes are often linked to variability in real growth, inflation, interest rates, governmental actions and other factors.  Consequently, isolating the effect of changes in currency does not incorporate these other important economic factors.  These changes, if material, could cause adjustments to our financing and operating strategies.. We hold assets, incur liabilities, earn revenue and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the United States Dollar, primarily the British Pound, the Euro, the Canadian Dollar and the Indian Rupee.  Our consolidated financial statements are presented in United States Dollars, and therefore we must translate our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into United States Dollars for external reporting purposes.  As a result, changes in the value of the United States Dollar during a period may unpredictably and adversely impact our consolidated operating results, our asset and liability balances and our cash flows in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency.. During fiscal 2018, 53% of our consolidated net sales were generated outside the United States, while such sales outside the United States were 50% of net sales in 2017 and 48% in 2016.   Sales from outside our U.S. markets may continue to represent a significant portion of our total net sales in the future, especially as we look to expand our operations into new countries.  Our non-U.S. sales and operations are subject to risks inherent in conducting business abroad, many of which are outside our control, including:. 15. Table of Contents. • periodic economic downturns and the instability of governments, including default or deterioration in the credit worthiness of local governments, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption, expropriation and other economic or political uncertainties;. • difficulties in managing a global enterprise, including staffing, collecting accounts receivable and managing distributors;. • compliance with U.S. laws affecting operations outside of the United States, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices  Act and the Office of Foreign Asset Control trade sanction regulations and anti-boycott regulations;. • difficulties associated with operating under a wide variety of complex foreign laws, treaties and regulations, including. compliance with antitrust and competition laws, anti-modern slavery laws, anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, data privacy laws, including the European Union General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), and a variety of other local, national and multi-national regulations and laws in multiple regimes;. • tariffs, quotas, trade barriers or sanctions, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements imposed by governments that might negatively affect our sales, including, but not limited to, Canadian and European Union tariffs imposed on certain U.S. food and beverages;. • pandemics, such as the flu, which may adversely affect our workforce as well as our local suppliers and customers;. • earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or other major disasters that may limit the supply of products that we purchase abroad;. • varying regulatory, tax, judicial and administrative practices in the jurisdictions where we operate, including changes in tax laws, interpretation of tax laws, tax audit outcomes and potentially burdensome taxation;. • changes in capital controls, including price and currency exchange controls;. • discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies;. • varying abilities to enforce intellectual property and contractual rights;. • greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles;. • design and implementation of effective control environment processes across our diverse operations and employee base;. • foreign currency exchange and transfer restrictions;. • increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; and. • differing labor standards.. In addition, the results of the referendum relating to the membership of the United Kingdom in the European Union (\"Brexit\"), advising for the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union, has caused and may continue to cause disruptions to and create uncertainty surrounding our business, including affecting our relationships with our existing and future customers, suppliers and employees, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial results and operations.  The effects of Brexit will depend on any agreements the United Kingdom makes to retain access to European Union markets either during a transitional period or more permanently.  The measures could potentially disrupt the markets we serve and the tax jurisdictions in which we operate, adversely change tax benefits or liabilities in these or other jurisdictions and may cause us to lose customers, suppliers and employees. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the United Kingdom determines which European Union laws to replace or replicate.. If we do not manage our supply chain effectively, our operating results may be adversely affected.. The success of our business depends, in part, on maintaining a strong sourcing and manufacturing platform.  The inability of any supplier of raw materials, independent co-packer or third party distributor to deliver or perform for us in a timely or cost-effective manner could cause our operating costs to increase and our profit margins to decrease, especially as it relates to our products that have a short shelf life.  We must continuously monitor our inventory and product mix against forecasted demand or risk having inadequate supplies to meet consumer demand as well as having too much inventory on hand that may reach its expiration date and become unsaleable.  If we are unable to manage our supply chain efficiently and ensure that our products are available to meet consumer demand, our operating costs could increase, and our profit margins could decrease.. Our future results of operations may be adversely affected by volatile commodity costs.. Many aspects of our business have been, and may continue to be, directly affected by volatile commodity costs, including fuel.  Agricultural commodities and ingredients, including almonds, corn, dairy, fruit and vegetables, oils, rice, soybeans and wheat, are the principal inputs used in our products.  These items are subject to price volatility which can be caused by commodity market fluctuations, crop yields, seasonal cycles, weather conditions (including the potential effects of climate change), temperature extremes and natural disasters (including floods, droughts, water scarcity, frosts, earthquakes and hurricanes), pest and disease problems, changes in currency exchange rates, imbalances between supply and demand, natural disasters and government programs and policies among other factors.  Volatile fuel costs translate into unpredictable costs for the products and services we receive from our third party providers including, but not limited to, distribution costs for our products and packaging costs.  While we seek to offset the volatility of such costs with a combination of cost savings initiatives, operating efficiencies and price increases to our customers, we may be unable to manage cost volatility.  If we are unable to fully offset the volatility of such costs, our financial results could be adversely affected.. 16. Table of Contents. Our ability to offset the impact of cost input inflation on our operations is partially dependent on our ability to implement and achieve targeted savings and efficiencies from cost reduction initiatives.. We continuously seek to put in place initiatives that are designed to control or reduce costs or that increase operating efficiencies in order to improve our profitability and offset many of the input cost increases that are outside of our control.  For example, as discussed above, during fiscal 2016, the Company commenced a strategic review called \"Project Terra,\" of which a key initiative is the identification of global cost savings, as well as removing complexities from the business.  Under this plan, the Company aims to achieve $350 million in global savings by fiscal 2020, a portion of which the Company intends to reinvest into its brands.  This review includes streamlining of the Company's manufacturing plants, co-packers, and supply chain.  Our success depends on our ability to execute and realize cost savings and efficiencies from our operations.  If we are unable to identify and fully implement our productivity plans and achieve our anticipated efficiencies, including with respect to Project Terra, our profitability may be adversely impacted.. Our profit margins also depend on our ability to manage our inventory efficiently.  As part of our effort to manage our inventory more efficiently, we carry out SKU rationalization programs from time-to-time, which may result in the discontinuation of numerous lower-margin or low-turnover SKUs.  For example, as part of the Project Terra review, the Company has carried out product rationalization initiatives aimed at eliminating slow moving SKUs or brands entirely.  However, a number of factors, such as changes in customers' inventory levels, access to shelf space and changes in consumer preferences, may lengthen the number of days we carry certain inventories, which may impede our effort to manage our inventory efficiently and thereby increase our costs.. We have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting.  If we are unable to remediate this material weakness, or if we experience additional material weaknesses or deficiencies in the future or otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, our business may be harmed.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting and for evaluating and reporting on our system of internal control.  Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  As a public company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules that govern public companies.  In particular, we are required to certify our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires us to furnish annually a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.  In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.. In connection with our most recent year-end assessment of internal control over financial reporting, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2018, which represents a component of the material weakness previously identified by the Company in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017.  For a discussion of our internal control over financial reporting and a description of the identified material weakness, see Part II, Item 9A, \"Controls and Procedures.\". As further described in Item 9A \"Controls and Procedures - Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and Remediation of the Material Weakness in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting,\" we have undertaken steps to improve our internal control over financial reporting.  We expect that we will continue to improve certain existing operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and implement new ones, to manage our future business effectively.  Any implementation delays, or disruption in the transition to new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to forecast sales, manage our supply chain and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis.. Ineffective internal controls could impact the Company's business and financial results.. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of their inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain adequate internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations and our business, financial results and reputation could be harmed.. Legal claims, government investigations or other regulatory enforcement actions could subject us to civil and criminal penalties.. 17. Table of Contents. We operate in a highly regulated environment with constantly evolving legal and regulatory frameworks. Consequently, we are subject to a heightened risk of legal claims, government investigations and other regulatory enforcement actions. We are subject to extensive regulations in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Europe, Asia, including India, and any other countries where we manufacture, distribute and/or sell our products.  Our products are subject to numerous food safety and other laws and regulations relating to the sourcing, manufacturing, storing, labeling, marketing, advertising and distribution of these products. Enforcement of existing laws and regulations, changes in legal requirements and/or evolving interpretations of existing regulatory requirements may result in increased compliance costs and create other obligations, financial or otherwise, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results.. In addition, with our expanding international operations, we could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials or other third parties for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with existing laws and regulations, we cannot provide any assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies and procedures.. Moreover, a failure to maintain effective control processes could lead to violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. Legal claims, government investigations or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our product sales, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, the costs and other effects of defending potential and pending litigation and administrative actions against us may be difficult to determine and could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. Pending and future litigation may lead us to incur significant costs.. We are, or may become, party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business, which may include lawsuits or claims relating to contracts, intellectual property, product recalls, product liability, the marketing and labeling of products, employment matters, environmental matters, data protection or other aspects of our business as well as any securities class action and stockholder derivative litigation. For example, as discussed under Item 3, \"Legal Proceedings\", we are currently subject to class actions and derivative complaints arising out of or related to the Company's internal accounting review.  Even when not merited, the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. The results of litigation and other legal proceedings are inherently uncertain, and adverse judgments or settlements in some or all of these legal disputes may result in adverse monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. Any claims or litigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to compete effectively or to obtain adequate insurance in the future.. We may be subject to significant liability that is not covered by insurance, and our potential indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance could result in significant legal expenses or damages and cause our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows to suffer.. While we believe that the extent of our insurance coverage is consistent with industry practice, any claim under our insurance policies may be subject to certain exceptions as well as caps on amounts recoverable, may not be honored fully, in a timely manner, or at all, and we may not have purchased sufficient insurance to cover all losses incurred. Separate from potential indemnification obligations, if we were to incur substantial liabilities or if our business operations were interrupted for a substantial period of time, we could incur costs and suffer losses. Such inventory and business interruption losses may not be covered by our insurance policies. Additionally, in the future, insurance coverage may not be available to us at commercially acceptable premiums, or at all.. In addition, both current and former officers and members of our Board of Directors, as individual defendants, are the subject of lawsuits related to the Company. Under Delaware law, our bylaws and certain indemnification agreements, we may have an obligation to indemnify both current and former officers and directors in relation to these matters, and our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all of the costs associated with these claims. If the Company incurs significant uninsured indemnity obligations, our indemnity obligations could result in significant legal expenses or damages and cause our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow to suffer.. Our success may depend on the continued service and availability of key personnel.. On June 25, 2018, the Company announced a Chief Executive Officer succession plan, whereby, upon the hiring of a new Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Irwin Simon, the Company's Founder, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, will. 18. Table of Contents. become Non-Executive Chairman of the Board for a transition period to work closely with the incoming Chief Executive Officer.  Since its founding, the Company has benefitted from Mr. Simon's more than 25 years of expertise and knowledge in the organic and natural foods industry, as well as his relationships with customers and suppliers.  We expect that the recently implemented succession plan will allow leadership to gain valuable, competitive industry insight through working closely with Mr. Simon and provide the Company an opportunity for continued success and leadership in the manufacturing and retail of natural and organic products.. The Board of Directors has engaged a leading global executive search firm to assist the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee in identifying a successor for the role of President and Chief Executive Officer; however, if a strong candidate cannot be identified, the implementation of our strategic objectives and execution of our business transformation could be at risk.  Our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to successfully execute our succession plan and continue to attract and retain qualified employees.  Additionally, if we lose one or more members of our senior management team, our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be harmed.. We may be subject to significant liability should the consumption of any of our products cause illness or physical harm.. The sale of products for human use and consumption involves the risk of injury or illness to consumers.  Such injuries may result from inadvertent mislabeling, tampering by unauthorized third parties or product contamination or spoilage.  Under certain circumstances, we may be required to recall or withdraw products, suspend production of our products or cease operations, which may lead to a material adverse effect on our business.  In addition, customers may cancel orders for such products as a result of such events.  Even if a situation does not necessitate a recall or market withdrawal, product liability claims might be asserted against us.  While we are subject to governmental inspection and regulations and believe our facilities and those of our co-packers and suppliers comply in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations, if the consumption of any of our products causes, or is alleged to have caused, a health-related illness, we may become subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters.  Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or physical harm, could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and consumers and our corporate and brand image.   Moreover, claims or liabilities of this type might not be covered by our insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have against others.  Although we maintain product liability and product recall insurance in an amount that we believe to be adequate, we may incur claims or liabilities for which we are not insured or that exceed the amount of our insurance coverage.  A product liability judgment against us or a product recall could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets could materially and adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and net worth.. As of June 30, 2018, we had goodwill of $1.02 billion and trademarks and other intangibles assets of $510.4 million, which represented 52% of our total consolidated assets.   The net carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date (or subsequent impairment date, if applicable).  The net carrying value of trademarks and other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, customer relationships and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date (or subsequent impairment date, if applicable), net of accumulated amortization.  Goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment.  Amortized intangible assets are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be recoverable.  Impairments to goodwill and other intangible assets may be caused by factors outside our control, such as increasing competitive pricing pressures, changes in discount rates based on changes in cost of capital (interest rates, etc.), lower than expected sales and profit growth rates, changes in industry Earnings Before Interest Taxes Depreciation and Amortization (\"EBITDA\") multiples, the inability to quickly replace lost co-manufacturing business, or the bankruptcy of a significant customer.  We have in the past recorded, and may in the future be required to record, significant charges in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets is determined.  The incurrence of impairment charges could negatively affect our results of operations and adversely impact our net worth and our consolidated earnings in the period of such charge.. 19. Table of Contents. Our acquisition strategy exposes us to risk, including our ability to integrate the brands that we acquire.. We may continue to grow our business in part through the acquisition of brands, both in the United States and internationally.  Our acquisition strategy is based on identifying and acquiring brands with products that complement our existing product mix and identifying and acquiring brands in new categories and in new geographies for purposes of expanding our business internationally.  We may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate acquisitions of identified candidates on terms acceptable to us or integrate acquisitions that we complete.. We may encounter increased competition for acquisitions in the future, which could result in acquisition prices we do not consider acceptable.  We are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisition candidate will become available or the likelihood that any acquisition will be completed.  Furthermore, acquisition-related costs are required to be expensed as incurred even though the acquisition may not be completed.. The success of our acquisitions will be dependent upon our ability to effectively integrate those brands, including our ability to realize potentially available marketing opportunities and cost savings, some of which may involve operational changes.  Despite our due diligence investigation of each business that we acquire, there may be liabilities of the acquired companies that we fail to or are unable to discover during the diligence process and for which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible.  We cannot be certain:. • as to the timing or number of marketing opportunities or amount of cost savings that may be realized as the result of our integration of an acquired brand;. • that a business combination will enhance our competitive position and business prospects;. • that we will be able to coordinate a greater number of diverse businesses and businesses located in a greater number of geographic locations;. • that we will not experience difficulties with customers, personnel or other parties as a result of a business combination;. • that disputes with sellers will not arise; or. • that, with respect to our acquisitions outside the United States, we will not be affected by, among other things, exchange rate risk and risks associated with local regulatory regimes.. Companies or brands acquired may not achieve the level of sales or profitability that justify the investment made.  We may determine to discontinue products if, among other reasons, they do not meet our standards for quality or profitability or both, which may have a material adverse effect on sales relating to such acquisition.. We may not be successful in:. • integrating an acquired brand's distribution channels with our own;. • coordinating sales force activities of an acquired brand or in selling the products of an acquired brand to our customer base; or. • integrating an acquired brand into our management information systems or integrating an acquired brand's products into our product mix.. Additionally, integrating an acquired brand into our existing operations will require management resources and may divert management's attention from our day-to-day operations.  We may not respond quickly enough to the changing demands that acquired companies or brands will impose on management and our existing infrastructure, and changes to our operating structure may result in increased costs or inefficiencies that we cannot currently anticipate.  Changes as a result of our growth may have a negative impact on the operation of our business, and cost increases resulting from our inability to effectively manage our growth could adversely impact our profitability.  If we are not successful in integrating the operations of acquired brands, our business could be harmed.. We may not be able to successfully consummate proposed divestitures.. We may, from time to time, divest businesses that become less of a strategic fit within our core portfolio.  Our profitability may be impacted by gains or losses on the sales of such businesses, or lost operating income or cash flows from such businesses.  Additionally, we may be required to record, and have in the past recorded, asset impairment or restructuring charges related to divested businesses.  Similarly, we may be obliged to indemnify buyers for liabilities, which may reduce our profitability and cash flows.  We may also not be able to negotiate such divestitures on terms acceptable to us.  Such potential divestitures will require management resources and may divert management's attention from our day-to-day operations.  If we are not successful in divesting such businesses, our business could be harmed.. 20. Table of Contents. Our future results of operations may be adversely affected by the availability of organic ingredients.. Our ability to ensure a continuing supply of organic ingredients at competitive prices depends on many factors beyond our control, such as the number and size of farms that grow organic crops, climate conditions, increased demand for organic ingredients by our competitors, changes in national and world economic conditions, currency fluctuations and forecasting adequate need of seasonal ingredients.. The organic ingredients that we use in the production of our products (including, among others, fruits, vegetables, nuts and grains) are vulnerable to adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, such as floods, droughts, water scarcity, temperature extremes, frosts, earthquakes and pestilences.  Natural disasters and adverse weather conditions (including the potential effects of climate change) can lower crop yields and reduce crop size and crop quality, which in turn could reduce our supplies of organic ingredients or increase the prices of organic ingredients.  If our supplies of organic ingredients are reduced, we may not be able to find enough supplemental supply sources on favorable terms, if at all, which could impact our ability to supply product to our customers and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We also compete with other manufacturers in the procurement of organic product ingredients, which may be less plentiful in the open market than conventional product ingredients.  This competition may increase in the future if consumer demand for organic products increases.  This could cause our expenses to increase or could limit the amount of products that we can manufacture and sell.. Interruption in, disruption of or loss of operations at one or more of our manufacturing facilities could harm our business.. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2018, 2017 and 2016, approximately 58%, 59% and 59%, respectively, of our net sales was derived from products manufactured at our own manufacturing facilities.  An interruption in, disruption of or the loss of operations at one or more of these facilities, which may be caused by work stoppages, governmental actions, disease outbreaks or pandemics, acts of war, terrorism, fire, earthquakes, flooding or other natural disasters at one or more of these facilities, could delay or postpone production of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition until such time as the interruption of operations is resolved or an alternate source of production is secured.  In addition, if one or more of our manufacturing facilities are running at full capacity and we are unable to keep up with customer demand, we may not be able to fulfill orders on time or at all which could adversely impact our business.. Loss of one or more of our independent co-packers could adversely affect our business.. During fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, approximately 42%, 41% and 41%, respectively, of our net sales were derived from products manufactured at independent co-packers.   In some cases, an individual co-packer may produce all of our requirements for a particular brand.  We believe there are a limited number of competent, high-quality co-packers in the industry, and many of our co-packers produce products for other companies as well.  Therefore, if we lose or need to change one or more co-packers, experience disruptions or delays at a co-packer or fail to retain co-packers for newly acquired products or brands, production of our products may be delayed or postponed and/or the availability of some of our products may be reduced or eliminated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Disruption of our transportation systems could harm our business.. The success of our business depends, in large part, upon dependable and cost effective transportation systems and a strong distribution network.  A disruption in transportation services could result in an inability to supply materials to our or our co-packers' facilities or finished products to our distribution centers or customers.  We utilize distribution centers that are managed by third parties.  Activity at these distribution centers could be disrupted by a number of factors, including labor issues, failure to meet customer standards, acts of war, terrorism, fire, earthquakes, flooding or other natural disasters or bankruptcy or other financial issues affecting the third party providers.  Any extended disruption in the distribution of our products or an increase in the cost of these services could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may face difficulties as we expand our operations into countries in which we have no prior operating experience.. We intend to continue to expand our global footprint in order to enter into new markets.  This may involve expanding into countries other than those in which we currently operate.  It may involve expanding into less developed countries, which may have less political, social or economic stability and less developed infrastructure and legal systems.  Continued international expansion of our business may involve the sale of products across international borders through the channel of e-commerce. The operation of an international business in e-commerce may present challenges relating to compliance with regulatory standards of countries. 21. Table of Contents. where orders are originated, as well as changing standards and practices relating to intellectual property and the collection of consumer data.  It is costly to establish, develop and maintain international operations and develop and promote our brands in international markets.  As we expand our business into new countries, we may encounter regulatory, personnel, technological and other difficulties that increase our expenses or delay our ability to become profitable in such countries, which may have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our inability to use our trademarks could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We believe that brand awareness is a significant component in a consumer's decision to purchase one product over another in the highly competitive food, beverage and personal care industries.  Although we endeavor to protect our trademarks and trade names, these efforts may not be successful, and third parties may challenge our right to use one or more of our trademarks or trade names. We believe that our trademarks and trade names are significant to the marketing and sale of our products and that the inability to utilize certain of these names could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, we market products under brands licensed under trademark license agreements, including Linda McCartney's\231, the Sesame Street name and logo and other Sesame Workshop intellectual property on certain of our Earth's Best® products.  We believe that these trademarks have significant value and are instrumental in our ability to market and sustain demand for those product offerings.  We cannot assure you that these trademark license agreements will remain in effect and enforceable or that any license agreements, upon expiration, can be renewed on acceptable terms or at all.  In addition, any future disputes concerning these trademark license agreements may cause us to incur significant litigation costs or force us to suspend use of the disputed trademarks and suspend sales of products using such trademarks.. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations relating to hazardous materials, substances and waste used in or resulting from our operations.  Liabilities or claims with respect to environmental matters could have a significant negative impact on our business.. As with other companies engaged in similar businesses, the nature of our operations expose us to the risk of liabilities and claims with respect to environmental matters, including those relating to the disposal and release of hazardous substances.  Furthermore, our operations are governed by laws and regulations relating to workplace safety and worker health, which, among other things, regulate employee exposure to hazardous chemicals in the workplace.  Any material costs incurred in connection with such liabilities or claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.  Any environmental or health and safety legislation or regulations enacted in the future, or any changes in how existing or future laws or regulations will be enforced, administered or interpreted, may lead to an increase in compliance costs or expose us to additional risk of liabilities and claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. If the reputation of one or more of our leading brands erodes significantly, it could have a material impact on our results of operations.. Our financial success is directly dependent on the consumer perception of our brands.  The success of our brands may suffer if our marketing plans or product initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand's image or its ability to attract consumers.  Further, our results could be negatively impacted if one of our brands suffers substantial damage to its reputation due to real or perceived quality issues or the Company is perceived to act in an irresponsible manner.  In addition, it is possible for such information, misperceptions and opinions to be shared quickly and disseminated widely due to the continued growing use of social and digital media.. We rely on independent certification for a number of our products.. We rely on independent third party certification, such as certifications of our products as \"organic\", \"Non-GMO\" or \"kosher,\" to differentiate our products from others.  We must comply with the requirements of independent organizations or certification authorities in order to label our products as certified organic.  For example, we can lose our \"organic\" certification if a manufacturing plant becomes contaminated with non-organic materials, or if it is not properly cleaned after a production run. In addition, all raw materials must be certified organic.  Similarly, we can lose our \"kosher\" certification if a manufacturing plant and raw materials do not meet the requirements of the appropriate kosher supervision organization.  The loss of any independent certifications could adversely affect our market position as an organic and natural products company, which could harm our business.. A cybersecurity incident or other technology disruptions could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers.. 22. Table of Contents. We use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations.  We also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our employees, suppliers, customers and consumers.  Such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information.  Our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers' and suppliers' information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the Company and its business partners.  Further, as we grow through acquisitions and pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, we are also expanding and improving our information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and increased exposure to cybersecurity risk.  If we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks.  Additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective.  The theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, litigation, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our business operations could be disrupted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately.. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems.  We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage our business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment, and other business processes.  The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer.  In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, system failures and viruses.  Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Compliance with data privacy laws may be costly, and non-compliance with such laws may result in significant liability.. Many jurisdictions in which the Company operates have laws and regulations relating to data privacy and protection of personal information, including the European Union GDPR, which became effective May 25, 2018. GDPR requires companies to satisfy new requirements regarding the handling of personal data. Failure to comply with GDPR requirements could result in litigation, adverse publicity and penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. The law in this area continues to develop, and the changing nature of privacy laws in the European Union and elsewhere could impact the Company's processing of personal information related to the Company's employees, consumers, customers and vendors.  The enactment of more restrictive laws, rules or regulations or future enforcement actions or investigations could impact us through increased costs or restrictions on our business, and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties and significant liability.. Joint ventures that we enter into present a number of risks and challenges that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. As part of our business strategy, we have made minority interest investments and established joint ventures.  These transactions typically involve a number of risks and present financial and other challenges, including the existence of unknown potential disputes, liabilities or contingencies and changes in the industry, location or political environment in which these investments are located, that may arise after entering into such arrangements.  We could experience financial or other setbacks if these transactions encounter unanticipated problems, including problems related to execution by the management of the companies underlying these investments.  Any of these risks could adversely affect our results of operations.. Global capital and credit market issues could negatively affect our liquidity, increase our costs of borrowing and disrupt the operations of our suppliers and customers.. We depend on stable, liquid and well-functioning capital and credit markets to fund our operations.  Although we believe that our operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital and credit markets and revolving credit agreement will permit us to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future, future volatility or disruption in the capital and credit markets and the state of the economy, including the consumer staples industry, may impair our liquidity or increase our costs of borrowing.  Such disruptions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged.  Our business could also be negatively impacted if our suppliers or customers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets or a slowdown in the general economy.. Climate change may negatively affect our business and operations.. 23. Table of Contents. There is concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters.  In the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as corn, oats, rice, wheat and various fruits and vegetables.  As a result of climate change, we may also be subjected to decreased availability of water, deteriorated quality of water or less favorable pricing for water, which could adversely impact our manufacturing and distribution operations.. Our ability to issue preferred stock may deter takeover attempts.. Our Board of Directors is empowered to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with dividends, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, which could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to holders of our common stock and adversely affect the relative voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock.  In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be used as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 5 million shares of \"blank check\" preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time-to-time by our Board of Directors.  Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of our preferred stock, we may do so in the future under appropriate circumstances."
