[1] "ITEM  1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business is subject to risks. The following important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or printed elsewhere by management from time to time.. 11. Our results of operations could be negatively affected by global and regional economic conditions.. Global and regional economic conditions may affect our clients' businesses and the markets they serve. A substantial or prolonged economic downturn, weak or uncertain economic conditions or similar factors could adversely affect our clients' financial condition which may reduce our clients' demand for our services, force price reductions, cause project cancellations, or delay consulting services for which they have engaged us. In addition, if we are unable to successfully anticipate the changing economic conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected.. Our quarterly operating results may vary.. Our financial results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter in any given year and should not be used to predict future performance. In future quarters, our operating results may not meet analysts' and investors' expectations. If that happens, the price of our common stock may fall. Many factors can cause fluctuations in our financial results, including:. •  number, size, timing and scope of client engagements;. •  customer concentration;. •  long and unpredictable sales cycles;. •  contract terms of client engagements;. •  degrees of completion of client engagements;. •  client engagement delays or cancellations;. •  competition for and utilization of employees;. •  how well we estimate the resources and effort we need to complete client engagements;. •  the integration of acquired businesses;. •  pricing changes in the industry;. •  economic conditions specific to business and information technology consulting; and. •  global economic conditions.. A high percentage of our operating expenses, particularly personnel and rent, are fixed in advance of any particular quarter. As a result, if we experience unanticipated changes in client engagements or in consultant utilization rates, we could experience large variations in quarterly operating results and losses in any particular quarter. Due to these factors, we believe our quarter-to-quarter operating results should not be used to predict future performance.. If we are unable to maintain our reputation and expand our brand name recognition, we may have difficulty attracting new business and retaining current clients and employees.. We believe that establishing and maintaining a good reputation and name recognition are critical for attracting and retaining clients and employees in our industry. We also believe that the importance of reputation and name recognition will continue to increase due to the number of providers of business consulting and IT services. If our reputation is damaged or if potential clients are not familiar with us or with the solutions we provide, we may be unable to attract new, or retain existing, clients and employees. Promotion and enhancement of our name will depend largely on our success in continuing to provide effective solutions. If clients do not perceive our solutions to be effective or of high quality, our brand name and reputation will suffer. In addition, if solutions we provide have defects, critical business functions of our clients may fail, and we could suffer adverse publicity as well as economic liability.. We depend heavily on a limited number of clients.. We have derived, and believe that we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of clients for which we perform large projects. In 2017, our ten largest clients accounted for 21% of our aggregate revenue. In addition, revenue from a large client may constitute a significant portion of our total revenue in any particular quarter. Our customer contracts generally can be cancelled for convenience by the customer upon 30 days' notice. The loss of any of our large clients for any reason, including as a result of the acquisition of that client by another entity, our failure to meet that client's expectations, the client's decision to reduce spending on technology-related projects, or failure to collect amounts owed to us from our client could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have risks associated with potential acquisitions or investments.. Since our inception, we have expanded through acquisitions. In the future, we plan to pursue additional acquisitions as opportunities arise. We may not be able to successfully integrate businesses which we may acquire in the future without substantial. 12. expense, delays or other operational or financial problems. We may not be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional businesses. Also, acquisitions may involve a number of risks, including:. •  diversion of management's attention;. •  failure to retain key personnel;. •  failure to retain existing clients;. •  unanticipated events or circumstances;. •  unknown claims or liabilities;. •  amortization of certain acquired intangible assets; and. •  operating in new or unfamiliar geographies.. Client dissatisfaction or performance problems at a single acquired business could have a material adverse impact on our reputation as a whole. Further, we cannot assure you that our future acquired businesses will generate anticipated revenue or earnings.. Difficulties in integrating businesses we acquire in the future may demand time and attention from our senior management.. Integrating businesses that we acquire in the future may involve unanticipated delays, costs and/or other operational and financial problems. In integrating acquired businesses, we may not achieve expected economies of scale or profitability, or realize sufficient revenue to justify our investment. If we encounter unexpected problems as we try to integrate an acquired firm into our business, our management may be required to expend time and attention to address the problems, which would divert their time and attention from other aspects of our business.. Our markets are highly competitive.. We may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors. The business consulting and IT services markets are highly competitive. We expect competition to further intensify as these markets continue to evolve. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, larger client bases, longer relationships with their clients, greater brand or name recognition and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be in a stronger position to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in client requirements and to devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion and sale of their services. Competitors could lower their prices, potentially forcing us to lower our prices and suffer reduced operating margins. We face competition from international accounting firms; international, national and regional strategic consulting and systems implementation firms; and the IT services divisions of application software firms.. In addition, there are relatively low barriers to entry into the business consulting and IT services market. We do not own any patented technology that would stop competitors from entering this market and providing services similar to ours. As a result, the emergence of new competitors may pose a threat to our business. Existing or future competitors may develop and offer services that are superior to, or have greater market acceptance, than ours, which could significantly decrease our revenue and the value of your investment.. We may not be able to hire, train, motivate, retain and manage professional staff.. To succeed, we must hire, train, motivate, retain and manage highly skilled employees. Competition for skilled employees who can perform the services we offer is intense. We might not be able to hire enough skilled employees or train, motivate, retain and manage the employees we hire. This could hinder our ability to complete existing client engagements and bid for new ones. Hiring, training, motivating, retaining and managing employees with the skills we need is time-consuming and expensive.. We could lose money on our contracts.. As part of our strategy, from time to time, we enter into capped or fixed-price contracts, in addition to contracts based on payment for time and materials. Because of the complexity of many of our client engagements, accurately estimating the cost, scope and duration of a particular engagement can be a difficult task. We maintain an Office of Risk Management (\"ORM\") that evaluates and attempts to mitigate delivery risk associated with complex projects. In connection with their review, ORM analyzes the critical estimates associated with these projects. If we fail to make these estimates accurately, we could be forced to devote additional resources to these engagements for which we will not receive additional compensation. To the extent that an expenditure of additional resources is required on an engagement, this could reduce the profitability of, or result in a loss on, the engagement. We may be unsuccessful in negotiating with clients regarding changes to the cost, scope or duration of specific engagements. To the extent we do not sufficiently communicate to our clients, or our clients fail to adequately appreciate the nature and extent of any of these types of changes to an engagement, our reputation may be harmed and we may suffer losses on an engagement.. 13. Lack of detailed written contracts could impair our ability to recognize revenue for services performed, collect fees, protect our IP and protect ourselves from liability to others.. We protect ourselves by entering into detailed written contracts with our clients covering the terms and contingencies of the client engagement. In some cases, however, consistent with what we believe to be industry practice, work is performed for clients on the basis of a limited statement of work or verbal agreement before a detailed written contract can be finalized. Revenue is not recognized on a project prior to receiving a signed contract. To the extent that we fail to have detailed written contracts in place, our ability to collect fees, protect our IP and protect ourselves from liability to others may be impaired.. Our corporate governance provisions may deter a financially attractive takeover attempt.. Provisions of our charter and by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition which shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which shareholders would receive a premium for their shares. These provisions include the following:. •  shareholders must comply with advance notice requirements before raising a matter at a meeting of shareholders or nominating a director for election;. •  our Board of Directors is staggered into three classes and the members may be removed only for cause upon the affirmative vote of holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote;. •  we would not be required to hold a special meeting to consider a takeover proposal unless holders of more than a majority of the shares entitled to vote on the matter were to submit a written demand or demands for us to do so; and. •  our Board of Directors may, without obtaining shareholder approval, classify and issue up to 1,250,000 shares of preferred stock with powers, preferences, designations and rights that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us.. We may lose large clients or may not be able to secure targeted follow-on work or client retention rates.. Our client engagements are generally short-term arrangements, and most clients can reduce or cancel their contracts for our services with a 30 days' notice and without penalty. As a result, if we lose a major client or large client engagement, our revenue will be adversely affected. We perform varying amounts of work for specific clients from year to year. A major client in one year may not use our services in another year. In addition, we may derive revenue from a major client that constitutes a large portion of total revenue for particular quarters. If we lose any major clients or any of our clients cancel programs or significantly reduce the scope of a large engagement, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Also, if we fail to collect a large accounts receivable, we could be subjected to significant financial exposure. Consequently, you should not predict or anticipate our future revenue based upon the number of clients we currently have or the number and size of our existing client engagements.. We also derive a portion of our revenue from annual memberships for our Executive Advisory Programs. Our growth prospects therefore depend on our ability to achieve and sustain renewal rates on programs and to successfully launch new programs. Failure to achieve expected renewal rate levels or to successfully launch new programs and services could have an adverse effect on our operating results.. If we are unable to protect our IP rights or infringe on the IP rights of third parties, our business may be harmed.. We rely upon a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of third parties from whom we license IP. Although we enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and limit distribution of proprietary information, there can be no assurance that the steps we have taken in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our IP, or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our IP rights.. Although we believe that our services do not infringe on the IP rights of others and that we have all rights necessary to utilize the IP employed in our business, we are subject to the risk of claims alleging infringement of third-party IP rights. Any claims could require us to spend significant sums in litigation, pay damages, develop non-infringing IP or acquire licenses to the IP that is the subject of asserted infringement.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely.. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially due to:. •  future announcements concerning us or our competitors;. •  quarterly fluctuations in operating results;. •  announcements of acquisitions or technological innovations;. 14. •  changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by analysts; or. •  current market volatility.. In addition, the stock prices of many business and technology services companies fluctuate widely for reasons which may be unrelated to operating results. Fluctuation in the market price of our common stock may impact our ability to finance our operations and retain personnel.. We earn revenue, incur costs and maintain cash balances in multiple currencies, and currency fluctuations could adversely affect our financial results.. We have international operations, where we earn revenue and incur costs in various foreign currencies, primarily the British Pound, the Euro and the Australian Dollar. Doing business in these foreign currencies exposes us to foreign currency risks in numerous areas, including revenue, purchases, payroll and investments. Certain foreign currency exposures are naturally offset within an international business unit, because revenue and costs are denominated in the same foreign currency, and certain cash balances are held in U.S. Dollar denominated accounts. However, due to the increasing size and importance of our international operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could materially impact our results.. Our cash position includes amounts denominated in foreign currencies. We manage our worldwide cash requirements considering available funds from our subsidiaries and the cost effectiveness with which these funds can be accessed. The repatriation of cash balances from certain of our subsidiaries outside the U.S. could have adverse tax consequences and be limited by foreign currency exchange controls. However, those balances are generally available in the local jurisdiction without legal restrictions to fund ordinary business operations. Any fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could materially impact the availability and amount of these funds available for transfer."
