[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. In addition to the risk factors identified under the captions below, the operation and results of our business are subject to risks and uncertainties identified elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as general risks and uncertainties such as those relating to general economic conditions and demand in the market for our products.. Risks Related to Development, Approval and Commercialization of Inclisiran. We are almost entirely dependent on the success of inclisiran, our only significant drug candidate, which is currently in Phase 3 of clinical development, and we cannot be certain that inclisiran will receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized even if we receive regulatory approval.. We currently only commercialize Angiomax, which is subject to generic competition, and we may never be able to develop inclisiran as a marketable product. We expect that a substantial majority of our efforts and expenditures over the next few years will be devoted to inclisiran.. Accordingly, our future business, including the ability to generate revenue, finance our operations and repay our indebtedness, depends almost entirely on the successful development, regulatory approval and commercialization of inclisiran. We cannot be certain that inclisiran will receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized even if we receive regulatory approval. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, sale, marketing and distribution of drug products are and will remain subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the United States and other countries that each have differing regulations. We are not permitted to market inclisiran or any of our drug candidates in the United States until they receive approval of an NDA or BLA from the FDA, or in any foreign countries until they receive the requisite approval from such countries. We have not submitted an NDA or BLA to the FDA or comparable applications to other regulatory authorities. Obtaining approval of an NDA or BLA is an extensive, lengthy, expensive and inherently uncertain process, and the FDA may delay, limit or deny approval of a drug candidate for many reasons, including:. • we may not be able to demonstrate that inclisiran or any other drug candidate is safe and effective as a treatment for our targeted indications to the satisfaction of the FDA;. • the results of our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical or clinical significance required by the FDA for marketing approval;. • a clinical research organization, or CRO, that we retain to conduct clinical trials or any other third parties involved in the conduct of trials may take actions outside of our control that materially adversely impact our clinical trials;. • the FDA may not find the data from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials sufficient to demonstrate that the clinical and other benefits of inclisiran or any other drug candidate outweigh the safety risks;. • the FDA may disagree with our interpretation of data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials or may require that we conduct additional studies or trials;. 20. Table of Contents. • the FDA may not accept data generated at our clinical trial sites;. • if our NDA is reviewed by an advisory committee, the FDA may have difficulties scheduling an advisory committee meeting in a timely manner or the advisory committee may recommend against approval of our application or may recommend that the FDA require, as a condition of approval, additional pre-clinical studies or clinical trials, limitations on approved labeling or distribution and use restrictions;. • the advisory committee may recommend that the FDA require, as a condition of approval, additional pre-clinical studies or clinical trials, limitations on approved labeling or distribution and use restrictions;. • the FDA may require development of a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy as a condition to approval;. • the FDA may identify deficiencies in the manufacturing processes or facilities of our third-party manufacturers; or. • the FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations.. If inclisiran gains regulatory approval, the commercial launch will require significant efforts from us.  Our ability to successfully commercially launch inclisiran will depend on our ability to:. • train, deploy and support a qualified sales force to market and sell our newly launched products;. • have third parties manufacture and release the products in sufficient quantities;. • implement and maintain agreements with wholesalers and distributors;. • receive adequate levels of coverage and reimbursement for these products from governments and third-party payors;. • develop and execute marketing and sales strategies and programs for the products; and. • enter into suitable partnerships with third parties, as needed, to provide a viable platform to commercialize inclisiran.. We expect that the revenues from inclisiran, if approved, will represent a very significant portion of our revenues in the future, particularly given that Angiomax is subject to generic competition.  As a result, if we are unable to successfully commercialize inclisiran, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially harmed.. If we are unable to successfully develop our business infrastructure and operations, our ability to generate future product revenue will be adversely affected and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Our ability to support the sales and marketing of our products in the United States and globally will depend on our ability to properly scale our internal organization and infrastructure to accommodate the development and, upon approval, commercialization of inclisiran. To manage our existing and future growth and the breadth and complexity of our activities, we need to properly invest in personnel, infrastructure, information management systems and other operational resources. If we are unable to scale global operations successfully and in a timely manner, the growth of our business may be limited. Developing our business infrastructure and operations may be more difficult, more expensive or take longer than we anticipate.. Future development of our business infrastructure and operations could strain our operational, human and financial resources. In order to manage the development of our business infrastructure and global operations, we must:. • continue to improve operating, administrative, and information systems;. • accurately predict future personnel and resource needs to meet contract commitments;. • track the progress of ongoing projects; and. • attract and retain qualified management, sales, professional, scientific and technical operating personnel.. 21. Table of Contents. If we do not take these actions and are not able to manage our business, then our operations may be less successful than anticipated.. Risks Related to Our Financial Results. We will need additional funds to support our operations, and such funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern.. We are focused on the advancement of our product candidate, inclisiran. The completion of the development and the potential commercialization of inclisiran, should it receive regulatory approval, will require substantial funds. We will need to obtain substantial additional sources of funding to develop and, if approved, commercialize inclisiran.. Due to the introduction of generic competition against Angiomax and the divestiture of certain of our non-core products, our revenues generated from product sales have declined significantly since 2014. Revenues are expected to continue to decline as generic competition for Angiomax increases. We have incurred net losses and negative cash flows from operations since 2014 and had an accumulated deficit of $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2017. We expect to incur significant expenses and operating losses for the foreseeable future as we continue to develop, seek regulatory approval for and commercially launch inclisiran. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents and available for sale securities of approximately $151.4 million as of December 31, 2017, together with the upfront and guaranteed cash proceeds from the Melinta transaction and cash flows we expect to generate from product sales, will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated operating and other funding requirements for the next twelve months from March 1, 2018 (the date of filing this Form 10-K).. Because we expect to continue to incur negative cash flows from operations, we may need to raise additional funds through other sources of liquidity from the Melinta transaction and from asset sales, including asset sales of products or businesses that generate a material portion of our revenues, engage in other strategic transactions, sell additional equity or debt securities, or seek additional financing through other arrangements in order to meet our anticipated operating and funding requirements prior to the filing of an NDA for inclisiran. There can be no assurances that asset sales or public or private financings may be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our ability to obtain additional debt financing may be limited by market conditions.  If we are unable to consummate asset sales, obtain additional financing or otherwise increase our cash resources, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our planned research, development or commercialization activities.. We no longer have market exclusivity for Angiomax and face generic and other competition that will cause our net revenue to decline significantly.. A substantial majority of our historic revenue has come from sales of Angiomax (bivalirudin) in the United States. Angiomax is now subject to generic competition. In the United States, we sell Angiomax under our name as a branded Angiomax product, and, on July 2, 2015, entered into a supply and distribution agreement with Sandoz, under which we granted Sandoz the exclusive right to sell in the United States an authorized generic of Angiomax (bivalirudin).  We entered into the supply and distribution agreement as a result of the July 2, 2015 Federal Circuit Court ruling against us in our patent infringement litigation with Hospira with respect to the '727 patent and the '343 patent covering a more consistent and improved Angiomax drug product and the processes by which it is made.  In addition to Hospira, other generic firms have entered the market. Mylan commenced marketing its generic bivalirudin product following a decision by the Federal Circuit Court in Mylan's appeal that reversed an earlier district court decision that found that Mylan's abbreviated ANDA product infringed all of the asserted claims of the '727 patent. APP Pharmaceuticals LLC, or APP, through its affiliated company, Fresenius Kabi, commenced selling its generic version of Angiomax under provisions of a settlement agreement triggered by the Federal Circuit Court's July 2, 2015 decision in the Hospira matter.  Apotex Inc. and Dr. Reddy's Laboratories have each also commenced commercialization of generic bivalirudin products upon receiving final approval if their respective ANDA filings by the FDA even though we remain in active litigation against Apotex and only recently settled with Dr. Reddy's Laboratories.  In addition, in January 2018 Baxter announced that the FDA approved Baxter's ready-to-use formulation of bivalirudin for use as an anticoagulant in patients undergoing PCI.. A number of companies in addition to Hospira, Mylan, APP, Apotex Inc. and Dr. Reddy's Laboratories have filed ANDAs for their generic versions of Angiomax. In addition to the generic versions and the ready-to-use version of bivalirudin currently being sold, Angiomax could be subject to further generic competition in the United States from Teva and other generic ANDA filers that we have settled with under the circumstances set forth in our respective settlement agreements with such parties and upon a final approval of each company's ANDA filings by the FDA. Pliva Hrvatska DOO, an affiliate of Teva, currently has tentative approval for its ANDA filing for its generic version of Angiomax. Other ANDA filers may commercialize their products 'at risk' if they receive final approval of their respective ANDA filings and are not subject to a Hatch-Waxman 30-month stay. Further, we remain. 22. Table of Contents. in infringement litigation involving the '727 patent and '343 patent with the other ANDA filers.  See Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for descriptions of our litigation with ANDA filers and related settlements. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of our infringement litigation. We may continue to incur further legal expenses related to these matters.. The principal patent covering Angiomax in Europe expired in August 2015. As a result, we face generic competition in Europe.  We are in the process of voluntarily discontinuing and withdrawing Angiomax from the market outside of North America and have ceased related commercialization activities.. Net product revenues from sales of Angiomax, which includes our sales of branded Angiomax and the sales of authorized generic Angiomax (bivalirudin) by Sandoz, decreased from $50.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 to $18.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. We expect that net product revenues from sales of Angiomax will continue to decline in 2018 and in future years due to generic and other competition. Although we have entered into a supply and distribution agreement with Sandoz to sell an authorized generic version of Angiomax, the royalty income from the sale of the authorized generic, which for the year ended December 31, 2017 was approximately $25.8 million, is expected to only partially offset the expected further decline in Angiomax net product revenues.. We have a history of net losses and may not achieve profitability in future periods.. We have incurred net losses in many years and on a cumulative basis since our inception, and we expect to continue to incur net losses. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $1.3 billion. In those periods in which we were able to achieve profitability, our profitability was based on revenue from sales of Angiomax, and a substantial majority of our historic revenue has been generated from sales of Angiomax in the United States. However, generic competition for Angiomax commenced in the United States in July 2015 and we lost market exclusivity for Angiomax in Europe in August 2015.  We expect that net revenue from sales of Angiomax will continue to decline in  future years due to competition from generic versions of Angiomax, including our authorized generic being marketed by Sandoz and other generic versions of Angiomax which have been and may be approved by the FDA.. We expect to make substantial expenditures to further develop and commercialize inclisiran, including costs and expenses associated with research and development, clinical trials, nonclinical and preclinical studies, regulatory approvals and commercialization. We will need to generate significant revenue in future periods from inclisiran in order to achieve and maintain profitability. If we are unable to generate significant revenue, we may not achieve profitability in future periods. Our ability to generate future revenue will be substantially dependent on our ability to successfully commercialize inclisiran. If we fail to achieve profitability within the time frame expected by investors or securities analysts, the market price of our common stock may decline.. We review our inventory, including inventory purchase commitments, and provide reserves, as appropriate, against the carrying amount of inventory. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2015, we recorded a $29.5 million inventory obsolescence charge and a charge of $12.1 million for potential losses on future inventory purchases primarily due to the loss of exclusivity of Angiomax.  We also recorded an $8.5 million reserve for potential inventory obsolescence during the year ended December 31, 2016.  As of December 31, 2017, our inventory of Angiomax was $5.6 million and there are no further inventory-related purchase commitments for Angiomax bulk drug substance. We recorded a $16.7 million reserve for potential inventory obsolescence during the year ended December 31, 2017.  If sales of Angiomax decline more than our current expectations, we could be required to make an additional allowance for excess or obsolete inventory, increase our accrual for product returns or increase our deferred tax valuation allowance, or we could incur other costs related to operating our business, each of which could negatively impact our results of operations and our financial condition.. We may need to raise additional capital. If we are unable to obtain such capital on favorable terms or at all, we may not be able to execute on our business plans and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. On November 3, 2015, we announced that our current intention was to explore strategies for optimizing our capital structure and liquidity position. At December 31, 2017, we had approximately $151.4 million in cash and cash equivalents. We expect to devote substantial financial resources to our research and development efforts, clinical trials, nonclinical and preclinical studies and regulatory approvals and to our commercialization and manufacturing programs associated with our products and our products in development. We also will require cash to pay interest on the $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2022 notes and the $402.5 million aggregate principal amount of the 2023 notes, and to make principal payments on the 2022 notes and 2023 notes at maturity or upon conversion (other than the 2023 notes upon conversion, in which case we will have the option to settle entirely in shares of our common stock). In addition, as part of our business development strategy, we generally structure our license agreements and acquisition agreements so that a significant portion of the total license or acquisition cost is contingent upon the successful achievement of specified development, regulatory or commercial milestones. As a result, we will require cash. 23. Table of Contents. to make payments upon achievement of these milestones under the license agreements and acquisition agreements to which we are a party.. As of February 27, 2018, we may have to make contingent cash payments upon the achievement of specified development, regulatory or commercial milestones of up to:. • $150.0 million for the license and collaboration agreement with Alnylam;. • $69.3 million relating to our research and development infectious disease portfolio acquired in our Rempex acquisition (and which was not divested in the Melinta transactions); and. • $2.2 million for other transaction milestones.. As of February 27, 2018, our total potential milestone payment obligations related to development, regulatory and commercial milestones for our products and products in development under our license agreements and acquisition agreements, assuming all milestones are achieved in accordance with the terms of these agreements, would be approximately $221.3 million. Of this amount, approximately $49.4 million relates to development milestones, $71.9 million relates to regulatory approval milestones and $100.0 million relates to commercial milestones.  These amounts do not include milestone payments of up to $175.8 million related to Ionsys, which was discontinued and withdrawn from the market in the United States in June 2017 and has also been discontinued in Europe, and the MDCO-700 development program, which we discontinued in August 2017.. Based on our anticipated timeline for the achievement of development, regulatory and commercial milestones, we expect that we would make $5.0 million of milestone payments under our license agreements and acquisition agreements during the remainder of 2018. We may pay additional milestone payments under our license agreements and acquisition agreements during 2018 if we achieve additional development, regulatory and commercial milestones during the year.. Total net revenues from sales of Angiomax were significantly lower in the year ended December 31, 2017 than in previous comparable periods, and we expect these revenues will decline further. These reduced revenues are likely to significantly impact our cash and cash equivalents and how we fund our future capital requirements.. We continually evaluate our liquidity requirements, capital needs and availability of resources in view of, among other things, alternative sources and uses of capital, debt service requirements, the cost of debt and equity capital and estimated future operating cash flow.  We may raise additional capital; enter into licenses or collaborations with third parties to develop and commercialize inclisiran; sell assets, including asset sales of products or businesses that generate a material portion of our current revenue; restructure or refinance outstanding debt; repurchase material amounts of outstanding debt or equity; or take a combination of such steps or other steps to increase or manage our liquidity and capital resources.  Any such actions or steps could have a material effect on us.. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including:. • the progress, level, timing and cost of our research and development activities related to our clinical trials and non-clinical studies with respect to inclisiran;. • whether we develop and commercialize inclisiran on our own or through licenses and collaborations with third parties and the terms and timing of such arrangements, if any;. • the extent to which our submissions and planned submissions for regulatory approval of inclisiran are approved on a timely basis, if at all;. • the decline in Angiomax sales and the extent to which royalties on sales of the authorized generic of Angiomax are generated;. • if inclisiran receives regulatory approval, the extent to which it is commercially successful;. • the continuation or termination of third-party manufacturing, distribution and sales and marketing arrangements;. • the size, cost and effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs, including scaling our operations in anticipation of a potential launch of inclisiran;. • the amounts of our payment obligations to third parties with respect to inclisiran or other assets; and. 24. Table of Contents. • our ability to defend and enforce our intellectual property rights.. With respect to both our short-term and long-term cash requirements, if our existing cash resources, together with cash that we generate from sales of our products and other sources, are insufficient to satisfy our research and development, clinical trial, product commercialization and other funding requirements, including obligations under our convertible notes, we will need to sell additional equity or debt securities, engage in asset sales, including asset sales of products or businesses that generate a material portion of our revenue, engage in other strategic transactions, or seek additional financing through other arrangements, any of which could be material. Any sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities may result in dilution to our stockholders. Public or private financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we seek to raise funds through collaboration or licensing arrangements with third parties, we may be required to relinquish rights to products, products in development or technologies that we would not otherwise relinquish or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. Moreover, our ability to obtain additional debt financing may be limited by the 2022 notes and the 2023 notes, market conditions or otherwise. If we are unable to obtain additional financing or otherwise increase our cash resources, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our planned research, development and commercialization activities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. If we seek to raise additional capital by selling equity or debt securities or through other arrangements in the future, our stockholders could be subject to dilution and we may become subject to financial restrictions and covenants, which may limit our activities.. If we determine that raising capital would be in the interest of the company and our stockholders, we may seek to sell equity or debt securities or seek financing through other arrangements. Any sale of equity or debt securities may result in dilution to our stockholders and increased liquidity requirements. Debt financing may involve covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt or making capital expenditures. Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants could be dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and changes in the level of competition. Failure to comply with the financial restrictions and covenants would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions or product licenses and integration of these acquisitions and any products and product candidates acquired or licensed may disrupt our business and management.. We have in the past and may in the future acquire or license additional development-stage compounds, clinical-stage product candidates, approved products, technologies or businesses. For example, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Alnylam with respect to inclisiran.  We may not realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, license, or collaboration, each of which involves numerous risks. These risks include:. • difficulty in integrating the operations, products or product candidates and personnel of an acquired company;. • entry into markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions;. • failure to successfully further develop the acquired or licensed business, product, compounds, programs or technology or to achieve strategic objectives, including commercializing and marketing successfully the development stage compounds and clinical stage candidates that we acquire or license;. • disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and employees from other opportunities and challenges;. • inadequate or unfavorable clinical trial results from acquired or contracted for products in development;. • inability to retain personnel, key customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the acquired company, or acquired or licensed product or technology;. • potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired company, or acquired or licensed product or technology, including but not limited to, problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges with respect to intellectual property, product quality, revenue recognition or other accounting practices, employee, customer or partner disputes or issues and other legal and financial contingencies and known and unknown liabilities;. 25. Table of Contents. • liability for activities of the acquired company or licensor before the acquisition or license, including intellectual property infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities;. • exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition or license, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third-parties; and. • difficulties in the integration of the acquired company's departments, systems, including accounting, human resource and other administrative systems, technologies, books and records, and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, controls, including internal control over financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related procedures and policies.. Acquisitions and licensing arrangements are inherently risky, and ultimately, if we do not complete an announced acquisition or license transaction or integrate an acquired business, or an acquired or licensed product or technology successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the benefits of the acquisition or license to the extent anticipated and the perception of the effectiveness of our management team and our company may suffer in the marketplace.  In addition, even if we are able to achieve the long-term benefits associated with our strategic transactions, our expenses and short-term costs may increase materially and adversely affect our liquidity and short-term profitability.  Further, if we cannot successfully integrate an acquired business, or acquired or licensed products or technologies, we may experience material negative consequences to our business, financial condition or results of operations.  Further, if we sell products that have been acquired through acquisitions or licensing arrangements, we may incur losses depending on the consideration received and structure of the transaction. For example, in connection with our sale of our hemostasis business, which we completed on February 1, 2016, we incurred impairment charges of $133.3 million, including $24.5 million related to goodwill. Future acquisitions or licenses could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses, or impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, and restructuring charges, any of which could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Notes. We have incurred substantial indebtedness, and our leverage and maintenance of high levels of indebtedness may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Servicing this debt, including the 2022 notes and the 2023 notes, will require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay the interest on or principal of the 2022 notes, the 2023 notes or other debt we may incur.. We have incurred a significant amount of indebtedness. Our maintenance of this level of indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including:. • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to the payment of interest on, and principal of, our debt, which will reduce the amounts available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts and other general corporate purposes;. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic, industry and market conditions;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future or engage in certain strategic transactions without securing bondholder consent;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and. • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have less debt, better debt servicing options or better access to capital resources.. In addition, our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance the remaining amount outstanding under the 2022 notes or the 2023 notes depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt, including the notes.   If we are unable to generate cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be unfavorable to us or highly dilutive, any of which may be material to the holders of our common stock. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend. 26. Table of Contents. on the capital markets and our financial condition at the time we seek to refinance such indebtedness. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations.. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of the 2022 notes or to repurchase the 2022 notes or the 2023 notes upon a fundamental change, and our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion of the 2022 notes or repurchase of the 2022 notes or 2023 notes.. Holders of the 2022 notes and the 2023 notes will have the right to require us to repurchase their notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, as defined in the applicable indenture, at a repurchase price equal to 100% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, as described in the applicable indenture.  In addition, upon conversion of the 2022 notes, we will be required to make with respect to each $1,000 in principal amount of notes converted cash payments of at least the lesser of $1,000 and the sum of the daily conversion values as described in the applicable indenture.  Upon conversion of the 2023 notes, we will have the option to settle such conversions in cash, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof.  However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to repurchase notes, to pay the notes at maturity or to pay cash upon conversions of such notes. In addition, our ability to repurchase notes or to pay cash upon conversions of such notes may be limited by law, by regulatory authority or by agreements governing our existing indebtedness (including, in the case of the 2022 notes or the 2023 notes, the indenture governing any other series of notes) and future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the applicable indenture or to pay any cash payable on future conversions of the notes as required by the applicable indenture would constitute a default under the applicable indenture. A default under the applicable indenture governing the 2022 notes or the 2023 notes, respectively, or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our existing indebtedness (including, in the case of the 2022 notes or the 2023 notes, the indenture governing any other series of notes) and future indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof.. The conditional conversion feature of the 2022 notes or the 2023 notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the 2022 notes or the 2023 notes is triggered, holders of such notes will be entitled to convert the notes at any time during specified periods at their option, which are set forth in the applicable indenture.  If one or more holders elect to convert their 2022 notes, we would be required, with respect to each $1,000 principal amount of 2022 notes, to make cash payments equal to the lesser of $1,000 and the sum of the daily conversion values, which could adversely affect our liquidity.  If the holders of all of the 2022 notes were able to exercise their conversion option, we would not have sufficient cash to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to all of the 2022 notes and meet our anticipated funding requirements for a year from March 1, 2018.  With respect to the 2023 notes, we have the option to settle conversions entirely in cash, in common stock or a combination thereof.  In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their notes, we are required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the notes as a current rather than long - term liability, which results in a material reduction of our net working capital.. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the 2022 notes and the 2023 notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results.. Under Accounting Standards Codification 470-20, \"Debt with Conversion and Other Options\", which we refer to as ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion (such as the 2022 notes and the 2023 notes) in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the 2022 notes and the 2023 notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid in capital section of stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the 2022 notes and the 2023 notes.  As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the notes to their face amount over the term of the 2022 notes and the 2023 notes. We will report lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current period's amortization of the debt discount and the instrument's coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the market price of our common stock and the trading price of the 2022 notes and the 2023 notes.. In addition, under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments that may be settled entirely or partly in cash (such as the 2022 notes or the 2023 notes) are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per. 27. Table of Contents. share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess are issued. We cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the 2022 notes or the 2023 notes, then our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected.. We may incur substantially more debt or take other actions which would intensify the risks discussed above.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future, some of which may be secured debt. We and our subsidiaries are not restricted under the terms of the applicable indenture governing the 2022 notes or the 2023 notes from incurring additional debt, securing existing or future debt, recapitalizing our debt or taking a number of other actions that are not limited by the terms of the applicable indenture governing the 2022 notes or the 2023 notes that could have the effect of diminishing our ability to make payments on the notes when due.. Additional Risks Related to Commercialization. We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing competing products before or more successfully than we do.. Our industry is highly competitive. Competitors in the United States and other countries include major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than we are and have substantially greater research and development capabilities and experience, and greater manufacturing, marketing and financial resources, than we do.. Our competitors may develop, market or license products or novel technologies that are more effective, safer, more convenient or less costly than any that have been or are being developed or sold by us, or may obtain marketing approval for their products from the FDA or equivalent foreign regulatory bodies more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours.. There are well established products, including in many cases generic products, that are approved and marketed for the indications for which Angiomax is approved and the markets and indications for which we are developing inclisiran. In addition, competitors are developing products for such markets and indications. A description of the competition for inclisiran and Angiomax is included in \"Part I, Item 1. Business-Competition\" of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K for the year ended December 31, 2017.. We expect to compete, in the case of inclisiran, and we compete, in the case of Angiomax, on the basis of product efficacy, safety, ease of administration, price and economic value compared to drugs used in current practice or currently being developed. If we are not successful in demonstrating these attributes, physicians and other key healthcare decision makers may choose other products over our products, switch from our products to new products or choose to use our products only in limited circumstances, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If reimbursement by government payers or other third-party payers is not available or limited for our products, pricing is delayed or set at unfavorable levels or access to our products is reduced or terminated by governmental and other third-party payers, our ability to generate revenue would be adversely affected.. Acceptable levels of coverage and reimbursement of drug treatments by government payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid programs, private health insurers and other organizations, have a significant effect on our ability to successfully commercialize our products. Reimbursement in the United States, Europe or elsewhere may not be available for any products we may develop or, if already available, may be decreased in the future. We may not get reimbursement or reimbursement may be limited if government payers, private health insurers and other organizations are influenced by the prices of existing drugs in determining whether our products will be reimbursed and at what levels. If reimbursement is not available or is available only at limited levels, we may not be able to commercialize our products, or may not be able to obtain a satisfactory financial return on our products.. In certain countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals and the level of reimbursement are subject to governmental control. In some countries, pricing and reimbursement are set with limited, if any, participation in the process by the marketing authorization holder.  In addition, it can take an extended period of time after the receipt of initial approval of a product to establish and obtain reimbursement or pricing approval. Reimbursement approval also may be required at the individual patient level, which can lead to further delays. In addition, in some countries, it may take an extended period of time to collect payment even after reimbursement has been established.  If prices are set at unsatisfactory levels, such prices may negatively impact our revenues from sales in those countries. An increasing number of countries are taking initiatives to attempt to reduce large budget deficits by focusing cost-cutting efforts on pharmaceuticals for their state-run health care systems. These international price control efforts have impacted all regions of the world, but have been most drastic in the. 28. Table of Contents. European Union. Further, a number of European Union countries use drug prices from other countries of the European Union as \"reference prices\" to help determine pricing in their own countries. Consequently, a downward trend in drug prices for some countries could contribute to similar occurrences elsewhere.  If reimbursement of our future products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability.. Third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid, increasingly are challenging prices charged for and the cost-effectiveness of medical products and services and they increasingly are limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for drugs. If these third-party payers do not consider our products to be economically beneficial compared to other available therapies, they may not cover our products after approval as a benefit under their plans or, if they do, the level of payment may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products at a profit.  Third-party payers may provide coverage, but place stringent limitations on such coverage, such as requiring alternative treatments to be tried first.  The U.S. government, state legislatures and foreign governments have shown significant interest in implementing cost-containment programs to limit the growth of government-paid health care costs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products for branded prescription drugs.  There exists a broader trend in health care in which the government and other payors are seeking to move from individualized \"fee for service\" payments toward a system focused on \"bundled\" payments for more comprehensive packages of services and episodes of care.  Also, the trend toward managed health care in the United States and the changes in health insurance programs may result in lower prices for pharmaceutical products and health care reform.. Health care reform measures such as those outlined above, and others consistent with these trends, could, among other things, increase pressure on pricing.  Additionally, health care reform efforts undertaken during the Trump administration may result in additional reductions in Medicare, Medicaid and other healthcare funding.  In addition to federal legislation, state legislatures and foreign governments have also shown significant interest in implementing cost-containment programs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products. The establishment of limitations on patient access to our drugs, adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures in new jurisdictions or programs, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures could adversely impact our business and future results. If governmental organizations and third-party payers do not consider our products to be cost-effective compared to other available therapies, they may not reimburse providers or consumers of our products or, if they do, the level of reimbursement may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis.. Use or misuse of our products may result in serious injuries or even death to patients and may subject us to significant claims for product liability.  If we are unable to obtain insurance at acceptable costs and adequate levels or otherwise protect ourselves against potential product liability claims, we could be exposed to significant liability.. Our business exposes us to potential significant product liability risks which are inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of human healthcare products. Product liability claims might be made by patients in clinical trials, consumers, health care providers or pharmaceutical companies or others that sell our products. These claims may be made even with respect to those products that are manufactured in licensed and regulated facilities or otherwise possess regulatory approval for commercial sale or study.. These claims could expose us to significant liabilities that could prevent or interfere with the development or commercialization of our products. Product liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or pay significant damages. With respect to our commercial sales and our clinical trials, we are covered by product liability insurance in the amount of $10.0 million per occurrence and $10.0 million annually in the aggregate on a claims-made basis. This coverage may not be adequate to cover all or any product liability claims that we face.. As we continue to commercialize Angiomax and develop inclisiran, we may wish to increase our product liability insurance. Product liability coverage is expensive. In the future, we may not be able to maintain or obtain such product liability insurance on reasonable terms, at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to product liability claims.. We may not be able to manage our business effectively if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel and consultants.. Our industry has experienced a high rate of turnover of management personnel in recent years. We are highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for the acquisition, development and commercialization activities we conduct or sponsor. If we lose one or more of the members of our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer, Clive A. Meanwell, or other key employees or consultants, our ability to implement successfully our business strategy could be seriously harmed. Our ability to replace these key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to acquire, develop and commercialize. 29. Table of Contents. products successfully. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense, and we may be unable to hire, train, retain or motivate such additional personnel.. Risks Related to our Dependence on Third Parties for Manufacturing, Research and Development, and Distribution Activities. We do not have manufacturing or supply capabilities and are completely dependent on third parties for the manufacture and supply of our products.  We depend on a limited number of suppliers for the production of bulk drug substance for inclisiran and Angiomax and to carry out fill-finish activities. If any of these suppliers does not or cannot fulfill its manufacturing or supply obligations to us, our ability to conduct clinical trials of inclisiran and to meet commercial demands for Angiomax could be impaired and our business could be harmed.. We do not manufacture inclisiran or Angiomax, and do not plan to develop any capacity to manufacture them. We currently rely on a limited number of manufacturers and other third parties for bulk substance and to carry out fill-finish activities for inclisiran and Angiomax.  We expect to continue this manufacturing strategy for the foreseeable future.. In the event that any third-party is unable or unwilling to carry out its respective manufacturing or supply obligations or terminates or refuses to renew its arrangements with us, we may be unable to obtain alternative manufacturing or supply on commercially reasonable terms on a timely basis or at all. In such cases, the third-party manufacturers have made no commitment to supply the drug product to us on a long-term basis and could reject our purchase orders. Only a limited number of manufacturers are capable of manufacturing inclisiran and Angiomax. Consolidation within the pharmaceutical manufacturing industry could further reduce the number of manufacturers capable of producing our products, or otherwise affect our existing contractual relationships.. If we were required to transfer manufacturing processes to other third-party manufacturers and we were able to identify an alternative manufacturer, we would still need to satisfy various regulatory requirements. Satisfaction of these requirements could cause us to experience significant delays in receiving an adequate supply of inclisiran and Angiomax and could be costly. Moreover, we may not be able to transfer processes that are proprietary to the manufacturer. Any delays in the manufacturing process may adversely impact our ability to supply product for clinical trials of inclisiran, which could affect our ability to complete clinical trials of inclisiran on a timely basis and our ability to meet commercial demands for our products on a timely basis, which could reduce our revenue.. If third parties on whom we rely to manufacture and support the development and commercialization of inclisiran and Angiomax do not fulfill their obligations or we are unable to establish or maintain such arrangements, the development and commercialization of our products may be terminated or delayed, and the costs of development and commercialization may increase.. Our development and commercialization strategy involves entering into arrangements with corporate and academic collaborators, contract research organizations, distributors, third-party manufacturers, licensors, licensees and others to conduct development work, manage or conduct our clinical trials, manufacture our products and market and sell our products outside of the United States. We do not have the expertise or the resources to conduct many of these activities on our own and, as a result, are particularly dependent on third parties in many areas.. We may not be able to maintain our existing arrangements with respect to the commercialization or manufacture of Angiomax or establish and maintain arrangements to develop, manufacture and, if approved, commercialize inclisiran or any additional product candidates or products we may acquire on terms that are acceptable to us. Any current or future arrangements for development and commercialization may not be successful. If we are not able to establish or maintain agreements relating to Angiomax, inclisiran or any additional products or product candidates we may acquire, our results of operations would be materially adversely affected.. Third parties may not perform their obligations as expected. The amount and timing of resources that third parties devote to developing, manufacturing and commercializing our products are not within our control. Our collaborators may develop, manufacture or commercialize, either alone or with others, products and services that are similar to or competitive with the products that are the subject of the collaboration with us. Furthermore, our interests may differ from those of third parties that manufacture or commercialize our products. Our collaborators may reevaluate their priorities from time to time, including following mergers and consolidations, and change the focus of their development, manufacturing or commercialization efforts. Disagreements that may arise with these third parties could delay or lead to the termination of the development or commercialization of our product candidates, or result in litigation or arbitration, which would be time consuming and expensive.. 30. Table of Contents. If any third party that manufactures or supports the development or commercialization of our products breaches or terminates its agreement with us, fails to commit sufficient resources to our collaboration or conduct its activities in a timely manner, or fails to comply with regulatory requirements, such breach, termination or failure could:. • delay or otherwise adversely impact the manufacturing, development or commercialization of Angiomax, inclisiran or any additional products or product candidates that we may acquire or develop;. • require us to seek a new collaborator or undertake unforeseen additional responsibilities or devote unforeseen additional resources to the manufacturing, development or commercialization of our products; or. • result in the termination of the development or commercialization of our products.. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers and suppliers to supply Angiomax and inclisiran may increase the risk that we will not have appropriate supplies of each product or that sanctions may be imposed on us or the manufacturer due to a manufacturer's failure to comply with regulation requirements, either of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Reliance on third-party manufacturers and suppliers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured Angiomax or inclisiran ourselves, including:. • reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance;. • the possible breach of the manufacturing or supply agreement by the third party; and. • the possible termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us.. Angiomax and inclisiran may compete with products of third parties for access to manufacturing facilities. If we are not able to obtain adequate supplies of our products, it will be more difficult for us to compete effectively, market and sell Angiomax and develop inclisiran.. Our manufacturers are subject to ongoing, periodic, unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies or their designees to evaluate compliance with the FDA's current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, regulations and other governmental regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We cannot be certain that our present or future manufacturers will be able to comply with cGMP regulations and other FDA regulatory requirements or similar regulatory requirements outside the United States. We do not control compliance by our manufacturers with these regulations and standards. Failure of our third-party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on the manufacturer or us, including fines and other monetary penalties, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products in development, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, suspension of clinical trials, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products in development or products, interruption of production, warning letters, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of our Angiomax and inclisiran.. We may depend on collaborations with third parties for the development and commercialization of inclisiran. If those collaborations, if entered into, are not successful, we may not be able to capitalize on the market potential of inclisiran.. We may seek to develop and commercialize inclisiran through a variety of types of collaboration arrangements. Our likely collaborators for any marketing, distribution, development, licensing or broader collaboration arrangements include large and mid - size pharmaceutical companies, regional and national pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies. We may not be able to enter into these types of arrangements on a timely basis, on favorable terms or at all. Our ability to enter into such arrangements with respect to inclisiran that are subject to licenses may be limited by the terms of those licenses. If we do enter into any such arrangements with any third parties in the future, we will likely have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators dedicate to the development or commercialization of inclisiran. Our ability to generate revenues from these arrangements will depend on our collaborators' abilities to successfully perform the functions assigned to them in these arrangements.. 31. Table of Contents. Collaborations involving inclisiran could pose a number of risks to us, including:. • collaborators have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations;. • collaborators may not pursue development and commercialization of inclisiran or may elect not to continue or renew development or commercialization programs based on clinical trial results, changes in the collaborators' strategic focus or available funding, or external factors such as an acquisition that diverts resources or creates competing priorities;. • collaborators may delay clinical trials, provide insufficient funding for a clinical trial program, stop a clinical trial or abandon inclisiran, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new formulation of inclisiran for clinical testing;. • collaborators could independently develop, or develop with third parties, products that compete directly or indirectly with our products in development if the collaborators believe that competitive products are more likely to be successfully developed or can be commercialized under terms that are more economically attractive than ours;. • a collaborator with marketing and distribution rights to one or more products may not commit sufficient resources to the marketing and distribution of such product or products;. • collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property or proprietary information or otherwise expose us to potential litigation;. • collaborators may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may expose us to litigation and potential liability;. • disputes may arise with respect to the ownership of intellectual property developed pursuant to our collaborations;. • disputes may arise between the collaborators and us that result in the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our products or products in development or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management attention and resources; and. • collaborations may be terminated and, if terminated, may result in a need for additional capital to pursue further development or commercialization of the applicable products and products in development.. Collaboration agreements may not lead to development or commercialization of products in development in the most efficient manner or at all. If a collaborator of ours were to be involved in a business combination, the continued pursuit and emphasis on our product development or commercialization program could be delayed, diminished or terminated.. If we use hazardous and biological materials in a manner that causes injury or violates applicable law, we may be liable for damages or subject to fines and penalties.. We conduct research and development activities that involve the controlled use of potentially hazardous substances, including chemical, biological and radioactive materials and viruses. In addition, our operations produce hazardous waste products. Federal, state and local laws and regulations in the United States and Canada govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. We may incur significant additional costs to comply with applicable laws in the future. Also, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials and we may incur liability as a result of any such contamination or injury. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could exceed our resources. We have only limited insurance for liabilities arising from hazardous materials. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may restrict our research, development and production efforts, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. 32. Table of Contents. Additional Risks Related to Regulatory Matters. Clinical trials of product candidates are expensive and time-consuming, and the results of these trials are uncertain.  If we are unable to conduct clinical trials that continue to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of inclisiran on a timely basis, then our costs of developing inclisiran may increase and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for inclisiran on a timely basis or at all.. Before we can obtain regulatory approvals to market inclisiran, we will be required to complete extensive clinical trials in humans to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of such product for such indication.. Clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. Success in pre-clinical testing or early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. An unexpected result in one or more of our clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. For example, in November 2016, we voluntarily discontinued our clinical development program for MDCO-216, an investigational cholesterol efflux promoter, and in August 2017 we voluntarily discontinued our clinical development program for MDCO-700, an investigational anesthetic agent.. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent us from receiving regulatory approval or commercializing our inclisiran, including:. • our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials which even if undertaken cannot ensure we will gain approval;. • data obtained from pre-clinical testing and clinical trials may be subject to varying interpretations, which could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities deciding not to approve a product in a timely fashion, or at all;. • the cost of clinical trials may be greater than we currently anticipate;. • regulators, ethics committees or institutional review boards may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site;. • we, or the FDA or other regulatory authorities, might suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. For example, we have in the past voluntarily suspended enrollment in one of our clinical trials to review an interim analysis of safety data from the trial; and. • the effects of inclisiran may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or inclisiran may have other unexpected characteristics.. The rate of completion of clinical trials depends in part upon the rate of enrollment of patients. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, the existence of competing clinical trials and the availability of alternative or new treatments. Delays in patient enrollment in any of our current or future clinical trials may result in increased costs and program delays.. If we or the contract manufacturers manufacturing inclisiran and Angiomax fail to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements to which we, our contract manufacturers and inclisiran and Angiomax are subject, the development of inclisiran could be jeopardized and Angiomax could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market, and we could be subject to penalties.. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, safety, advertising, promotion, storage, sales, distribution, import, export and marketing, among other things, of our products, both before and after approval, are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States, Europe and elsewhere throughout the world. Both before and after approval of a product, quality control and manufacturing procedures must conform to cGMP. Regulatory authorities, including the FDA, periodically inspect manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMP. Our failure or the failure of contract manufacturers to comply with the laws administered by the FDA, the EMA or other governmental authorities could result in, among other things, any of the following:. • delay in approving or refusal to approve a product;. • product recall or seizure;. 33. Table of Contents. • suspension or withdrawal of an approved product from the market;. • delays in, suspension of or prohibition of commencing, clinical trials of inclisiran;. • interruption of production;. • operating restrictions;. • untitled or warning letters;. • injunctions;. • fines and other monetary penalties;. • the imposition of civil or criminal penalties;. • disruption of importing and exporting activities; and. • unanticipated expenditures.. We may incur significant liability if it is determined that we are promoting the \"off-label\" use of Angiomax, or, if approved, inclisiran.. Physicians may prescribe drug products for uses that are not described in the product's labeling and that differ from those approved by the FDA or other applicable regulatory agencies. Off-label uses are common across medical specialties.  Although the FDA and other regulatory agencies do not regulate a physician's choice of treatments, the FDA and other regulatory agencies do restrict communications on the subject of off-label use. Companies may not promote drugs for off-label uses. The FDA and other regulatory and enforcement authorities actively enforce laws and regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing approval has not been obtained. A company that is found to have promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions.. Notwithstanding the regulatory restrictions on off-label promotion, the FDA and other regulatory authorities allow companies to engage in truthful, non-misleading, and non-promotional scientific exchange concerning their products.  We engage in medical education activities and communicate with investigators and potential investigators regarding our clinical trials. If the FDA or another regulatory or enforcement authority determines that our communications regarding our marketed products are not in compliance with the relevant regulatory requirements and that we have improperly promoted off-label uses, we may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions.. If we do not comply with federal, state and foreign laws and regulations relating to the health care business, we could face substantial penalties.. We and our customers are subject to extensive regulation by the federal government, and the governments of the states and foreign countries in which we may conduct our business. In the United States, the laws that directly or indirectly affect our ability to operate our business include the following:. • the Federal Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce either the referral of an individual or furnishing or arranging for a good or service for which payment may be made under federal health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid;. • other Medicare laws and regulations that prescribe the requirements for coverage and payment for services performed by our customers, including the amount of such payment;. • the Federal False Claims Act, which imposes civil and criminal liability on individuals and entities who submit, or cause to be submitted, false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government;. 34. Table of Contents. • the Federal False Statements Act, which prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services; and. • various state laws that impose similar requirements and liability with respect to state healthcare reimbursement and other programs.. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws and regulations described above or any other law or governmental regulation to which we or our customers are or will be subject, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Similarly, if our customers are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations would adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management's attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation.. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, as well as the anti-bribery laws of the nations in which we conduct business, could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences.. We are subject to the FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business and requires companies to maintain accurate books and records and internal controls, including at foreign-controlled subsidiaries.  In addition, we are subject to other anti-bribery laws of the nations in which we conduct business that apply similar prohibitions as the FCPA. Our employees or other agents may engage in prohibited conduct without our knowledge under our policies and procedures and the FCPA and other anti-bribery laws that we may be subject to for which we may be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. If we breach any of the agreements under which we license rights to products or technology from others, we could lose license rights that are material to our business or be subject to claims by our licensors.. We license rights to products and technology that are important to our business, and we expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. For instance, we have exclusively licensed patents and patent applications from Alnylam covering RNAi therapeutics.  Under our agreement with Alnylam, we are subject to a range of commercialization and development, sublicensing, royalty, patent prosecution and maintenance, insurance and other obligations.. Any failure by us to comply with any of these obligations or any other breach by us of our license agreements could give the licensor the right to terminate the license in whole, terminate the exclusive nature of the license or bring a claim against us for damages. Any such termination or claim could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or business. Even if we contest any such termination or claim and are ultimately successful, such dispute could lead to delays in the development or commercialization of potential products and result in time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. In addition, on termination we may be required to license to the licensor any related intellectual property that we developed.. If we are unable to obtain or maintain protection for the intellectual property relating to our products, the value of our products will be adversely affected.. The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies like us are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual issues. We cannot be certain that our patents and patent applications, including our own and those that we have rights to through licenses from third parties, will adequately protect our intellectual property and value of our products.  Our success protecting our intellectual property depends significantly on our ability to:. • obtain and maintain U.S. and foreign patents, including defending those patents against adverse claims;. • secure patent term extension for the patents covering our approved products;. 35. Table of Contents. • protect trade secrets;. • operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others; and. • prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights.. We may not have any additional patents issued from any patent applications that we own or license. If additional patents are granted, the claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, issued patents that we own or license may be challenged in contested proceedings such as opposition, derivation, reexamination, inter partes review, post-grant review or interference proceedings and may be narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products, and we may not be able to obtain patent term extension to prolong the terms of the principal patents covering our approved products. Changes in patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection.. In addition, the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled on several patent cases in recent years, either narrowing the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances or weakening the rights of patent owners in certain situations. This combination of events has created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents, once obtained, and with regard to our ability to obtain patents in the future. Depending on decisions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts, and the PTO, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that would weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce our existing patents and patents that we might obtain in the future.. Our patents also may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology. Because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until eighteen months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, neither we nor our licensors can be certain that others have not filed or maintained patent applications for technology used by us or covered by our pending patent applications without our being aware of these applications.. We exclusively license patents and patent applications for inclisiran and we own patents and patent applications for Angiomax. The patents covering inclisiran and Angiomax are currently set to expire at various dates.. Inclisiran. We have exclusively licensed from Alnylam patents and patent applications covering RNAi therapeutics targeting PCSK9 for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia and other human diseases for purposes of developing and commercializing such RNAi therapeutics. Some of these patents are directed to general RNAi technology and expire between 2020 and 2028 in the United States. Other patents are directed to compositions of the inclisiran product being developed under our license from Alnylam and to methods of treatment using such inclisiran product and the patents expire in 2027 and 2028 in the United States. In addition, Alnylam has filed and is prosecuting a number of patent applications in the United States and in certain foreign countries.  One of these applications, which, if issued, expires in December 2033, contains claims directed to specific compositions of the inclisiran product we are developing and methods of administrating such compositions.. With respect to the portfolio of patents licensed from Alnylam, it is possible that one or more companies hold patent rights that could be asserted against us or patent rights to which we may need a license. If a court rules that we need such patent rights that have been asserted against us and/or we are not able to obtain a license on reasonable terms, we may be forced to pay excessive license fees or may be unable to market inclisiran, which in either case could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, in October 2017 Silence Therapeutics plc and Silence Therapeutics GmbH, which we refer to together as Silence, served a claim in the High Court of Justice, Chancery Division, Patents Court in the United Kingdom, naming The Medicines Company UK Ltd., our wholly owned subsidiary, Alnylam and Alnylam UK Limited, as co-defendants. In Silence's claim, it seeks a determination that it is entitled to supplementary protection certificates, or SPCs, based on its European Patent No. 2,258,847, or the '847 patent, and the prospective European regulatory approvals for inclisiran and for certain of Alnylam's product candidates.  This is based on Silence's assertion that inclisiran and the cited Alnylam product candidates fall within the scope of the '847 patent. An SPC is an intellectual property right that could extend the life of the Silence patent in relation to a specified product for a period of up to five additional years bringing the expiration date up to 2028.  In addition, Silence is seeking costs, interest and other unspecified relief.  On October 31, 2017, we acknowledged service of the claim served by Silence and on November 30, 2017, submitted substantive defenses to the claim.  On October 27, 2017, we and Alnylam filed and served a claim against Silence Therapeutics GmbH and Silence in the High Court seeking revocation of the '847 patent, as well as a declaration of non-infringement by inclisiran and certain of Alnylam's product candidates of the '847 patent, and costs and interest among other potential remedies.  On November 14, 2017, Silence filed a defense to our claim along with counterclaims alleging infringement of the '847 patent by inclisiran and certain of Alnylam's product candidates.  On December 11, 2017, we filed an answer and defense to the counter claims.  The High Court has set a trial date of December 3, 2018 for all claims between Silence and the Defendants.  Although we. 36. Table of Contents. believe the '847 patent is invalid and not infringed by inclisiran and we will vigorously defend any claim brought against us by Silence, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainty.. Angiomax.  The principal U.S. patents covering Angiomax currently include the '727 patent and the '343 patent and previously included U.S. Patent No. 5,196,404, or the '404 patent.  The '404 patent covered the composition of matter of Angiomax.  The '404 patent was set to expire in March 2010, but the term was extended to December 15, 2014 by the PTO under the Hatch-Waxman Act.  As a result of our study of Angiomax in the pediatric setting, we had an additional six-month period of pediatric exclusivity following expiration of the '404 patent.  This period of exclusivity expired in June 2015.. In the second half of 2009, the PTO issued to us the '727 patent and the '343 patent, covering a more consistent and improved Angiomax drug product and the processes by which it is made. The '727 patent and the '343 patent are set to expire in January 2029, which includes pediatric exclusivity. In response to Paragraph IV Certification Notice letters we received with respect to ANDAs filed by a number of parties with the FDA seeking approval to market generic versions of Angiomax, we filed lawsuits against the ANDA filers alleging patent infringement of the '727 patent and '343 patent and have since entered into settlement agreements with respect to our suits against three ANDA filers, Teva, APP and Sun.. In our lawsuit against Hospira, on July 2, 2015, the Federal Circuit Court ruled against us, finding the '727 patent and '343 patent invalid under the Section 102(b) \"on sale\" bar. In November 2015, our petition for en banc review of the Federal Circuit Court's July 2, 2015 decision was granted and the Federal Circuit Court vacated its July 2, 2015 decision. In July 2015, as a result of the Federal Circuit Court's now vacated July 2, 2015 decision, we entered into a supply and distribution agreement with Sandoz under which we granted Sandoz the exclusive right to sell in the United States an authorized generic of Angiomax (bivalirudin).  On July 15, 2015, Hospira's ANDAs for its generic versions of Angiomax were approved by the FDA and Hospira began selling its generic versions of Angiomax.  On July 11, 2016, in an unanimous decision, the en banc Federal Circuit Court ruled in our favor by finding that the '727 patent and the '343 patent were not invalid under the \"on sale\" bar.  The remaining issues on appeal that were not decided by the original panel were remanded back to the same panel for consideration.  On February 6, 2018, the Federal Circuit Court issued a decision affirming the District Court's finding of noninfringement of the '727 patent and '343 patent and remanding the case back to the District Court to determine whether there was an offer for sale of the invention under Section 102(b).   Our patent infringement litigation with Mylan was ordered to be a companion appeal to the Hospira appeal and was heard by the same judges as the Hospira appeal.  On April 6, 2017, the Federal Circuit Court found that Mylan's ANDA for a generic bivalirudin product does not infringe either the '727 patent and '343 patent.  On June 28, 2017, the district court entered an amended final judgment in favor of Mylan.. In addition to Hospira, other generic firms have entered the market. Mylan commenced marketing its generic bivalirudin product following a decision by the Federal Circuit Court in Mylan's appeal that reversed an earlier district court decision that found that Mylan's ANDA product infringed all of the asserted claims of the '727 patent. APP, through its affiliated company, Fresenius Kabi, commenced selling its generic version of Angiomax under provisions of a settlement agreement triggered by the Federal Circuit Court's July 2, 2015 decision in the Hospira matter.  Apotex Inc. and Dr. Reddy's Laboratories have each also commenced commercialization of generic bivalirudin products upon receiving final approval if their respective ANDA filings by the FDA even though we remain in active litigation against Apotex and only recently settled with Dr. Reddy's Laboratories.. A number of companies in addition to Hospira, Mylan, APP, Apotex Inc. and Dr. Reddy's Laboratories have filed ANDAs for their generic versions of Angiomax. In addition to the generic versions and Baxter's ready-to-use version of bivalirudin currently being sold, Angiomax could be subject to further generic competition in the United States from Teva and other generic ANDA filers that we have settled with, under the circumstances set forth in our respective settlement agreements with such parties and upon a final approval of each company's ANDA filings by the FDA. Pliva Hrvatska DOO, an affiliate of Teva, currently has tentative approval for its ANDA filing for its generic version of Angiomax. Other ANDA filers may commercialize their products 'at risk' if they receive final approval of their respective ANDA filings and are not subject to a Hatch-Waxman 30-month stay. Further, we remain in infringement litigation involving the '727 patent and '343 patent with the other ANDA filers.  See Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for descriptions of our litigation with ANDA filers and related settlements. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of our infringement litigation. We may continue to incur further legal expenses related to these matters. Following our settlements with Teva, APP, Sun, Dr. Reddy's, Aurobindo and Accord, we submitted the settlement documents for each settlement to the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, or the FTC, and the U.S. Department of Justice, or the DOJ. The FTC, the DOJ and state attorney general offices could seek to challenge our settlements with Teva, APP, Sun, Dr. Reddy's, Aurobindo and Accord or a third party could initiate a private action under antitrust or other laws challenging our settlements with Teva, APP, Sun, Dr. Reddy's, Aurobindo and Accord. While we believe our settlements are lawful, we may not prevail in any such challenges or litigation, in which case the other party might obtain injunctive relief, remedial relief, or such other relief as a court may order. In any event, we may incur significant costs in the event of an investigation or in defending any such action and our business and results of operations could be materially impacted if we fail to prevail against any such challenges.. 37. Table of Contents. In Europe, the principal patent covering Angiomax expired in August 2015.  This patent covered the composition of matter of Angiomax.  As a result, we face generic competition in Europe. We are in the process of voluntarily discontinuing and withdrawing Angiomax from the market outside of North America and have ceased related commercialization activities.. We plan to file applications for patent term extension for inclisiran upon its approval.  If we do not receive patent term extensions for the periods requested by us or at all, our patent protection for inclisiran could be limited.. Among other proceedings, we are a party to a number of lawsuits that we brought against pharmaceutical companies that have notified us that they have filed ANDAs seeking approval to market generic versions of Angiomax. We cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits and proceedings. Involvement in litigation and other proceedings, regardless of its outcome, is time-consuming and expensive and may divert our management's time and attention. During the period in which these matters are pending, the uncertainty of their outcome may cause our stock price to decline. An adverse result in these matters, whether appealable or not, may cause our stock price to decline.. In addition to seeking to enforce our patent rights, we have in the past and may in the future seek to enforce our other intellectual property rights, including, for example, our trademark rights in order to prevent third parties from using the same or confusingly similar trademarks.  We may not be successful in enforcing such rights and preventing such use.  Further, certain of our trademark rights are licensed to us by third parties and, in certain circumstances, on a non-exclusive basis, which does not afford us the right to prevent third parties from using such trademarks.  Failure to adequately pursue and enforce our intellectual property rights could damage our brands, enable others to compete with our products and impair our competitive position.. If we are not able to keep our trade secrets confidential, our technology and information may be used by others to compete against us.. We rely significantly upon unpatented proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how. We seek to protect this information by confidentiality agreements and invention assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and other third-party contractors, as well as through other security measures. We may not have adequate remedies for any breach by a party to these confidentiality agreements or invention assignment agreements. In addition, our competitors may learn or independently develop our trade secrets. If our confidential information or trade secrets become publicly known, they may lose their value to us.. If we infringe or are alleged to infringe intellectual property rights of third parties, our business may be adversely affected.. Our research, development and commercialization activities, as well as any product candidates or products resulting from these activities, may infringe or be claimed to infringe patents or patent applications under which we do not hold licenses or other rights. Third parties may own or control these patents and patent applications in the United States and abroad. These third parties could bring claims against us or our collaborators that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us or our collaborators, we or they could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit.. As a result of patent infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential claims, we or our collaborators may choose or be required to seek a license from the third party and be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we or our collaborators were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we or our collaborators are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This could harm our business significantly.. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including reexamination, inter partes review, post-grant review, and interference proceedings declared by the PTO and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time.. 38. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Fluctuations in our operating results could affect the price of our common stock.. Our operating results may vary from period to period based on factors, including the timing, expenses and results of clinical trials, announcements regarding clinical trial results and product introductions by us or our competitors, the availability and timing of third-party reimbursement, including in Europe, sales and marketing expenses and the timing of regulatory approvals. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of investors and securities analysts as a result of these or other factors, the trading price of our common stock will likely decrease.. The capped call transactions may affect the value of the 2023 notes and our common stock.. In connection with the issuance of the 2023 notes, we entered into capped call transactions with respect to the 2023 notes with certain hedge counterparties. The capped call transactions will cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, the aggregate number of shares of common stock underlying the 2023 notes and are expected generally to reduce potential dilution to the common stock upon conversion of the 2023 notes in excess of the principal amount of such converted 2023 notes. In connection with establishing their initial hedges of the capped call transactions, the hedge counterparties (or their affiliates) entered into various derivative transactions with respect to the common stock concurrently with, and/or purchased the common stock shortly after, the pricing of the 2023 notes. The hedge counterparties (or their affiliates) are likely to modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to the common stock and/or by purchasing or selling the common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the 2023 notes (and are likely to do so during the settlement averaging period under the  capped call transactions, which precedes the maturity date of the 2023 notes, and on or around any earlier conversion date related to a conversion of the 2023 notes). The effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock or the 2023 notes will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock, which could affect the value of the 2023 notes and the value of our common stock, if any, that the 2023 note holders receive upon any conversion of the 2023 notes.. Our stock price has been and may in the future be volatile. This volatility may make it difficult for you to sell common stock when you want or at attractive prices.. Our common stock has been and in the future may be subject to substantial price volatility. From January 1, 2015 to March 1, 2018, the last reported sale price of our common stock ranged from a high of $55.95 per share to a low of $24.32 per share. The value of your investment could decline due to the effect upon the market price of our common stock of any of the following factors, many of which are beyond our control:. • announcements of results of clinical trials or nonclinical studies by us or third parties relating to inclisiran or Angiomax or products of our competitors or of regulatory proceedings by us or our competitors;. • approval or rejection of submissions for marketing approval for inclisiran;. • regulatory actions by the FDA limiting or revoking the use of Angiomax;. • changes in securities analysts' estimates of our financial performance;. • changes in valuations of similar companies;. • variations in our operating results;. • acquisitions and strategic partnerships;. • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors or the filing of ANDAs, NDAs or BLAs for products competitive with ours;. • the timing, amount and receipt of revenue from and margins on sales of Angiomax;. • changes in governmental regulations;. 39. Table of Contents. • developments in patent rights or other proprietary rights;. • the extent to which our products are commercially successful globally;. • developments in our ongoing litigation and significant new litigation;. • developments or issues with our contract manufacturers;. • changes in our management; and. • general market conditions.. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance. If our revenues in any particular period do not meet expectations, we may not be able to adjust our expenditures in that period, which could cause our operating results to suffer. If our operating results in any future period fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may fall by a significant amount.. The stock markets in general, and The NASDAQ Global Select Market and the market for biopharmaceutical companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations recently. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance.. We have been subject to securities class action litigation and may be subject to similar or other litigation in the future, which may divert management's attention and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In February 2014, a class action lawsuit was filed against us and certain of our current and former officers alleging, among other things, that we and certain of our current and former officers violated federal securities laws because we and certain current and former officers allegedly made misrepresentations or did not make proper disclosures regarding the results of clinical trials which tested the efficacy and safety of one of our recently divested products.  On February 12, 2016, the parties executed a stipulation for a proposed class settlement, subject to court approval, and on June 7, 2016, the Court granted final approval of the settlement.. There may be additional suits or proceedings brought in the future. Monitoring and defending against legal actions, whether or not meritorious, is time-consuming for our management and detracts from our ability to fully focus our internal resources on our business activities, and we cannot predict how long it may take to resolve these matters. In addition, we may incur substantial legal fees and costs in connection with litigation. Although we have insurance, coverage could be denied or prove to be insufficient.. Our corporate governance structure, including provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law, may prevent a change in control or management that security holders may consider desirable.. The General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover of our company or discourage a third party from attempting to take over our company. These provisions include:. • Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides that we may not enter into a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in the manner prescribed in Section 203;. • our board of directors has the authority to issue, without a vote or action of stockholders, up to 5,000,000 shares of a new series of preferred stock and to fix the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares, each of which could be superior to the rights of holders of our common stock;. • currently and until such time after our 2018 annual meeting of stockholders that our board of directors ceases to be classified, our directors may be removed only for cause and then only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the votes which all stockholders would be entitled to cast in any annual election of directors, and at all times after our board ceases to be classified, our directors may be removed with or without cause (but subject to the same 75% voting requirement as currently in effect);. 40. Table of Contents. • the size of our board of directors is determined by resolution of the board of directors;. • any vacancy on our board of directors, however occurring, including a vacancy resulting from an enlargement of our board, may only be filled by vote of a majority of our directors then in office, even if less than a quorum;. • only our board of directors may call special meetings of stockholders;. • our by-laws may be amended, altered or repealed by (i)  the affirmative vote of a majority of our directors, subject to any limitations set forth in the by-laws, or (ii) the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the votes which all the stockholders would be entitled to cast in any annual election of directors;. • stockholders must provide us with advance notice, and certain information specified in our by-laws, in connection with nominations or proposals by such stockholder for consideration at an annual meeting;. • stockholders may not take any action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; and. • our certificate of incorporation may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of a majority of our directors and the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the votes which all the stockholders would be entitled to cast in any annual election of directors (and plus any separate class vote that might in the future be required pursuant to the terms of any series of preferred stock that might be outstanding at the time any of these amendments are submitted to stockholders).. These provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of us or a change in our management that stockholders may consider favorable or beneficial. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock or our other securities.. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activist shareholders.. Proxy contests have been waged against many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry over the last few years. If faced with a proxy contest, we may not be able to successfully defend against the contest, which would be disruptive to our business. Even if we are successful, our business could be adversely affected by a proxy contest because:. • responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist shareholders may be costly and time-consuming and may disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees;. • perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in our inability to consummate potential acquisitions, collaborations or in-licensing opportunities and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners; and. • if individuals are elected to our board of directors with a specific agenda different from ours, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively and timely implement our strategic plan and create additional value for our stockholders."
