[1] "Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information provided in this Report, the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating the results of our operations, future prospects and an investment in shares of our Common Stock. Any of these factors could cause our actual financial results to differ materially from our historical results, and could give rise to events that might have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The floorcovering industry is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions and a decline in residential or commercial construction activity or corporate remodeling and refurbishment could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The floorcovering industry, in which we participate, is highly dependent on general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence and income, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels, availability of credit and demand for housing. We derive a majority of our sales from the replacement segment of the market. Therefore, economic changes that result in a significant or prolonged decline in spending for remodeling and replacement activities could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. The floorcovering industry is highly dependent on construction activity, including new construction, which is cyclical in nature. The U.S. and global economies, along with the residential and commercial markets in such economies, can negatively impact the floorcovering industry and our business. Although the impact of a decline in new construction activity is typically accompanied by an increase in remodeling and replacement activity, these activities typically lag during a cyclical downturn. Although the difficult economic conditions have improved since the last cyclical downturn in 2008, there may be additional downturns that could cause the industry to deteriorate in the foreseeable future. A significant or prolonged decline in residential or commercial construction activity could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We have significant levels of sales in certain channels of distribution and reduction in sales through these channels could adversely affect our business.. A significant amount of our sales are generated through certain retail and mass merchant channels of distribution. A significant reduction of sales through such channels could adversely affect our business.. We have significant levels of indebtedness that could result in negative consequences to us.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness relative to our equity. Insufficient cash flow, profitability or the value of our assets securing our loans could materially adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient funds to satisfy the terms of our senior loan agreements and other debt obligations. Additionally, the inability to access debt or equity markets at competitive rates in sufficient amounts to satisfy our obligations could adversely impact our business.. Uncertainty in the credit market or downturns in the economy and our business could affect our overall availability and cost of credit.. Uncertainty in the credit markets could affect the availability and cost of credit. Despite recent improvement in overall economic conditions, market conditions could impact our ability to obtain financing in the future, including any financing necessary to refinance existing indebtedness. The cost and terms of such financing is uncertain. Continued operating losses could affect our ability to continue to access the credit markets under our current terms and conditions. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results.. We face intense competition in our industry, which could decrease demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.. The floorcovering industry is highly competitive. We face competition from a number of domestic manufacturers and independent distributors of floorcovering products and, in certain product areas, foreign manufacturers. Significant consolidation within the floorcovering industry has caused a number of our existing and potential competitors to grow significantly larger and have greater. Table of Contents. 7. access to resources and capital than we do. Maintaining our competitive position may require us to make substantial additional investments in our product development efforts, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. These additional investments may be limited by our access to capital, as well as restrictions set forth in our credit facilities. Competitive pressures and the accelerated growth of hard surface alternatives, have resulted in decreased demand for our soft floorcovering products and in the loss of market share to hard surface products. As a result, competition from providers of other soft surfaces has intensified and may result in decreased demand for our products. In addition, we face, and will continue to face, competitive pressures on our sales price and cost of our products. As a result of any of these factors, there could be a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability.. If we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences and successfully develop and introduce new, innovative and updated products, we may not be able to maintain or increase our net revenues and profitability.. Our success depends on our ability to identify and originate product trends as well as to anticipate and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. All of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, long lead times for certain of our products may make it hard for us to quickly respond to changes in consumer demands. Our new products may not receive consumer acceptance as consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of flooring products or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. Failure to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing consumer preferences could lead to, among other things, lower sales and excess inventory levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. Raw material prices may vary and the inability to either offset or pass on such cost increases or avoid passing on decreases larger than the cost decrease to our customers could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We require substantial amounts of raw materials to produce our products, including nylon and polyester yarn, as well as wool yarns, synthetic backing, latex, and dyes. Substantially all of the raw materials we require are purchased from outside sources. The prices of raw materials and fuel-related costs vary significantly with market conditions. The fact that we source a significant amount of raw materials means that several months of raw materials and work in process are moving through our supply chain at any point in time. We are sourcing the majority of our new luxury vinyl flooring and wood product lines from overseas.  We are not able to predict whether commodity costs will significantly increase or decrease in the future. If commodity costs increase in the future and we are not able to reduce or eliminate the effect of the cost increases by reducing production costs or implementing price increases, our profit margins could decrease. If commodity costs decline, we may experience pressures from customers to reduce our selling prices. The timing of any price reductions and decreases in commodity costs may not align. As a result, our margins could be affected.. Unanticipated termination or interruption of our arrangements with third-party suppliers of nylon yarn could have a material adverse effect on us.. Nylon yarn is the principal raw material used in our floorcovering products. A significant portion of such yarn is purchased from one supplier. Our yarn supplier is one of the leading fiber suppliers within the industry and is the exclusive supplier of certain innovative branded fiber technology upon which we rely. We believe our offerings of this innovative fiber technology contribute materially to the competitiveness of our products. While we believe there are other sources of nylon yarns, an unanticipated termination or interruption of our current supply of branded nylon yarn could have a material adverse effect on our ability to supply our product to our customers and have a material adverse impact on our competitiveness if we are unable to replace our nylon supplier with another supplier that can offer similar innovative and branded fiber products. An interruption in the supply of these or other raw materials or sourced products used in our business or in the supply of suitable substitute materials or products would disrupt our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We rely on information systems in managing our operations and any system failure or deficiencies of such systems may have an adverse effect on our business.. Our businesses rely on sophisticated systems to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data. We rely on these systems to, among other things facilitate the purchase, manufacture and distribution of our products; receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; and to maintain accurate and up-to-date operating and financial data for the compilation of management information. We rely on our computer hardware, software and network for the storage, delivery and transmission of data to our sales and distribution systems, and certain of our production processes are managed and conducted by computer. Any damage by unforeseen events or system failure which causes interruptions to the input, retrieval and transmission of data or increase in the service time, whether caused by human error, natural disasters, power loss, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism, various forms of cybercrimes including and not limited to hacking, intrusions and malware or otherwise, could disrupt our normal operations. There can be no assurance that we can effectively carry out our disaster recovery plan to handle the failure of our information systems, or that we will be able to restore our operational capacity within sufficient time to avoid material disruption to our business. The occurrence of any of these events could cause unanticipated disruptions in service, decreased customer service and customer satisfaction and harm to our reputation, which could result in loss of customers, increased operating expenses and financial losses. Any such events could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.. Table of Contents. 8. The long-term performance of our business relies on our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel.. To be successful, we must attract, develop and retain qualified and talented personnel in management, sales, marketing, product design and operations.  We compete with other floorcovering companies for these employees and invest resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them.  The failure to attract, develop, motivate and retain key employees could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may experience certain risks associated with internal expansion, acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments.. We have recently embarked on several strategic and tactical initiatives, including aggressive internal expansion, acquisitions and investment in new products, to strengthen our future and to enable us to return to sustained growth and profitability. Growth through expansion and acquisition involves risks, many of which may continue to affect us after the acquisition or expansion. An acquired company, operation or internal expansion may not achieve the levels of revenue, profitability and production that we expect. The combination of an acquired company's business with ours involves risks. Further, internally generated growth that involves expansion involves risks as well. Such risks include the integration of computer systems, alignment of human resource policies and the retention of valued talent. Reported earnings may not meet expectations because of goodwill and intangible asset impairment, other asset impairments, increased interest costs and issuance of additional securities or debt as a result of these acquisitions. We may also face challenges in consolidating functions and integrating our organizations, procedures, operations and product lines in a timely and efficient manner.. The diversion of management attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, level of expenses and operating results. Failure to successfully manage and integrate an acquisition with our existing operations or expansion of our existing operations could lead to the potential loss of customers of the acquired or existing business, the potential loss of employees who may be vital to the new or existing operations, the potential loss of business opportunities or other adverse consequences that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if integration occurs successfully, failure of the expansion or acquisition to achieve levels of anticipated sales growth, profitability or productivity, or otherwise perform as expected, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to various environmental, safety and health regulations that may subject us to costs, liabilities and other obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to various environmental, safety and health and other regulations that may subject us to costs, liabilities and other obligations which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The applicable requirements under these laws are subject to amendment, to the imposition of new or additional requirements and to changing interpretations of agencies or courts. We could incur material expenditures to comply with new or existing regulations, including fines and penalties and increased costs of our operations. Additionally, future laws, ordinances, regulations or regulatory guidelines could give rise to additional compliance or remediation costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, producer responsibility regulations regarding end-of-life disposal could impose additional cost and complexity to our business.. Various federal, state and local environmental laws govern the use of our current and former facilities. These laws govern such matters as:. • Discharge to air and water;. • Handling and disposal of solid and hazardous substances and waste, and. • Remediation of contamination from releases of hazardous substances in our facilities and off-site disposal locations.. Our operations also are governed by laws relating to workplace safety and worker health, which, among other things, establish noise standards and regulate the use of hazardous materials and chemicals in the workplace. We have taken, and will continue to take, steps to comply with these laws. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental or safety regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities. However, we cannot ensure that complying with these environmental or health and safety laws and requirements will not adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may be exposed to litigation, claims and other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business relating to our products or business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to a variety of work-related and product-related claims, lawsuits and legal proceedings, including those relating to product liability, product warranty, product recall, personal injury, and other matters that are inherently subject to many uncertainties regarding the possibility of a loss to our business. Such matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to successfully defend against or resolve these matters or if our insurance coverage is insufficient to satisfy any judgments against us or settlements relating to these matters. Although we have product liability insurance, the policies may not provide coverage for certain claims against us or may. Table of Contents. 9. not be sufficient to cover all possible liabilities. Further, we may not be able to maintain insurance at commercially acceptable premium levels. Additionally, adverse publicity arising from claims made against us, even if the claims are not successful, could adversely affect our reputation or the reputation and sales of our products.. Our business operations could suffer significant losses from natural disasters, catastrophes, fire or other unexpected events.. Many of our business activities involve substantial investments in manufacturing facilities and many products are produced at a limited number of locations. These facilities could be materially damaged by natural disasters, such as floods, tornadoes, hurricanes and earthquakes, or by fire or other unexpected events such as adverse weather conditions or other disruptions to our facilities, supply chain or our customer's facilities. We could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from such events, including damage to our reputation, and/or suffer material losses in operational capacity, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations."
