[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Sports Business. Our Sports Business Faces Intense and Wide-Ranging Competition, Which May Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.. The success of a sports business, like ours, is dependent upon the performance and/or popularity of its franchises. Our Knicks and Rangers and other sports franchises compete, in varying respects and degrees, with other live sporting events, and with sporting events delivered over television networks, radio, the Internet and online services, mobile applications and other alternative sources. For example, our sports teams compete for attendance, viewership and advertising with a wide range of alternatives available in the New York City metropolitan area. During some or all of the basketball and hockey seasons, our sports teams face competition, in varying respects and degrees, from professional baseball (including the Yankees and the Mets), professional football (including the Giants and the Jets), professional soccer (including the New York Red Bulls and the New York City Football Club) and each other. For fans who prefer the unique experience of NHL hockey, we must compete with two other NHL hockey teams located in the New York City metropolitan area (the Islanders and the Devils) as well as, in varying respects and degrees, with other NHL hockey teams and the NHL itself. Similarly, for those fans attracted to the equally unique experience of NBA basketball, we must compete with another NBA team located in the New York City metropolitan area (the Nets) as well as, in varying respects and degrees, with other NBA teams and the NBA itself.. As a result of the large number of options available, we face strong competition for the New York area sports fan. We must compete with these other sports teams and sporting events, in varying respects and degrees, including on the basis of the quality of the teams we field, their success in the leagues in which they compete, our ability to provide an entertaining environment at our games, prices we charge for tickets and the viewing availability of our teams on multiple media alternatives. Given the nature of sports, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively, including with companies that may have greater resources than we have, and as a consequence, our business and results of operations may be materially negatively affected.. Our Businesses Are Substantially Dependent on the Continued Popularity and/or Competitive Success of the Knicks and Rangers, Which Cannot Be Assured.. Our financial results have historically been dependent on, and are expected to continue to depend in large part on, the Knicks and Rangers remaining popular with our fan bases and, in varying degrees, on the teams achieving on-court and on-ice success, which can generate fan enthusiasm, resulting in sustained ticket, premium seating, suite, concession and merchandise sales during the season. In addition, the popularity of our sports teams can impact television ratings, which could affect the long-term value of the media rights for the Knicks and/or Rangers. Furthermore, success in the regular season may qualify one of our sports teams for participation in post-season playoffs, which provides us with additional revenue by increasing the number of games played by our sports teams and, more importantly, by generating increased excitement and interest in our sports teams, which can improve attendance and television ratings in subsequent seasons. There can be no assurance that any of our sports teams, including the Knicks and Rangers, will maintain continued popularity or compete in post-season play in the future.. Our Basketball and Hockey Decisions, Especially Those Concerning Player Selection and Salaries, May Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.. Creating and maintaining our sports teams' popularity and/or on-court and on-ice competitiveness is key to the success of our sports business. Accordingly, efforts to improve our revenues and earnings from operations from period to period may be secondary to actions that management believes will generate long-term value. As with other sports teams, the competitive positions of our sports teams depend primarily on our ability to develop, obtain and retain talented players, coaches and team executives, for which we compete with other professional sports teams. Our efforts in this regard may include, among other things, trading for highly compensated players, signing draft picks, free agents or current players to new contracts, engaging in salary arbitration with existing players, terminating and waiving players and replacing team executives. Any of these actions could increase expenses for a particular period, subject to any salary cap restrictions contained in the respective leagues' CBAs. There can be no assurance that any actions taken by management to increase our long-term value will be successful.. 16. Table of Contents. A significant factor in our ability to attract and retain talented players is player compensation. NBA and NHL player salaries have generally increased significantly and may continue to increase. Although CBAs between the NBA and the NBPA and the NHL and the NHLPA generally cap league-wide player salaries at a prescribed percentage of league-wide revenues, we may pay our players different aggregate salaries and a different proportion of our revenues than other NBA or NHL franchises. Future CBAs may increase the percentage of league-wide revenues to which NBA or NHL players are entitled or impose other conditions, which may further increase our costs. In addition, we may also be obligated to pay the NBA a luxury tax each year, the calculation of which is determined by a formula based on the aggregate salaries paid to our NBA players. See \"Part II  -  Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  MSG Sports  -  Expenses  -  Player Salaries, Escrow System/Revenue Sharing and NBA Luxury Tax.\". We have incurred, and may in the future incur, significant charges for costs associated with transactions relating to players on our sports teams for season-ending and career-ending injuries and for trades, waivers and contract terminations of players and other team personnel, including team executives. These transactions can result in significant charges as the Company recognizes the estimated ultimate costs of these events in the period in which they occur, although amounts due to these individuals are generally paid over their remaining contract terms. These expenses add to the volatility of the results of our MSG Sports segment.. The Actions of the Basketball and Hockey Leagues May Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.. The governing bodies of the NBA (including the WNBA and the NBAGL) and the NHL have certain rights under certain circumstances to take actions that they deem to be in the best interests of their respective leagues, which may not necessarily be consistent with maximizing our results of operations and which could affect our sports teams in ways that are different than the impact on other sports teams. Certain of these decisions by the NBA or the NHL could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations. From time to time, we may disagree with or challenge actions the leagues take or the power and authority they assert. The following discussion highlights certain areas in which decisions of the NBA and the NHL could materially affect our businesses.. The NBA and the NHL may assert control over certain matters, under certain circumstances, that may affect our revenues such as the national and international rights to telecast the games of league members, including the Knicks and Rangers, licensing of the rights to produce and sell merchandise bearing the logos and/or other intellectual property of our sports teams and the leagues, and the Internet-based activities of our sports teams. The NBA and NHL have each entered into agreements regarding the national and international telecasts of NBA and NHL games. We receive a share of the income the NBA and the NHL generate from these contracts, which expire from time to time. There can be no assurance that the NBA or the NHL will be able to renew these contracts following their expiration on terms as favorable to us as those in the current agreements or that we will continue to receive the same level of revenues in the future. We receive significant revenues from MSG Networks for the right to telecast games of the Knicks and Rangers. Changes to league rules, regulations and/or agreements, including national and international media rights, could impact the availability of games covered by our local media rights and could negatively affect the rights fees we receive from MSG Networks and our business and results of operations. The sports leagues have asserted control over certain other important decisions, under certain circumstances, such as the length and format of the playing season, preseason and playoff schedules, the operating territories of the member teams, admission of new members, franchise relocations, labor relations with the players associations, collective bargaining, free agency, luxury taxes and revenue sharing. The esports leagues have adopted a number of rules and regulations governing the length and format of the playing season, how teams may generate revenue, and player rosters. Decisions on these matters, some of which are also subject to the terms of a CBA, may materially negatively affect our business and results of operations. In addition, the NBA imposes a luxury tax and escrow system with respect to player salaries and a revenue sharing plan, and the NHL imposes an escrow system with respect to player salaries and a revenue sharing plan. For fiscal year 2018, the Knicks and Rangers recorded approximately $57.7 million in estimated revenue sharing expenses, net of escrow receipts. The actual amounts for the 2017-18 season may vary significantly from the estimate based on actual operating results for the respective leagues and all teams for the season and other factors. For a discussion of the NBA luxury tax impacts, see \" -  Our Basketball and Hockey Decisions, Especially Those Concerning Player Selection and Salaries, May Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.\". The NBA and the NHL have imposed certain restrictions on the ability of owners to undertake some types of transactions in respect of teams, including a change in ownership and a relocation of a team. The NBA and NHL have also imposed restrictions on certain types and/or amounts of financing transactions. In certain instances, these restrictions could impair our ability to proceed with a transaction that is in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders if we were unable to obtain any required league approvals in a timely manner or at all.. 17. Table of Contents. The leagues impose certain rules that define, under certain circumstances, the territories in which we operate, including the markets in which our games can be telecast. Changes to these rules could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.. Each league's governing body has imposed a number of rules, regulations, guidelines, bulletins, directives, policies and agreements upon its teams. Changes to these provisions may apply to our teams and their personnel, and the Company as a whole, regardless of whether we agree or disagree with such changes, have voted against such changes or have challenged them through other means, and it is possible that any such changes could materially negatively affect our business and results of operations to the extent they are ultimately determined to bind our teams. The commissioners of each of the NBA and NHL assert significant authority to take certain actions on behalf of their respective leagues under certain circumstances. Decisions by the commissioners of the NBA and the NHL, including on the matters described above, may materially negatively affect our businesses and results of operations. The leagues' governing documents and our agreements with the leagues purport to limit the manner in which we may challenge decisions and actions by a league commissioner or the league itself.. Injuries to Players on Our Sports Teams Could Hinder Our Success.. To the degree that our financial results are dependent on our sports teams' popularity and/or on-court and on-ice success, the likelihood of achieving such popularity or competitive success may, given the nature of sports, be substantially impacted by serious and/or untimely injuries to key players. Nearly all of our Knicks and Rangers players, including those with multi-year contracts, have partially or fully guaranteed contracts, meaning that in some cases (subject to the terms of the applicable player contract and CBA), a player or his estate may be entitled to receive his salary even if the player dies, or is unable to play as a result of injury. These salaries represent significant financial commitments for our sports teams. We are generally insured against having to pay salaries in the event of a player's death and seek to obtain disability insurance policies for substantially all of our material player contracts. In the event of injuries sustained resulting in lost services (as defined in the applicable insurance policies), generally the insurance policies provide for payment to us of a portion of the player's salary for the remaining term of the contract or until the player can resume play, in each case following a deductible number of missed games. Such insurance may not be available in every circumstance or on terms that are commercially feasible or such insurance may contain significant dollar limits and/or exclusions from coverage for preexisting medical conditions. We may choose not to obtain (or may not be able to obtain) such insurance in some cases and we may change coverage levels (or be unable to change coverage levels) in the future.. In the absence of disability insurance, we may be obligated to pay all of an injured player's salary. In addition, player disability insurance policies do not cover any NBA luxury tax that we may be required to pay under the NBA CBA. For purposes of determining NBA luxury tax under the NBA CBA, salary payable to an injured player is included in team salary, unless and until that player's salary is removed from the team salary for purposes of calculating NBA luxury tax which, pursuant to the terms of the NBA CBA, requires a waiting period of one year and satisfaction of other conditions. Replacement of an injured player may result in an increase in salary and NBA luxury tax expense for us.. Risks Relating to Our Entertainment Business. Our Entertainment Business Faces Intense and Wide-Ranging Competition Which May Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.. Our entertainment business competes, in certain respects and to varying degrees, with other leisure-time activities such as television, radio, motion pictures, sporting events, other live performances, restaurants and nightlife venues, the Internet, and online and mobile services, including sites for online content distribution, video on demand and other alternative sources of entertainment and information, in addition to competing for concerts with other event venues, and other restaurants and nightlife venues, for total entertainment dollars in our marketplace. The success of our entertainment business is largely dependent on the continued success of our Christmas Spectacular and the TAO Group business, and the availability of, and our venues' ability to attract, concerts, family shows and other events, competition for which is intense, and the ability of acts to attract strong attendance at our venues. For example, The Garden, The Hulu Theater at Madison Square Garden, Radio City Music Hall and the Beacon Theatre all compete with other entertainment options in the New York City metropolitan area. The Forum, The Chicago Theatre and the Wang Theatre face similar competition from other entertainment options in their respective markets and elsewhere. A proposed new stadium in Inglewood, CA, is reportedly scheduled to open in 2020. In addition, there are plans to open an indoor arena as part of the same complex in Inglewood. Either of these venues could materially adversely affect the performance of the Forum. The restaurant, nightlife and hospitality industries are intensely competitive with respect to, among other things, service, price, food quality and presentation, location, atmosphere, overall experience, and the nature and condition of the setting. Competitors of TAO Group business include a large and diverse group of well-recognized upscale restaurants and nightlife venues and brands. Some of our competitors may have a larger network of venues and/or greater financial resources.. 18. Table of Contents. Further, in order to maintain the competitive positions of The Garden and our other venues, we must invest on a continuous basis in state-of-the-art technology. In addition, we must maintain a competitive pricing structure for events that may be held in our venues, many of which have alternative venue options available to them in New York and other cities. In addition, we invest a substantial amount in our Christmas Spectacular and in new productions to continue to attract audiences. We cannot assure you that such investments will generate revenues that are sufficient to justify our investment or even that exceed our expenses.. The Success of Our Entertainment Business Depends on the Continued Popularity of Our Live Productions, Particularly the Christmas Spectacular, the Decline of Which Could Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.. The financial results of our entertainment business are dependent on the popularity of our live productions, particularly the Christmas Spectacular, which represented 15% of our MSG Entertainment segment's revenues in fiscal year 2018. Should the popularity of the Christmas Spectacular decline, our revenues from ticket sales, and concession and merchandise sales would likely also decline, and we might not be able to replace the lost revenue with revenues from other sources.. We Plan to Build and Operate Entertainment Venues in Las Vegas and London and are Exploring Other Potential Sites. These State-of-the-Art Venues Will Use Cutting-Edge Technologies and Will Require Significant Capital Investment by the Company. There Can Be No Assurance That The Company's Sphere Projects Will Be Successful.. The Company is moving forward with its venue strategy to create, build and operate new music and entertainment-focused venues  -  called MSG Sphere - that will utilize cutting-edge technologies to create the next generation of immersive experiences. There is no assurance that the MSG Sphere in Las Vegas or London will be successful. We are building the first MSG Sphere in Las Vegas with the goal of opening in fiscal year 2021. Subject to the timely completion of the planning and governmental approval process, our goal is to have our London venue debut approximately one year after the Las Vegas venue. Our primary focus now is to build the Las Vega and London MSG Spheres, but we also continue to explore additional domestic and international markets where these next-generation venues can be successful. While both the Las Vegas and London venues would have a scalable capacity of more than 18,000 seats, moving forward, our goal is to develop a venue model that will accommodate a wide range of sizes and seating capacities  -  from large-scale to more intimate  -  based on the needs of any individual market.. Given the transformative nature of these venues, we expect that construction of these venues will require greater capital spend than would be required for a traditional arena-sized venue. As is the case with any large-scale real estate development, as the Company moves forward with the planning and construction of these and other major new venues, the Company may face unexpected project delays and costs. In light of the ambitious and unique design of MSG Sphere, including the use of technologies that have not previously been employed in major entertainment venues, the risk of delays and higher than anticipated costs are elevated. In connection with the construction of the MSG Sphere venues, the Company will need to obtain additional capital beyond what is available from cash on hand, cash flows from operations and borrowings under our revolving credit facilities. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such capital. The NBA and NHL have imposed restrictions on certain types and/or amounts of financing transactions. See also \"  -  The Actions of the Basketball and Hockey Leagues May Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.\". While the Company believes that these next-generation venues will enable new experiences and innovative opportunities to engage with audiences, there can be no assurance that customers, artists, promoters, advertisers and marketing partners will embrace this new platform.. Our Entertainment Business is Highly Sensitive to Customer Tastes and Depends on Our Ability to Attract Artists and Events.. The success of our entertainment business depends in part upon our ability to offer live entertainment that is popular with customers. We contract with promoters and others to provide performers and events at our venues. There may be a limited number of popular artists, groups or events that can attract audiences to our venues, and our entertainment segment would suffer to the extent that we are unable to continue to attract such artists, groups and events to perform at our venues.. 19. Table of Contents. TAO Group Plans to Add a Significant Number of New Venues. This Will Require Additional Capital and There Can Be No Guarantee of Success.. TAO Group has an aggressive plan to add new venues. In pursuing its expansion strategy, TAO Group faces a number of risks associated with cost overruns and construction delays, obtaining financing and operating in new or existing markets. In addition, TAO Group faces the risk that new venues may not be successful and that TAO Group may lose all or a part of its investment in existing and new venues, which could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.. Our Strategy for Our Entertainment Business Includes the Development of New Live Productions and the Possible Addition of New Venues, Each of Which Could Require Us to Make Considerable Investments for Which There Can Be No Guarantee of Success.. As part of our business strategy, we intend to develop new productions, attractions and live entertainment events, which may include expansions or enhancements of our existing productions or relationships or the creation of entirely new live productions. Expansion or enhancement of productions and/or the development of new productions, attractions and live entertainment events could require significant upfront investment in sets, staging, creative processes, licensing of intellectual property, casting and advertising and dislocation of other alternative sources of entertainment that may have played in our venues absent these productions. To the extent that any efforts at expanding or enhancing productions or creating new productions do not result in a viable live show, or to the extent that any such productions do not achieve expected levels of popularity among audiences, we may be subject to a write-down of all or a portion of such investments. In addition, any delay in launching such productions or enhancements could result in the incurrence of operating costs which may not be recouped. In March 2016, we wrote off approximately $41.8 million of deferred production costs of the New York Spectacular Starring the Radio City Rockettes (\"New York Spectacular\"). Subsequently, due to assessments of the show's creative direction, timing and scale, the Company wrote off the remaining balance of deferred production costs related to the New York Spectacular in the amount of $33.6 million during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017.. A Lack of Availability of Suitable Locations for New TAO Group Venues or a Decline in the Quality of the Locations of Current TAO Group Venues May Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.. The success of the existing TAO Group venues depends in large part on their locations. Possible declines in neighborhoods where TAO Group venues are located or adverse economic conditions in areas surrounding those neighborhoods could result in reduced sales in those venues. Further, TAO Group's growth strategy is based, in part, on the expansion of TAO Group venues into new geographic markets where its business has not previously operated. Desirable locations for new openings or for the relocation of existing venues may not be available at an acceptable cost when TAO Group identifies a particular opportunity for a new venue or relocation. In addition, the success of new TAO Group venues tends to expand or revive interest in TAO Group venues that have been in operation for an extended period of time. Thus, the inability to successfully open new TAO Group venues could also negatively impact the existing TAO Group business. The occurrence of one or more of these events could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.. The Success of TAO Group Depends in Part Upon the Continued Retention of Certain Key Personnel.. The success of TAO Group depends, in part, on certain key members of its management, including its four original founders. The expertise of TAO Group's senior management team in developing, acquiring, reinventing, integrating and growing businesses, particularly those focused on entertainment and hospitality, has been and will continue to be a significant factor in the growth of TAO Group's business and the ability of TAO Group to execute its business strategy. The loss of such key personnel could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.. The Geographic Concentration of Our Businesses Could Subject Us to Greater Risk Than Our Competitors and Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.. The Company primarily operates in three markets  -  New York City, Las Vegas and Los Angeles  -  and, as a result, is subject to greater degrees of risk than competitors with more operating properties or that operate in more markets. The Garden, The Hulu Theater at Madison Square Garden, Radio City Music Hall and the Beacon Theatre are all located in New York City, our sports teams are all based in the New York City metropolitan area, and TAO Group currently operates 12 venues in New York City, including the food and beverage operations at the Dream Downtown and Dream Midtown hotels. In addition, TAO Group currently operates six venues in Las Vegas, where the Company plans to construct its first MSG Sphere. The Forum is located in Inglewood, California, which is adjacent to Los Angeles, where TAO Group currently operates five venues. Therefore, the Company is particularly vulnerable to adverse events (including acts of terrorism, natural disasters, weather conditions, labor market disruptions and government actions) and economic conditions in New York City, Las Vegas, Los Angeles and surrounding areas. Any adverse event or conditions in those markets could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.. 20. Table of Contents. Negative Publicity with Respect to Any of the Existing or Future TAO Group Brands Could Reduce Sales at One or More of the Existing or Future TAO Group Venues and Make the TAO Group Brands Less Valuable, Which Could Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.. The success of TAO Group depends upon the reputation and popularity of the TAO Group venues and brands. If customers have a poor experience at a restaurant or nightlife venue owned, operated or managed by TAO Group, the TAO Group venues may experience a decrease in customer traffic. Negative publicity with respect to any of the TAO Group brands could adversely affect TAO Group. Such publicity could relate to food quality, illness, injury or other health concerns, poor service, negative experiences or other problems and reduce demand in the TAO Group business. The risk of negative publicity is exacerbated by the growing influence of social media, which can result in immediate and widespread dissemination of information (which may be false) with limited ability on our part to respond or correct such reports.. Increases in Labor Costs Could Slow the Growth of or Harm TAO Group.. TAO Group has a substantial number of hourly employees whose compensation may be impacted by increases in government-imposed minimum wage rates. In addition, TAO Group employs a substantial number of employees whose income is supplemented through the receipt of gratuities. In certain jurisdictions in which TAO Group operates, the minimum hourly wage to which gratuity eligible employees are entitled under law is lower than the minimum wage required to be paid to other employees, subject to the former's receipt of sufficient gratuities. The difference between the two minimum rates is referred to as a \"tip credit\".  Governmental entities have acted to increase minimum wage rates in jurisdictions where TAO Group operates or may operate in the future. In addition, governmental entities have acted to eliminate, or considered the elimination of, tip credits in the application of minimum wage laws. As minimum wage rates increase, or if tip credits are reduced or eliminated, TAO Group may need to increase wages paid to a substantial number of employees, which will increase the labor costs of TAO Group. In addition, TAO Group's labor costs may increase if certain employees elect to be union represented and to collectively bargain their compensation. TAO Group may be unable offset these increased labor cost either through increased prices or changes to its operations, which could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.. General Risks. Our Business Has Been Adversely Impacted and May, in the Future, Be Materially Adversely Impacted by an Economic Downturn and Financial Instability or Changes in Consumer Tastes and Preferences.. Our businesses depend upon the ability and willingness of consumers and businesses to purchase tickets (including season tickets) at our venues, license suites at The Garden, spend on concessions and merchandise, and drive continued advertising and sponsorship revenues. Further, the restaurant, nightlife and hospitality industries are often affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions, discretionary spending priorities, demographic trends, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing businesses.. As a result, instability and weakness of the U.S. and global economies and the negative effects on consumers' and businesses' discretionary spending may materially negatively affect our business and results of operations.. We Have in Past Periods Incurred Substantial Operating Losses, Negative Adjusted Operating Income and Negative Cash Flow and There is No Assurance We Will Have Operating Income, Positive Adjusted Operating Income or Positive Cash Flow in the Future.. We have in past periods incurred operating losses and negative cash flow and there is no assurance that we will have operating income or positive cash flow in the future. Our MSG Entertainment segment recognized operating losses during the years ended June 30, 2017, 2016 and 2014 and our MSG Sports segment recognized an operating loss during the year ended June 30, 2014. Significant operating losses may limit our ability to raise necessary financing, or to do so on favorable terms, as such losses could be taken into account by potential investors, lenders and the organizations that issue investment ratings on indebtedness. See \"Part II  -  Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  MSG Sports  -  Factors Affecting Operating Results\" and \"Part II  -  Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  MSG Entertainment  -  Factors Affecting Operating Results.\". 21. Table of Contents. Our Operating Results and Cash Flow Can Vary Substantially from Period to Period.. Our operating results and cash flow reflect significant variation from period to period and will continue to do so in the future. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not necessarily be meaningful and the operating results of one period are not indicative of our financial performance during a full fiscal year. This variability may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Weather or Other Conditions May Impact Events at Our Venues, Which May Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.. Weather or other conditions, including natural disasters, acts of terrorism and similar events, in the New York metropolitan area and other locations in which we own or operate venues may affect patron attendance as well as sales of concessions and merchandise, among other things. Weather conditions may also require us to cancel or postpone events. Any of these events may have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.. Our Business Could Be Adversely Affected by Terrorist Activity or the Threat of Terrorist Activity and Other Developments that Discourage Congregation at Prominent Places of Public Assembly.. The success of our businesses is dependent upon the willingness and ability of patrons to attend events at our venues. The venues we operate, like all prominent places of public assembly, could be the target of terrorist activities or other actions that discourage attendance. Any such activity at or near one of our venues or other similar venues could result in a material negative effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, terrorist activity or other actions that discourage attendance at other locations, or even the threat of such activity, could result in reduced attendance at our venues. Similarly, a major epidemic or pandemic, or the threat of such an event, could adversely affect attendance at our events.. We May Pursue Acquisitions and Other Strategic Transactions to Complement or Expand Our Business that May Not Be Successful; We Have Significant Investments in Businesses We Do Not Control.. From time to time, we explore opportunities to purchase or invest in other businesses, venues or assets that we believe will complement, enhance or expand our current business or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities, including opportunities that may differ from the Company's current business. Any transactions that we are able to identify and complete may involve risks, including the commitment of significant capital, the incurrence of indebtedness, the payment of advances, the diversion of management's attention and resources, litigation or other claims in connection with acquisitions or against companies we invest in or acquire, our lack of control over certain joint venture companies and other minority investments, the inability to successfully integrate such business into our operations or even if successfully integrated, the risk of not achieving the intended results and the exposure to losses if the underlying transactions or ventures are not successful. We have significant investments in businesses that we account for under the equity method of accounting. These investments have generated operating losses each year and certain have required additional investments from us in the form of equity or loans. We incurred losses in our equity method investments of approximately $7.8 million, $30.0 million, $19.1 million, and $40.6 million in the 2018, 2017, 2016 and 2015 fiscal years, respectively. There can be no assurance that these investments will become profitable individually or in the aggregate or that they will not require material additional funding from us in the future.. We do not control the day-to-day operations of these investments. We have in the past written down and, to the extent that these investments are not successful in the future, we may write down of all or a portion of such investments. Additionally, these businesses are subject to laws, rules and other circumstances, and have risks in their operations, which may be similar to, or different from, those to which we are subject. Any of the foregoing risks could result in a material negative effect on our business and results of operations or adversely impact the value of our investments.. We Do Not Own All of Our Venues and Our Failure to Renew Our Leases or Venue Management Agreements on Economically Attractive Terms May Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations; Our Lease on Radio City Music Hall Requires Us to Maintain a Certain Net Worth or Meet Certain Other Requirements.. The lease on Radio City Music Hall expires in 2023. We have the option to renew the lease at fair market value for an additional ten years by providing two years' notice prior to the initial expiration date. Similarly, we lease the Beacon Theatre pursuant to a lease that expires in 2026. If we are unable to renew these leases on economically attractive terms, our business could be materially negatively affected. Our booking agreement with the Wang Theatre in Boston expires in 2019. The expiration of the booking agreement will not have a material negative effect on our business. MSG Sports & Entertainment, LLC, the entity that guarantees the Radio City Music Hall lease, is required to maintain a certain net worth or, if such net worth is not maintained, the entity must either post a letter of credit or provide cash collateral. The MSG Sphere Las Vegas will be constructed on property we lease from Sands under a 50 year lease.. 22. Table of Contents. TAO Group operates venues under various agreements that include leases with third parties and management agreements. The long-term success of TAO Group will depend in part on the availability of real estate, the ability to lease this real estate and the ability to enter into management agreements. As many of these agreements are with third parties over whom TAO Group has little or no control, they may be unable to renew these agreements or enter into new agreements on acceptable terms or at all, and may be unable to obtain favorable agreements with venues. The ability to renew these agreements and obtain new agreements on favorable terms depends on a number of other factors, many of which are beyond the control of us or TAO Group, such as national and local business conditions and competition from other businesses. There can be no assurance that TAO Group will be able to renew these agreements on acceptable terms or at all, or that they will be able to obtain attractive agreements with appropriate venues or real estate owners, which could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.. We Are Subject to Extensive Governmental Regulation and Our Failure to Comply with These Regulations May Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations.. We hold liquor licenses at each of our venues and are subject to licensing requirements with respect to the sale of alcoholic beverages in the jurisdictions in which we serve those beverages. Failure to receive or retain, or the suspension of, liquor licenses or permits could interrupt or terminate our ability to serve alcoholic beverages at the applicable venue and could have a material negative effect on our business and our results of operations. Additional regulation relating to liquor licenses may limit our activities in the future or significantly increase the cost of compliance, or both. In the jurisdictions in which our venues are located, we are subject to statutes that generally provide that serving alcohol to a visibly intoxicated or minor patron is a violation of the law and may provide for strict liability for certain damages arising out of such violations. Our liability insurance coverage may not be adequate or available to cover any potential liability.. We and our venues are subject to environmental laws and regulations relating to the use, disposal, storage, emission and release of hazardous and non-hazardous substances, as well as zoning and noise level restrictions which may affect, among other things, the operations of our venues. Additionally, certain laws and regulations could hold us strictly, jointly and severally responsible for the remediation of hazardous substance contamination at our facilities or at third-party waste disposal sites, and could hold us responsible for any personal or property damage related to any contamination. Any requirements to dispose of, or remediate, such hazardous or non-hazardous materials and any associated costs and impact on operations of such efforts may be heightened as a result of the purchase, construction or renovation of a venue.. Our venues are subject to zoning and building regulations including permits relating to the operation of The Garden. In addition, The Garden requires a zoning special permit. The original permit was granted by the New York City Planning Commission in 1963 and renewed in July 2013 for 10 years. In connection with the renewal, certain government officials and special interest groups sought to use the renewal process to pressure us to improve Penn Station or to relocate The Garden. There can be no assurance regarding the future renewal of the permit or the terms thereof.. In January 2016, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo announced a request for proposal (\"RFP\") process for proposals on transforming Penn Station. For example, he noted the possibility of seeking to move The Hulu Theater at Madison Square Garden to create a new Penn Station entrance, but noted that New York State was ready to explore all RFP proposals. The Governor has not announced a final decision on any of the proposals received. We have no assurance on how the final approved proposal may impact the Madison Square Garden Complex.. Our businesses are, and may in the future be, subject to a variety of other laws and regulations, including licensing, permitting, and historic designation and similar requirements; working conditions, labor, immigration and employment laws; health, safety and sanitation requirements; compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act; and privacy laws.. Our failure to comply with applicable governmental laws and regulations, or to maintain necessary permits or licenses, could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.. 23. Table of Contents. Our Properties Are Subject to, and Benefit from, Certain Easements, the Availability of Which May Not Continue on Terms Favorable to Us or at All.. Our properties are subject to, and benefit from, certain easements. For example, the \"breezeway\" into the Madison Square Garden Complex from Seventh Avenue in New York City is a significant easement that we share with other property owners. Additionally, our planned MSG Sphere Las Vegas will have the benefit of an easement with respect to the planned pedestrian bridge to the Sands Expo & Convention Center. Our ability to continue to utilize these and other easements, including for advertising purposes, requires us to comply with a number of conditions. Moreover, certain adjoining property owners have easements over our property, which we are required to maintain so long as those property owners meet certain conditions. It is possible that we will be unable to continue to access or maintain any easements on terms favorable to us, or at all, which could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.. We May Be Exposed to Business, Reputational and Litigation Risk if There is Loss, Disclosure or Misappropriation of or Access to Stored Personal Information or Other Breaches of Our Information Security.. Through our operations, we may collect and store, including by electronic means, certain personal information and payment card information that is provided to us through purchases, registration on our web sites, or otherwise in communication or interaction with us. These activities require the use of centralized data storage, including through third party service providers. Data maintained in electronic form is subject to the risk of intrusion, tampering, theft or other malicious activity. Our ability to safeguard such personal information and other confidential information, including information regarding the Company and our distributors, advertisers and employees, is important to our business. We take these matters seriously and take significant steps to protect our stored information. These protections are costly and require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. Despite our efforts, the risks of a data breach cannot be entirely eliminated and our information technology and other systems that maintain and transmit consumer, distributor, advertiser, Company, employee and other confidential information may be compromised. This compromise of information on our network security or that of a third party service provider could result in personal information and/or confidential information being lost, disclosed, accessed or taken without consent, as well as the security of our other confidential information may be compromised. For example, on November 22, 2016, the Company announced that it was notifying customers that it had identified and addressed a payment card issue that affected cards used at merchandise and food and beverage locations at several of the Company's New York venues and The Chicago Theatre. The Company, working with security firms, promptly fixed the issue and implemented enhanced security measures. The Company also continues to review and enhance our security measures in light of changes in the industry. The Company has incurred and expects to incur expenses associated with the payment card incident.. If our electronically stored data is compromised, our ability to conduct business may be interrupted or impaired, we may lose profitable opportunities or the value of those opportunities may be diminished and we may lose revenue as a result of unlicensed use of our intellectual property. Further, a penetration of our network security or other misappropriation or misuse of personal or confidential information could subject us to business and litigation risk and damage our reputation, which could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.. A Change to or Withdrawal of New York City Real Estate Tax Exemption May Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.. Many arenas, ballparks and stadiums nationally and in New York City have received significant public support, such as tax exempt financing, other tax benefits, direct subsidies and other contributions, including for public infrastructure critical to the facilities such as parking lots and transit improvements. Our Madison Square Garden Complex benefits from a more limited real estate tax exemption pursuant to an agreement with the City of New York, subject to certain conditions, and legislation enacted by the State of New York in 1982. For fiscal year 2018, the tax exemption was $41.5 million. From time to time there have been calls to repeal or amend the tax exemption. Repeal or amendment would require legislative action by New York State. There can be no assurance that the tax exemption will not be amended in a manner adverse to us or repealed in its entirety, either of which could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.. 24. Table of Contents. Certain of Our Subsidiaries Have Incurred Indebtedness, and the Occurrence of an Event of Default Under Our Subsidiaries' Credit Facilities Could Substantially Impair the Assets of Those Subsidiaries; Failure of Our Joint Ventures to Perform as Expected Could Have a Negative Effect on Our Business.. Certain of our subsidiaries have incurred indebtedness, which indebtedness in the case of the TAO Group is significant relative to the assets of the TAO Group business. New York Knicks, LLC and New York Rangers, LLC, which own the assets of the Knicks and Rangers franchises, respectively, have also entered into credit facilities, both of which were undrawn as of June 30, 2018. The occurrence of an event of default under our subsidiaries' credit facilities could substantially impair the assets of those subsidiaries and, as a result, have a negative effect on our business and results of operations.. In addition, we have made investments in, or otherwise extended loans to, one or more of our joint ventures and may make additional investments in, or otherwise extend loans to, one or more of our joint ventures or their affiliates in the future. To the extent that those joint ventures or related affiliates do not perform as expected, including with respect to repayment of such loans, it could impair such assets or create losses related to such loans, and, as a result, have a negative effect on our business and results of operations.. We May Require Financing to Fund Our Ongoing Operations and Capital Expenditures, the Availability of Which is Highly Uncertain.. The capital and credit markets can experience volatility and disruption. Such markets can exert extreme downward pressure on stock prices and upward pressure on the cost of new debt capital and can severely restrict credit availability for most issuers.. Our business has been characterized by significant expenditures for properties, businesses, renovations and productions. In the future we may engage in transactions that depend on our ability to obtain financing. We may also seek financing to fund our ongoing operations.. Depending upon conditions in the financial markets and/or the Company's financial performance, we may not be able to raise additional capital on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, as described above, the leagues in which our sports teams compete may have, under certain circumstances, approval rights over certain financing transactions, and in connection with those rights, could affect our ability to obtain such financing. If we are unable to pursue our current and future spending programs, we may be forced to cancel or scale back those programs. Failure to successfully pursue our capital expenditure and other spending plans could negatively affect our ability to compete effectively and have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.. Our Business is Subject to Seasonal Fluctuations.. Our revenues have been seasonal and we expect they will continue to be seasonal. For example, 15% of our MSG Entertainment segment's revenues and 7% of our consolidated revenues in fiscal year 2018 were derived from the Christmas Spectacular. Revenues of the MSG Entertainment segment are highest in the second quarter of our fiscal year when these performances primarily occur. As a result, MSG Entertainment earns a disproportionate amount of its revenue and operating income in the second quarter of each fiscal year. Similarly, because of the nature of the NBA and NHL playing seasons, revenues from our sports teams are concentrated in the second and third quarters of each fiscal year. Revenues from our business on a consolidated basis tend to be at their lowest in the first and fourth quarters of the fiscal year.. Organized Labor Matters May Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.. Our business is dependent upon the efforts of unionized workers. Approximately 58% of our employees are represented by unions. Any labor disputes, such as strikes or lockouts, with the unions with which we have CBAs could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations (including our ability to produce or present concerts, theatrical productions, sporting events and other events).. 25. Table of Contents. NBA players are covered by a CBA between the NBPA and the NBA. NHL players are covered by a CBA between the NHLPA and the NHL. Both the NBA and the NHL have experienced labor difficulties in the past and may have labor issues in the future. Labor difficulties may include players' strikes or management lockouts. For example, the NHL has experienced labor difficulties, including a lockout during the 1994-95 NHL season, which resulted in the regular season being shortened from 84 to 48 games, a lockout beginning in September 2004, which resulted in the cancellation of the entire 2004-05 NHL season, and a lockout during the 2012-13 NHL season, which resulted in the regular season being shortened from 82 to 48 games. The current NHL CBA expires on September 15, 2022 (although the NHL and NHLPA each have the right to terminate the CBA effective following the 2019-20 season). The NBA has also experienced labor difficulties, including a lockout during the 1998-99 season, which resulted in the regular season being shortened from 82 to 50 games, and a lockout during the 2011-12 season, which resulted in the regular season being shortened from 82 games to 66 games. The current NBA CBA expires after the 2023-24 season (although the NBA and NBPA each has the right to terminate the CBA effective following the 2022-23 season).. The Unavailability of Systems Upon Which We Rely May Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.. We rely upon various internal and third-party software or systems in the operation of our business, including, with respect to ticket sales, credit card processing, email marketing, point of sale transactions, database, inventory, human resource management and financial systems. From time to time, certain of these arrangements may not be covered by long-term agreements. The failure or unavailability of these internal or third-party services or systems, depending upon its severity and duration, could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.. We May Become Subject to Infringement or Other Claims Relating to Our Content or Technology.. From time to time, third parties may assert against us alleged intellectual property (e.g., copyright, trademark and patent) or other claims relating to our productions, technologies or other content or material, some of which may be important to our business. In addition, our productions could potentially subject us to claims of defamation or similar types of allegations. Any such claims, regardless of their merit, could cause us to incur significant costs. In addition, if we are unable to continue use of certain intellectual property rights, our business and results of operations could be materially negatively impacted.. There Is the Risk of Personal Injuries and Accidents in Connection with Our Venues, Which Could Subject Us to Personal Injury or Other Claims; We are Subject to the Risk of Adverse Outcomes in Other Types of Litigation.. There are inherent risks associated with producing and hosting events and operating, maintaining or renovating our venues and in operating the restaurant and nightlife venues. As a result, personal injuries, accidents and other incidents have occurred and may occur from time to time, which could subject us to claims and liabilities.. These risks might not be covered by insurance or could involve exposures that exceed the limits of any applicable insurance. Incidents in connection with events at any of our venues could also reduce attendance at our events, and cause a decrease in our revenue and operating income. While we seek to obtain contractual indemnities for events at our venues that we do not promote and we maintain insurance policies that provide coverage for incidents in the ordinary course of business, there can be no assurance that such indemnities or insurance will be adequate at all times and in all circumstances.. From time to time, we become subject to other kinds of litigation. The outcome of litigation is inherently unpredictable. As a result, we could incur liability from litigation which could be material and for which we may have inadequate or no insurance coverage or be subject to other forms of relief which might adversely affect the Company.. 26. Table of Contents. We face risks from doing business internationally.. We have operations and own property outside of the United States. As a result, our business is subject to certain risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include:.  laws and policies affecting trade and taxes, including laws and policies relating to currency, the repatriation of funds and withholding taxes, and changes in these laws;.  changes in local regulatory requirements, including restrictions on foreign ownership;.  exchange rate fluctuation;.  exchange controls, tariffs and other trade barriers;.  differing degrees of protection for intellectual property and varying attitudes towards the piracy of intellectual property;.  foreign privacy and data protection laws and regulations and changes in these laws;.  the instability of foreign economies and governments;.  war and acts of terrorism;.  anti-corruption laws and regulations such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act that impose stringent requirements on how we conduct our foreign operations and changes in these laws and regulations; and.  shifting consumer preferences regarding entertainment.. Events or developments related to these and other risks associated with international operations could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.. The Distribution Could Result in Significant Tax Liability.. We have received an opinion from Sullivan & Cromwell LLP substantially to the effect that, among other things, the Distribution qualified as a tax-free distribution under the Internal Revenue Code (the \"Code\"). The opinion is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") or the courts. Additionally, MSG Networks received a private letter ruling from the IRS concluding that certain limited aspects of the Distribution do not prevent the Distribution from satisfying certain requirements for tax-free treatment under the Code. The opinion and the private letter ruling relied on factual representations and reasonable assumptions, which if incorrect or inaccurate may jeopardize the ability to rely on such opinion and letter ruling.. If the Distribution does not qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then, in general, MSG Networks would recognize taxable gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the common stock of our Company over MSG Networks' tax basis therein (i.e., as if it had sold the common stock of our Company in a taxable sale for its fair market value). In addition, the receipt by MSG Networks' stockholders of common stock of our Company would be a taxable distribution, and each U.S. holder that participated in the Distribution would recognize a taxable distribution as if the U.S. holder had received a distribution equal to the fair market value of our common stock that was distributed to it, which generally would be treated first as a taxable dividend to the extent of MSG Networks' earnings and profits, then as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of each U.S. holder's tax basis in its MSG Networks common stock, and thereafter as capital gain with respect to any remaining value. It is expected that the amount of any such taxes to MSG Networks' stockholders and MSG Networks would be substantial. See \" -  We May Have a Significant Indemnity Obligation to MSG Networks if the Distribution Is Treated as a Taxable Transaction.\". We May Have a Significant Indemnity Obligation to MSG Networks if the Distribution Is Treated as a Taxable Transaction.. We have entered into a Tax Disaffiliation Agreement with MSG Networks, which sets out each party's rights and obligations with respect to deficiencies and refunds, if any, of federal, state, local or foreign taxes for periods before and after the Distribution and related matters such as the filing of tax returns and the conduct of IRS and other audits. Pursuant to the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement, we are required to indemnify MSG Networks for losses and taxes of MSG Networks resulting from the breach of certain covenants and for certain taxable gain recognized by MSG Networks, including as a result of certain acquisitions of our stock or assets. If we are required to indemnify MSG Networks under the circumstances set forth in the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our financial position.. 27. Table of Contents. We are Controlled by the Dolan Family. As a Result of Their Control, the Dolan Family Has the Ability to Prevent or Cause a Change in Control or Approve, Prevent or Influence Certain Actions by the Company.. We have two classes of common stock:.  Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (\"Class A Common Stock\"), which is entitled to one vote per share and is entitled collectively to elect 25% of our Board of Directors; and.  Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (\"Class B Common Stock\"), which is entitled to ten votes per share and is entitled collectively to elect the remaining 75% of our Board of Directors.. As of July 31, 2018, the Dolan family, including trusts for the benefit of members of the Dolan family (collectively, the \"Dolan Family Group\"), collectively own all of our Class B Common Stock, approximately 2.8% of our outstanding Class A Common Stock and approximately 71.1% of the total voting power of all our outstanding common stock. The members of the Dolan Family Group holding Class B Common Stock have executed a stockholders agreement (the \"Stockholders Agreement\") that has the effect of causing the voting power of the holders of our Class B Common Stock to be cast as a block with respect to all matters to be voted on by holders of Class B Common Stock. Under the Stockholders Agreement, the shares of Class B Common Stock owned by members of the Dolan Family Group are to be voted on all matters in accordance with the determination of the Dolan Family Committee, except that the decisions of the Dolan Family Committee are non-binding with respect to the Class B Common Stock owned by certain Dolan family trusts that collectively own 40.5% of the outstanding Class B Common Stock (\"Excluded Trust\"). The \"Dolan Family Committee\" consists of Charles F. Dolan and his six children, James L. Dolan, Thomas C. Dolan, Patrick F. Dolan, Kathleen M. Dolan, Marianne Dolan Weber and Deborah A. Dolan-Sweeney. The Dolan Family Committee generally acts by majority vote, except that approval of a going-private transaction must be approved by a two-thirds vote and approval of a change-in-control transaction must be approved by not less than all but one vote. The voting members of the Dolan Family Committee are James L. Dolan, Thomas C. Dolan, Kathleen M. Dolan, Deborah A. Dolan-Sweeney and Marianne Dolan Weber, with each member having one vote other than James L. Dolan, who has two votes. Because James L. Dolan has two votes, he has the ability to block Dolan Family Committee approval of any Company change in control transaction. Shares of Class B Common Stock owned by Excluded Trusts are to be voted on all matters in accordance with the determination of the Excluded Trusts holding a majority of the Class B Common Stock held by all Excluded Trusts, except in the case of a vote on a going-private transaction or a change in control transaction, in which case a vote of trusts holding two-thirds of the Class B Common Stock owned by Excluded Trusts is required.. The Dolan Family Group is able to prevent a change in control of our Company and no person interested in acquiring us will be able to do so without obtaining the consent of the Dolan Family Group. The Dolan Family Group, by virtue of their stock ownership, have the power to elect all of our directors subject to election by holders of Class B Common Stock and are able collectively to control stockholder decisions on matters on which holders of all classes of our common stock vote together as a single class. These matters could include the amendment of some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and the approval of fundamental corporate transactions.. In addition, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding shares of the Class B Common Stock, voting separately as a class, is required to approve:.  the authorization or issuance of any additional shares of Class B Common Stock; and.  any amendment, alteration or repeal of any of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation that adversely affects the powers, preferences or rights of the Class B Common Stock.. As a result, the Dolan Family Group also has the power to prevent such issuance or amendment.. The Dolan Family Group also controls MSG Networks and AMC Networks Inc. (\"AMC Networks\").. We Have Elected to Be a \"Controlled Company\" for NYSE Purposes Which Allows Us Not to Comply with Certain of the Corporate Governance Rules of NYSE.. Members of the Dolan Family Group have entered into a Stockholders Agreement relating, among other things, to the voting of their shares of our Class B Common Stock. As a result, we are a \"controlled company\" under the corporate governance rules of NYSE. As a controlled company, we have the right to elect not to comply with the corporate governance rules of NYSE requiring: (i) a majority of independent directors on our Board, (ii) an independent corporate governance and nominating committee and (iii) an independent compensation committee. Our Board of Directors has elected for the Company to be treated as a \"controlled company\" under NYSE corporate governance rules and not to comply with the NYSE requirement for a majority independent board of directors and for an independent corporate governance and nominating committee because of our status as a controlled company. Nevertheless, our Board of Directors has elected to comply with the NYSE requirement for an independent compensation committee.. 28. Table of Contents. Future Stock Sales, Including as a Result of the Exercise of Registration Rights by Certain of Our Stockholders, Could Adversely Affect the Trading Price of Our Class A Common Stock.. Certain parties have registration rights covering a portion of our shares. We have entered into registration rights agreements with Charles F. Dolan, members of his family, certain Dolan family interests, and the Dolan Family Foundation that provide them with \"demand\" and \"piggyback\" registration rights with respect to approximately 5.1 million shares of Class A Common Stock, including shares issuable upon conversion of shares of Class B Common Stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of Class A Common Stock could adversely affect the market price of the Class A Common Stock and could impair our future ability to raise capital through an offering of our equity securities.. Transfers and Ownership of Our Common Stock Are Subject to Restrictions Under Rules of the NBA, NHL and WNBA and Our Certificate of Incorporation Provides Us with Remedies Against Holders Who Do Not Comply with Those Restrictions.. The Company is the owner of professional sports franchises in the NBA, NHL and WNBA. As a result, transfers and ownership of our common stock are subject to certain restrictions under the governing documents of the NBA, NHL and WNBA as well as the Company's consent and other agreements with the NBA, NHL and WNBA in connection with their approval of the Distribution. These restrictions are described under \"Description of Capital Stock  -  Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock  -  Transfer Restrictions\" in our Information Statement filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Amendment No. 6 to the registration statement on Form 10 filed with the SEC on September 11, 2015. In order to protect the Company and its NBA, NHL and WNBA franchises from sanctions that might be imposed by the NBA, NHL or WNBA as a result of violations of these restrictions, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, if a transfer of shares of our common stock to a person or the ownership of shares of our common stock by a person requires approval or other action by a league and such approval or other action was not obtained or taken as required, the Company shall have the right by written notice to the holder to require the holder to dispose of the shares of common stock which triggered the need for such approval. If a holder fails to comply with such a notice, in addition to any other remedies that may be available, the Company may redeem the shares at 85% of the fair market value of those shares.. We Share Certain Key Executives and Directors with MSG Networks and/or AMC Networks, Which Means Those Executives Do Not Devote Their Full Time and Attention to Our Affairs and the Overlap May Give Rise to Conflicts; Certain Directors Are Also Directors and/or Executives of AMC Networks.. Our Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, James L. Dolan, also serves as the Executive Chairman of MSG Networks, and our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, Lawrence J. Burian, also serves as the Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of MSG Networks. As a result, not all of our executive officers devote their full time and attention to the Company's affairs. In addition, our Vice Chairman, Gregg G. Seibert, also serves as the Vice Chairman of both MSG Networks and AMC Networks, and one of our directors, Charles F. Dolan, is the Executive Chairman of AMC Networks. Furthermore, six members of our Board of Directors (including James L. Dolan) are also directors of MSG Networks, and seven members of our Board of Directors (including James L. Dolan) are also directors of AMC Networks. The overlapping officers and directors may have actual or apparent conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting each company. For example, the potential for a conflict of interest exists when we on the one hand, and MSG Networks and/or AMC Networks on the other hand, look at certain acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be suitable for more than one of the companies. Also, conflicts may arise if there are issues or disputes under the commercial arrangements that exist between MSG Networks or AMC Networks and us. In addition, certain of our directors and officers hold MSG Networks and/or AMC Networks stock, stock options, restricted stock units and/or cash performance awards. These ownership interests could create actual, apparent or potential conflicts of interest when these individuals are faced with decisions that could have different implications for our Company and MSG Networks or AMC Networks. See \"Certain Relationships and Potential Conflicts of Interest\" in our Proxy Statement filed with the SEC on October 27, 2016 and \"Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions  -  Certain Relationships and Potential Conflicts of Interest\" in our Information Statement filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Amendment No. 6 to the registration statement on Form 10 filed with the SEC on September 11, 2015 for a discussion of certain procedures we instituted to help ameliorate such potential conflicts with MSG Networks and/or AMC Networks that may arise.. 29. Table of Contents. Our Overlapping Directors and Executive Officers with MSG Networks and/or AMC Networks May Result in the Diversion of Corporate Opportunities to MSG Networks and/or AMC Networks and Other Conflicts and Provisions in Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation May Provide Us No Remedy in That Circumstance.. The Company's amended and restated certificate of incorporation acknowledges that directors and officers of the Company (the \"Overlap Persons\") may also be serving as directors, officers, employees or agents of MSG Networks and/or AMC Networks (each an \"Other Entity\"), and that the Company may engage in material business transactions with such Other Entities. The Company has renounced its rights to certain business opportunities and the Company's amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that no director or officer of the Company who is also serving as a director, officer, employee or agent of one or more of the Other Entities will be liable to the Company or its stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty that would otherwise occur by reason of the fact that any such individual directs a corporate opportunity (other than certain limited types of opportunities set forth in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation) to one or more of the Other Entities instead of the Company, or does not refer or communicate information regarding such corporate opportunities to the Company. These provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also expressly validate certain contracts, agreements, arrangements and transactions (and amendments, modifications or terminations thereof) between the Company and the Other Entities and, to the fullest extent permitted by law, provide that the actions of the overlapping directors or officers in connection therewith are not breaches of fiduciary duties owed to the Company, any of its subsidiaries or their respective stockholders. See \"Certain Relationships and Potential Conflicts of Interest\" in our Proxy Statement filed with the SEC on October 27, 2017 and \"Description of Capital Stock  -  Certain Corporate Opportunities and Conflicts\" in our Information Statement filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Amendment No. 6 to the registration statement on Form 10 filed with the SEC on September 11, 2015."
