[1] "ITEM 1A - RISK FACTORS. RISK FACTORS AND FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS. We wish to caution readers that the following important factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, our actual results and could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical results and from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made from time to time by us on the basis of our then-current expectations. The words \"believes\", \"anticipates\", \"expects\", \"projections\", \"outlook\", \"should\", \"could\", \"plan\", \"guidance\", \"likely\", \"on track to\", \"targeted\" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our businesses are in rapidly changing and competitive markets and involve a high degree of risk and unpredictability. Forward-looking projections are subject to these risks and unpredictability.. Our results may fluctuate as a result of cyclical or non-cyclical changes in the property and casualty insurance industry.. The property and casualty insurance industry historically has been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. Our profitability is affected significantly by the following items:. •  increases in costs, particularly increases occurring after the time our insurance products are priced, including construction, automobile repair, and medical and rehabilitation costs. This includes inflation and \"cost shifting\" from health insurers to casualty and liability insurers (whether as a result of an increasing number of injured parties without health insurance, coverage changes in health policies to make such coverage secondary to casualty policies, the further implementation or the repeal of national healthcare legislation, lower reimbursement rates for the same procedure by health insurers or government-sponsored insurance, or the implementation of the Medicare Secondary Payer Act, which imposes reporting and other requirements with respect to medical and related claims paid for Medicare eligible individuals). As it relates to construction, there are often temporary increases in the cost of building supplies and construction labor after a significant event (for example, so called \"demand surge\" that causes the cost of labor, construction materials and other items to increase in a geographic area affected by a catastrophe). In addition, we are limited in our ability to negotiate and manage reimbursable expenses incurred by our policyholders;. •  competitive and regulatory pressures, which affect the prices of our products and the nature of the risks covered;. •  volatile and unpredictable developments, including severe weather, catastrophes, terrorist actions, geopolitical developments and global conflicts;. •  legal, regulatory and socio-economic developments, such as new theories of insured and insurer liability and related claims and extra-contractual awards such as punitive damages, and increases in the size of jury awards or changes in applicable laws and regulations (such as changes in the thresholds affecting \"no fault\" liability or when non-economic damages are recoverable for bodily injury claims or coverage requirements);. •  fluctuations in interest rates, as a result of a change in monetary policy or otherwise, inflationary pressures, default rates, commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and other factors that affect net income, including with respect to investment returns and operating results for certain of our lines of business such as trade credit; and. •  other general economic conditions and trends that may affect the adequacy of reserves.. The demand for property and casualty insurance can also vary significantly based on general economic conditions (either nationally or regionally and, with respect to our Chaucer segment, internationally), rising as the overall level of economic activity increases and falling as such activity decreases. Loss patterns also tend to vary inversely with local economic conditions, increasing during difficult or unstable economic times and moderating during economic upswings or periods of stability. The fluctuations in demand and competition could produce unpredictable underwriting results.. Actual losses from claims against our property and casualty insurance subsidiaries may exceed their reserves for claims.. Our property and casualty insurance subsidiaries maintain reserves to cover their estimated ultimate liability for losses and loss adjustment expenses with respect to reported and unreported claims incurred as of the end of each accounting period. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, reserves represent estimates, involving actuarial projections and judgments at a given time, of what we expect the ultimate settlement and administration of incurred claims will cost based on facts and circumstances then known, predictions of future events, estimates of future trends in claims frequency and severity and judicial theories of liability, costs of repair and replacement, legislative activity and myriad other factors.. 22. Table of Contents. The inherent uncertainties of estimating reserves are greater for certain types of property and casualty insurance lines. These include automobile bodily injury liability, automobile personal injury protection, and workers' compensation, where a longer period of time may elapse before a definitive determination of ultimate liability may be made, environmental liability, where the technological, judicial and political climates involving these types of claims are continuously evolving, and casualty coverages such as professional liability. There is also greater uncertainty in establishing reserves with respect to new business, particularly new business that is generated with respect to newer product lines, such as our management and professional liability, healthcare, and cyber-risk lines, by newly appointed agents, or in geographies where we have less experience in conducting business. In these cases, there is less historical experience or knowledge and less data upon which the actuaries can rely. Estimating reserves is further complicated by unexpected claims or unintended coverages that emerge due to changing conditions. These emerging issues may increase the size or number of claims beyond our underwriting intent and may not become apparent for many years after a policy is issued. These losses are reflected as prior year reserve development. Although we undertake underwriting actions designed to limit losses once emerging issues are identified, we remain subject to losses on policies issued during those years preceding the underwriting actions.. Additionally, the introduction of new Commercial Lines products, the development of new niche and specialty lines and the introduction of new or expanded lines of business at Chaucer, present new risks. Certain new specialty products, such as the human services program, non-profit directors and officers liability and employment practices liability policies, lawyers and other professional liability policies, healthcare lines and directors and officers coverage may also require a longer period of time (the so-called \"tail\") to determine the ultimate liability associated with the claims and may produce more volatility in our results and less certainty in our accident year reserves. Some lines of business, such as surety, are less susceptible to establishing reserves based on actuarial or historical experience and losses may be episodic, depending on economic and other factors.. We regularly review our reserving techniques, reinsurance and the overall adequacy of our reserves based upon, among other things:. •  our review of historical data, legislative enactments, judicial decisions, legal developments in imposition of damages, changes in political attitudes and trends in general economic conditions;. •  our review of per claim information;. •  historical loss experience of our property and casualty insurance subsidiaries and the industry as a whole; and. •  the terms of our property and casualty insurance policies.. Underwriting results and operating income could be adversely affected by further changes in our net loss and LAE estimates related to significant events or emerging risks, such as risks related to attacks on or breaches of cloud-based data information storage or computer network systems (\"cyber-risks\"), privacy regulations or disruptions caused by major power grid failures or widespread electrical and electronic equipment failure due to aging infrastructure, natural factors like hurricanes, earthquakes, wildfires, solar flares and pandemic or man-made factors like terrorism.. Estimating losses following any major catastrophe or with respect to emerging claims is an inherently uncertain process. Factors that add to the complexity of estimating losses from these events include the legal and regulatory uncertainty, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, delays in claim reporting, and with respect to areas with significant property damage, the impact of \"demand surge\" and a slower pace of recovery resulting from the extent of damage sustained in the affected areas due, in part, to the availability and cost of resources to effect repairs. Emerging claims issues may involve complex coverage, liability and other costs which could significantly affect LAE. As a result, there can be no assurance that our ultimate costs associated with these events or issues will not be substantially different from current estimates (for example, actual losses arising from an event could have varied widely depending on the interpretation of various policy provisions). Investors should consider the risks and uncertainties in our business that may affect net loss and LAE reserve estimates and future performance, including the difficulties in arriving at such estimates.. Anticipated losses associated with business interruption exposure, the impact of wind versus water as the cause of loss, disputes over the extent of damage caused by hail storms, supplemental payments on previously closed claims caused by the development of latent damages or new theories of liability and inflationary pressures leading to claims cost escalation could also have a negative impact on future loss reserve development.. Because of the inherent uncertainties involved in setting reserves and establishing current and prior-year \"loss picks\", including those related to catastrophes, we cannot provide assurance that the existing reserves or future reserves established by our property and casualty insurance subsidiaries will prove adequate in light of subsequent events. Our results of operations and financial condition could therefore be materially affected by adverse loss development for events that we insured in prior periods.. 23. Table of Contents. Due to geographical concentration in our U.S. property and casualty business, changes in economic, regulatory and other conditions in the regions where we operate could have a significant negative impact on our business as a whole. Geographic concentrations also expose us to losses that are potentially disproportionate to our market share in the event of natural or other catastrophes.. We generate a significant portion of our U.S. property and casualty insurance net premiums written and earnings in Michigan, Massachusetts and other states in the Northeast, including New York. In addition, a significant amount of Commercial Lines' net written premium is generated in California. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 20% and 9% of our net premiums written in our U.S. property and casualty business were generated in the states of Michigan and Massachusetts, respectively. Many states in which we do business impose significant rate control and residual market charges, and restrict an insurer's ability to exit such markets. The revenues and profitability of our property and casualty insurance subsidiaries are subject to prevailing economic, regulatory, demographic and other conditions, including adverse weather in Michigan and the Northeast. Because of our geographic concentration in certain regions, our business as a whole could be significantly affected by changes in the economic, regulatory and other conditions in such areas.. Further, certain new catastrophe models assume an increase in frequency and severity of certain weather events, whether as a result of potential global climate change or otherwise. Financial strength rating agencies are placing increased emphasis on capital and reinsurance adequacy for insurers with certain geographic concentrations of risk that may be subject to disproportionate risk of loss. These factors also may result in insurers seeking to diversify their geographic exposure, which could result in increased regulatory restrictions in those markets where insurers seek to exit or reduce coverage, as well as an increase in competitive pressures in less weather-exposed markets.. Our profitability may be adversely affected if our pricing models differ materially from actual results.. The profitability of our business depends on the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in pricing our policies. We price our business in a manner that is intended to be consistent, over time, with actual results and return objectives. Our estimates and models, and/or the assumptions behind them, may differ materially from actual results.. If we fail to appropriately price the risks we insure, fail to change or are too slow to change our pricing model to appropriately reflect our current experience, or if our claims experience is more frequent or severe than our underlying risk assumptions, our profit margins may be negatively affected. If we underestimate the frequency and/or severity of extreme adverse events occurring, our financial condition may be adversely affected. If we overestimate the risks we are exposed to, we may overprice our products, and new business growth and retention of our existing business may be adversely affected.. Limitations on the ability to predict the potential impact of weather events and catastrophes may impact our future profits and cash flows.. Our business is subject to claims arising out of catastrophes that may have a significant impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We may experience catastrophe losses that could have a material adverse impact on our business. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, wind, hail, fires, drought, severe winter weather, volcanic eruptions, tropical storms, tsunamis, sabotage, terrorist actions, explosions, nuclear accidents, solar flares, and power outages. The frequency and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable.. The extent of gross losses from a catastrophe is a function of the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. The extent of net losses depends on the amount and collectability of reinsurance.. Additionally, the severity of certain catastrophes could be so significant that it impacts the ability of certain locations to recover their economic viability in the near term, which could also have a significant negative impact on our business.. Although catastrophes can cause losses in a variety of property and casualty lines, homeowners and commercial multiple peril property insurance have, in the past, generated the vast majority of our domestic catastrophe-related claims and in our property lines for Chaucer's international business. Our catastrophe losses have historically been principally weather-related, particularly from hurricanes, as well as snow and ice damage from winter storms. However, Chaucer's international operations subject us to greater diversity in the types and geographic distribution of potential catastrophe losses. For example, Chaucer incurred catastrophe losses in 2017 from hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria and earthquakes in Mexico, in 2016 from wildfires in Canada and earthquakes in New Zealand and Ecuador, and in 2015 from a port explosion in China. Losses in 2017 also were more diverse in the lines they affected as compared to historical catastrophe losses and included casualty, energy and marine lines.. Although the insurance industry and rating agencies have developed various models intended to help estimate potential insured losses under thousands of scenarios, there is no reliable way of predicting the probability of such events or the magnitude of such losses before a specific event occurs. We utilize various models and other techniques in an attempt to measure and manage potential catastrophe losses within various income and capital risk appetites. However, such models and techniques have many limitations. In addition, due to historical concentrations of business, regulatory restrictions and other factors, our ability to manage such concentrations is limited, particularly in the Northeast and in the state of Michigan.. 24. Table of Contents. We purchase catastrophe reinsurance as protection against catastrophe losses. Based upon an ongoing review of our reinsurers' financial statements, financial strength ratings assigned to them by rating agencies, their reputations in the reinsurance marketplace, our collections history with them and the analysis and guidance of our reinsurance advisors, we believe that the financial condition of our reinsurers is sound. However, reinsurance is subject to counterparty risks, including those resulting from over-concentration of exposures within the industry. In setting our retention levels and coverage limits, we also consider our level of statutory surplus and exposures, as well as the current reinsurance pricing environment. Should we experience losses from one significant or several large catastrophes, there can be no assurance that our reinsurance program will provide adequate coverage levels.. Our business is dependent on our ability to manage risk, and the failure of the risk mitigation strategies we utilize could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Our business performance is highly dependent on our ability to manage operational risks that arise from a large number of day-to-day business activities, including insurance underwriting, claims processing, servicing, investment, financial and tax reporting, compliance with regulatory requirements and other activities. We utilize a number of strategies to mitigate our insurance risk exposure, including: engaging in thorough underwriting, utilizing limits, deductibles and exclusions to mitigate policy risk, reviewing the terms and conditions of our policies, focusing on our risk aggregation by product line, geography, industry type, credit exposure and other bases, and ceding insurance risk. We seek to monitor and control our exposure to risks arising out of these activities through an enterprise-wide risk management framework. However, there are inherent limitations in all of these tactics, and no assurance can be given that these processes and procedures will effectively control all known risks or effectively identify unforeseen risks or that an event or series of events will not result in loss levels in excess of our probable maximum loss models, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. It is also possible that losses could manifest themselves in ways that we do not anticipate and that our risk mitigation strategies are not designed to address. Such a manifestation of losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. These risks may be heightened during times of challenging macro economic conditions.. We cannot guarantee the adequacy of or ability to maintain our current level of reinsurance coverage.. Similar to insurance companies, reinsurance companies can also be adversely impacted when catastrophes occur. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current levels of reinsurance coverage. In particular, and as discussed under \"Reinsurance Program Overview\" of this Form 10-K, not all of our 2018 reinsurance programs for the Commercial and Personal Lines and Chaucer business are fully placed. Future catastrophic events and other changes in the reinsurance marketplace, including as a result of investment losses or disruptions due to challenges in the financial markets that have occurred or could occur in the future, may adversely affect our ability to obtain such coverages, as well as adversely affect the cost of obtaining that coverage.. For the 2018 account year, Chaucer sponsored a Bermuda-based \"sidecar\" to provide quota share reinsurance for its property treaty business. Although this reinsurance vehicle is collateralized, there can be no assurance that in the event of claims, this vehicle will operate to reinsure Chaucer losses as designed.. Additionally, the availability, scope of coverage, cost, and creditworthiness of reinsurance could continue to be adversely affected as a result of not only new catastrophes, but also terrorist attacks and the perceived risks associated with future terrorist activities, global conflicts, including the threat of nuclear conflict, and the changing legal and regulatory environment (including changes which could create new insured risks). Federal reinsurance for terrorism risks coverage offered by insurers is available under TRIPRA, but it only applies to certified events of terrorism (as defined in TRIPRA) and contains certain caps and deductibles. Although TRIPRA coverage is in effect through December 31, 2020, should this program not be renewed or should it be modified unfavorably by the government in the future, private reinsurance for events of terrorism may not be available to us or available at reasonable or acceptable rates.. Although we monitor their financial soundness, we cannot be sure that our reinsurers will pay in a timely fashion, if at all.. We purchase reinsurance by transferring part of the risk that we have assumed (known as ceding) to reinsurance companies in exchange for part of the premium we receive in connection with the risk. As of December 31, 2017, our reinsurance receivable (including from the MCCA) amounted to approximately $3.1 billion. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred or ceded to the reinsurer, it does not relieve us (the reinsured) of our liability to our policyholders or, in cases where we are a reinsurer, to our reinsureds. Accordingly, we bear counterparty risk with respect to our reinsurers. Although we monitor the credit quality of our reinsurers, we cannot be sure that they will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us currently or in the future or that they will pay such recoverables on a timely basis. In certain circumstances, reinsurers must generally provide collateral equal to 100% of estimated reinsurance recoverables. The collateral can serve to mitigate credit risk. In the event of losses, we may look to 'draw-down' on this collateral to satisfy reinsurance recoveries due to the Company, but if the collateral held is insufficient to meet those recoveries, we will be exposed to losses.. 25. Table of Contents. Climate change may adversely impact our results of operations.. There are concerns that the higher level of weather-related catastrophes and other losses incurred by the industry in 2017 and in prior years is indicative of changing weather patterns, whether as a result of climate-warming trends (\"global climate change\") caused by human activities or otherwise, which could cause such events to persist. Increased weather-related catastrophes would lead to higher overall losses, which we may not be able to recoup, particularly in the current economic and competitive environment, and higher reinsurance costs. As noted above, certain catastrophe models assume an increase in frequency and severity of certain weather events, which could result in a disproportionate impact on insurers with certain geographic concentrations of risk. This would also likely increase the risks of writing property insurance in coastal areas, particularly in jurisdictions that restrict pricing and underwriting flexibility.. In addition, global climate change could have an impact on assets in which we invest, resulting in realized and unrealized losses in future periods that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and/or financial position. It is not possible to foresee which, if any, assets, industries or markets will be materially and adversely affected, nor is it possible to foresee the magnitude of such effect.. We may incur financial losses resulting from our participation in shared market mechanisms, mandatory reinsurance programs and mandatory and voluntary pooling arrangements.. In most of the U.S. jurisdictions in which we operate, our property and casualty insurance subsidiaries are required to participate in mandatory property and casualty shared market mechanisms, government-sponsored reinsurance programs or pooling arrangements. These arrangements are designed to provide various insurance coverages to individuals or other entities that are otherwise unable to purchase such coverage or to support the costs of uninsured motorist claims in a particular state or region. We cannot predict whether our participation in these shared market mechanisms or pooling arrangements will provide underwriting profits or losses to us. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we experienced an underwriting loss of $13.6 million from participation in these mechanisms and pooling arrangements, compared to underwriting losses of $12.7 million and $13.2 million in 2016 and 2015, respectively. We may face similar or more significant earnings fluctuations in the future.. Additionally, increases in the number of participants or insureds in state-sponsored reinsurance pools, FAIR Plans or other residual market mechanisms, particularly in the states of Massachusetts, New York, California, North Carolina, Florida or Louisiana combined with regulatory restrictions on the ability to adequately price, underwrite, or non-renew business, as well as new legislation, or changes in existing case law, could expose us to significant exposures and risks of increased assessments from these residual market mechanisms. There could also be significant adverse impact as a result of losses incurred in those states due to hurricane exposure, as well as the declining number of carriers providing coverage in those regions. We are unable to predict the likelihood or impact of such potential assessments or other actions.. We also have credit risk associated with certain mandatory reinsurance programs such as the MCCA. The MCCA was created to fund Michigan's unique unlimited personal injury protection benefit. As of December 31, 2017, our estimated reinsurance recoverable from the MCCA was $930.6 million. In most years, the MCCA operates with a deficit, which may fluctuate significantly based on investment returns, discount rates, incurred claims, annual assessments and other factors, although historically its annual operations have been cash flow positive.. In addition, we may be adversely affected by liabilities resulting from our previous participation in certain voluntary property and casualty assumed reinsurance pools. We have terminated participation in virtually all property and casualty voluntary pools, but remain subject to claims related to periods in which we participated. The property and casualty industry's assumed reinsurance businesses have suffered substantial losses during the past several years, particularly related to environmental and asbestos exposure for property and casualty coverages, in some cases resulting from incidents alleged to have occurred decades ago. Due to the inherent volatility in these businesses, possible issues related to the enforceability of reinsurance treaties in the industry and the recent history of increased losses, we cannot provide assurance that our current reserves are adequate or that we will not incur losses in the future. Our operating results and financial position may be adversely affected by liabilities resulting from any such claims in excess of our loss estimates. As of December 31, 2017, our reserves totaled $38.4 million for these legacy voluntary property and casualty assumed reinsurance pools, with the largest being the Excess Casualty Reinsurance Association (ECRA) pool.. Our businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability.. Our U.S. insurance businesses are subject to supervision and regulation by the state insurance authority in each state where we transact business. This system of supervision and regulation relates to numerous aspects of an insurance company's business and financial condition, including limitations on the authorization of lines of business, underwriting limitations, the ability to utilize credit-based insurance scores or other factors in underwriting, the ability to terminate agents, supervisory and liability responsibilities for agents, the setting of premium rates, the requirement to write certain classes of business that we might otherwise avoid or charge different premium rates, restrictions on the ability to withdraw from certain lines of business or terminate policies or classes of policyholders, the establishment of standards of solvency, the licensing of insurers and agents, compensation of and contractual arrangements with,. 26. Table of Contents. independent agents, concentration of investments, levels of reserves, the payment of dividends, transactions with affiliates, changes of control, protection of private information of our agents, policyholders, claimants and others (which may include highly sensitive financial or medical information or other private information such as social security numbers, driving records, driver's license numbers, etc.) and the approval of policy forms. From time to time, various states and Congress have proposed to prohibit or otherwise restrict the use of credit-based insurance scores in underwriting or rating our Personal Lines business. The elimination of the use of credit-based insurance scores could cause significant disruption to our business and our confidence in our pricing and underwriting. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than stockholders and other investors.. Legislative and regulatory restrictions are constantly evolving and are subject to then current political pressures. For example, following major events, states have considered, and in some cases adopted, proposals such as homeowners' \"Bill of Rights\", restrictions on storm deductibles, additional mandatory claim handling guidelines and mandatory coverages. More recently, the California Insurance Commissioner requested that all insurers operating in California voluntarily divest from any investments they may have in thermal coal and the New York Department of Financial Services enacted a comprehensive cybersecurity regulation. Such actions also occur at the federal level, such as the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's proposal that may increase the legal risk of providing homeowners and commercial residential property insurance by imposing liability for discrimination on the basis of a disparate-impact theory even without evidence of discriminatory intent. The prospects for this proposal under the current president's administration are unknown at this time. Some states are also considering mandating owners of firearms to purchase liability insurance.. In addition, The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act provides for enhanced regulation for the financial services industry through initiatives including, but not limited to, the creation of a Federal Insurance Office and several federal oversight agencies, the requiring of more transparency, accountability and focus in protecting investors and businesses, input of shareholders regarding executive compensation, and enhanced empowerment of regulators to pursue those who engage in financial fraud and unethical business practices. The SEC adopted regulations designed to encourage, reward, and protect \"whistleblowers\", whether or not they first report the potential infraction to the company for correction or remedial action.. Also, the federal Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP Extension Act mandates reporting and other requirements applicable to property and casualty insurance companies that make payments to or on behalf of claimants who are eligible for Medicare benefits. These requirements have made bodily injury claim resolutions more difficult, particularly for complex matters or for injuries requiring treatment over an extended period, and impose significant penalties for non-compliance and reporting errors. These requirements also have increased the circumstances under which the federal government may seek to recover from insurers amounts paid to claimants in circumstances where the government had previously paid benefits. In January 2013, the Strengthening Medicare and Repaying Taxpayers Act was signed into law and provided for implementation over a staggered period of time. We are continuing to monitor the effect of this law on our ability to settle cases and our exposure to federal recoupment claims.. With respect to our U.S. insurance business, state regulatory oversight and various proposals at the federal level may in the future adversely affect our ability to sustain adequate returns in certain lines of business or in some cases, operate the line profitably. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and certain state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that alter and, in many cases, increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding company systems.. Our business could be negatively impacted by adverse state, federal and foreign legislation or regulation, or judicial developments, including those resulting in:. •  decreases in rates;. •  limitations on premium levels;. •  coverage and benefit mandates;. •  limitations on the ability to manage care and utilization or other claim costs;. •  requirements to write certain classes of business or in certain geographies;. •  restrictions on underwriting, on methods of compensating independent producers, or on our ability to cancel or renew certain business (which negatively affects our ability to reduce concentrations of property risks);. •  higher liability exposures for our insureds;. •  increased assessments or higher premium or other taxes; and. •  enhanced ability to pierce \"no fault\" thresholds or recover non-economic damages (such as \"pain and suffering\").. 27. Table of Contents. These regulations serve to protect the customers and other third parties who deal with us and are heavily influenced by the then current political environment. If we are found to have violated an applicable regulation, administrative or judicial proceedings may be initiated against us that could result in censures, fines, civil penalties (including punitive damages), the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, premium refunds or the reopening of closed claim files, among other consequences. These actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. From time to time, Congress, as well as state, local and foreign governments, also consider legislation that could increase or modify our tax costs. For example, on December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\") was enacted and includes reductions in the U.S. corporate income tax rate, changes to the cost of related party reinsurance for foreign-owned insurers, and changes to the tax base, which will impact our effective tax rate in future years. The TCJA also reduced the carrying value of our net deferred tax asset and provided for taxes on funds previously deemed to be permanently reinvested overseas. Although we have estimated the effect that the TCJA will have on our current deferred tax position, there can be no assurance that these estimates won't change based on new interpretations of the TCJA or new information related to our current tax position. Although we believe that the TCJA will reduce our effective tax rate in future years, competitive and state regulatory pressures may force us to enact rate and pricing decreases for our insurance products, which may reduce the net benefit of the tax reduction or significantly limit our ability to realize this benefit beyond the short term.. In addition, we are reliant upon independent agents and brokers to market our products. Changes in regulations related to insurance agents and brokers that materially impact the profitability of the agent and broker business or that restrict the ability of agents and brokers to market and sell insurance products would have a material adverse effect on our business.. With respect to our U.K. insurance business, Chaucer's regulated subsidiaries are subject to the U.K.'s PRA and FCA regulations and are subject to limitations and approval requirements with respect to payments of dividends, return of capital and becoming a borrower, guarantor or provider of security interest on any financial obligations and other aspects of its operations.. The PRA and FCA have substantial powers of intervention in relation to the Lloyd's managing agents, such as Chaucer, which they regulate, including the power to remove their authorization to manage Lloyd's syndicates. In addition, each year the PRA requires Lloyd's to satisfy an annual solvency test that measures whether Lloyd's has sufficient assets in the aggregate to meet all outstanding liabilities of its members, both current and run-off. If Lloyd's fails this test, the PRA may require Lloyd's to cease trading and/or its members to cease or reduce underwriting. The FCA focuses on conduct of business issues with a particular focus on consumer protection and market integrity. Future regulatory changes or rulings by the PRA and FCA could interfere with our business strategy or financial assumptions, possibly resulting in a material adverse effect on our profitability.. Additionally, the Lloyd's worldwide insurance and reinsurance business is subject to various regulations, laws, treaties and other applicable policies of the European Union, as well as each nation, state and locality in which it operates. Material changes in governmental requirements and laws or the continued trend towards regulatory fragmentation could have an adverse effect on Lloyd's and its member companies, including Chaucer. Further, as we continue to expand our business into new regions, either organically or through acquisition, we become subject to the regulations and different regulatory bodies governing those locales.. From time to time, we are also involved in investigations and proceedings by U.S., U.K., state and other governmental and self-regulatory agencies. We cannot provide assurance that these investigations, proceedings and inquiries will not result in actions that would adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. As a specialist in Lloyd's insurance group, Chaucer is subject to a number of risks which could materially and adversely affect us.. As a specialist in Lloyd's insurance group, Chaucer is subject to a number of specific risk factors and uncertainties, including without limitation:. •  its reliance on insurance and reinsurance brokers and Lloyd's distribution channels to distribute and market its products (so called \"coverholders\"), including its reliance on four major brokers who each were responsible for ten percent or more of Chaucer's gross written premium in 2017;. •  its obligations to maintain funds at Lloyd's to support its underwriting activities;. •  its risk-based capital requirement being assessed periodically by Lloyd's and being subject to variation;. •  its reliance on ongoing approvals from Lloyd's, the PRA and FCA and other regulators to conduct its business, including a requirement that its Annual Business Plan be approved by Lloyd's before the start of underwriting for each account year;. •  its obligations to contribute to the Lloyd's Central Fund and pay levies to Lloyd's;. •  its financial strength rating is derived from the rating assigned to Lloyd's, and Chaucer has very limited ability to directly affect the overall Lloyd's rating;. 28. Table of Contents. •  its ongoing ability to utilize Lloyd's trading licenses in order to underwrite business outside the United Kingdom, including Chaucer's ability to write business in the European market if the United Kingdom withdraws, as planned, from the European Union and Lloyd's does not obtain alternative licensing permissions;. •  its ongoing exposure to levies and charges in order to underwrite at Lloyd's; and. •  the requirement to maintain deposits in the U.S. for site risks it underwrites there.. Whenever a member of Lloyd's is unable to pay its policyholder obligations, such obligations may be payable by the Lloyd's Central Fund. If Lloyd's determines that the Central Fund needs to be increased, it has the power to assess premium levies on current Lloyd's members up to 3% of a member's underwriting capacity in any one year. We do not believe that any assessment is likely in the foreseeable future and have not provided allowance for such an assessment. However, based on our 2018 estimated underwriting capacity at Lloyd's of £796.5 million, the December 31, 2017 exchange rate of 1.35 dollars per GBP and assuming the maximum 3% assessment, we could be assessed up to approximately $32.3 million in 2018.. We are subject to litigation risks, including risks relating to the application and interpretation of contracts, and adverse outcomes in litigation and legal proceedings could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to litigation risks, including risks relating to the application and interpretation of insurance and reinsurance contracts, and are routinely involved in litigation that challenges specific terms and language incorporated into property and casualty contracts, such as claims reimbursements, covered perils and exclusion clauses, among others, or the interpretation or administration of such contracts. We are also involved in legal actions that do not arise in the ordinary course of business, some of which assert claims for substantial amounts. Adverse outcomes, including with respect to the matter captioned \"Durand Litigation\" under \"Commitments and Contingencies  -  Legal Proceedings\" in Note 18 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K, could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to mandatory assessments by state guaranty funds; an increase in these assessments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. All fifty U.S. states and the District of Columbia have insurance guaranty fund laws requiring property and casualty insurance companies doing business within the state to participate in guaranty associations. These associations are organized to pay contractual obligations under insurance policies issued by impaired or insolvent insurance companies. The associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired or insolvent insurer is engaged. Although mandatory assessments by state guaranty funds that are used to cover losses to policyholders of insolvent or rehabilitated companies can be substantially recovered through policyholder surcharges or a reduction in future premium taxes in many states (provided the collecting insurer continues to write business in such state), there can be no assurance that all funds will be recoupable in the future. During 2017, we had a total assessment of $3.9 million levied against us, with refunds of $1.0 million received in 2017 for a total net assessment of $2.9 million. As of December 31, 2017, we have $0.5 million of reserves related to guaranty fund assessments. In the future, these assessments may increase above levels experienced in the current and prior years. Future increases in these assessments depend upon the rate of insolvencies of insurance companies. An increase in assessments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, or if we experience the loss or retirement of key executives or other key employees, we may not be able to compete effectively and our operations could be impacted significantly.. Our future success will be affected by our continued ability to attract, develop and retain qualified executives and other key employees, particularly those experienced in the property and casualty industry and the Lloyd's market.. Our profitability could be adversely affected by our relationships with our agencies.. We distribute our products exclusively through independent agents and brokers who have the principal relationships with policyholders. Agents and brokers generally own the \"renewal rights\", and thus our business model is dependent on our relationships with, and the success of, the agents and brokers with whom we do business.. We periodically review the agencies, including managing general agencies, that we do business with to identify those that do not meet our profitability standards or are not strategically aligned with our business. Following these periodic reviews, we may restrict such agencies' access to certain types of policies or terminate our relationship with them, subject to applicable contractual and regulatory requirements that limit our ability to terminate agents or require us to renew policies. We may not achieve the desired results from these measures, and our failure to do so could negatively affect our operating results and financial position.. 29. Table of Contents. In addition, we could be adversely affected if the agencies, including managing general agencies, that we do business with exceed the authority that we have given them, fail to transfer premium to us or breach the obligations that they owe to us. Although we routinely monitor our agency relationships, such actions could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. Also, if agency consolidation continues at its current pace or increases in the future and more agencies are consolidated into larger agencies or managing general agencies, our sales channel could be materially affected in a number of ways, including loss of market access or market share in certain geographic areas if an acquirer is not one of our appointed agencies, loss of agency talent as the people most knowledgeable about our products and with whom we have developed strong working relationships exit the business following a disposition of an agency, increases in our commission costs as larger agencies acquire more negotiating leverage over their fees, and interfere with the core agency business of selling insurance due to integration or distraction. Any such disruption that materially affects our sales channel could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. We may be affected by disruptions caused by the introduction of new products, related technology changes, and new operating models in Commercial Lines, Personal Lines and Chaucer businesses and recent or future acquisitions, and expansion into new geographic areas.. There are increased underwriting risks associated with premium growth and the introduction of new products or programs in our Commercial Lines, Personal Lines and Chaucer businesses. Additionally, there are increased underwriting risks associated with the appointment of new agencies and managing general agencies and with the expansion into new geographical areas, including international expansion.. The introduction of new Commercial Lines products and the development of new niche and specialty lines, presents new risks. Certain new specialty products may present longer \"tail\" risks and increased volatility in profitability. Our expansion into western states, including California, presents additional underwriting risks since the regulatory, geographic, natural risk, legal environment, demographic, business, economic and other characteristics of these states present challenges different from those in the states where we historically have conducted business.. Our Personal Lines production and earnings may be unfavorably affected by the continued introduction of new products, expanded risk appetites and our focus on account business (i.e., policyholders who have both automobile and homeowner insurance with us) which we believe, despite pricing discounts, will ultimately be more profitable business. We may also experience adverse selection, which occurs when insureds with larger risks purchase our products because of favorable pricing, under-pricing, operational difficulties or implementation impediments with independent agents or the inability to grow new markets after the introduction of new products or the appointment of new agents.. As we enter new states or regions or grow business, there can be no assurance that we won't experience higher loss trends than anticipated.. Chaucer Dublin was formed to provide an alternative platform for writing certain insured risks outside the Lloyd's framework. There can be no assurances that the anticipated benefits of operating through this platform will materialize as planned. Additionally, the expansion of Chaucer's political risk and trade credit business and development of its accident and health business, present new risks.. We may experience difficulties with technology, data security and/or outsourcing relationships, which could have a negative impact on our ability to conduct our business.. We use computer systems to store, retrieve, evaluate and utilize customer and company data and information. Our computer, information technology and telecommunications systems, in turn, interface with and rely upon third-party systems, including cloud-based data storage. Our business is highly dependent on our ability, and the ability of certain third parties, to access these systems to perform necessary business functions, including, without limitation, providing insurance quotes, processing premium payments, making changes to existing policies, filing and paying claims, providing customer support and managing investment portfolios. Systems attacks, failures or outages could compromise our ability to perform these functions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to conduct business and hurt our relationships with our business partners and customers. In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus, a cyber security attack, a terrorist attack or war, or interference from solar flares, our systems or the external systems that we rely on may be inaccessible to our employees, customers or business partners for an extended period of time. Even if our employees are able to report to work, they may be unable to perform their duties for an extended period of time if our data or the systems that we rely on are disabled or destroyed or if our disaster recovery plans are inadequate or suffer from unforeseen consequences. This could result in a materially adverse effect on our business results and liquidity.. In addition, we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by e-mail and other electronic means. While we attempt to utilize secure transmission capabilities with third-party vendors and others with whom we do business, we may be unable to put in place secure capabilities with all of such vendors and third parties and, in addition, these third parties may not have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information.. 30. Table of Contents. Our systems and the systems that we rely on, like others in the financial services industry, are vulnerable to cyber security risks, and we are subject to disruption caused by such activities. Large corporations such as ours are subject to daily attacks on their systems. Such attacks may have various goals, from seeking confidential information to causing operational disruption. Such activities could result in material disruptions to our operations and material damage to our reputation, and no assurances can be made that such attacks will not be successful. As cyber attacks become more prevalent and the methods used to perpetrate them change, we may be required to devote additional personnel, or financial or systems resources, to protecting our data security or investigating or remediating vulnerabilities. Such resources could be costly in time and expenses, and could detract from resources spent on our core property and casualty insurance operations.. Additionally, we could be subject to liability if confidential customer information is misappropriated from our computer systems, those of our vendors or others with whom we do business, or otherwise. Despite whatever security measures may be in place, any such systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors, human error, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. Any well-publicized compromise of security could deter people from entering into transactions that involve transmitting confidential information, or damage our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We outsource certain technology and business process functions and data storage to third parties and may do so increasingly in the future. If we do not effectively develop, implement and monitor our outsourcing strategies, third-party providers do not perform as anticipated or we experience technological or other problems with a transition, we may not realize productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business. Our outsourcing of certain technology, data storage and business process functions to third parties may expose us to enhanced risk related to data security, which could result in monetary and reputational damages. In addition, our ability to receive services from third-party providers outside of the United States might be impacted by cultural differences, political instability, regulatory requirements or policies inside or outside of the United States. As a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected.. Integration of acquired businesses involves a number of risks, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful integrating recent and future acquisitions.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate recent and any future acquisitions or that we will not assume unknown liabilities and reserve deficiencies in connection with such acquisitions. If we are unable to successfully integrate new businesses, then we could be impeded from realizing the benefits of an acquisition. The integration process could disrupt our business, and a failure to successfully integrate newer businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The difficulties of integrating an acquisition and risks to our business include, among others:. •  unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other system or unknown vulnerabilities or inadequacies of an acquired company's systems;. •  assumption of unknown and unrecorded liabilities;. •  unanticipated incompatibility of logistics, marketing and administration methods;. •  maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees;. •  integrating the business cultures of different companies;. •  preserving important strategic, reinsurance and other relationships;. •  integrating legal and financial controls in multiple jurisdictions;. •  consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations;. •  the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business concerns;. •  integrating geographically separate organizations;. •  unexpected or overlapping concentrations of risk where one event or series of events can affect many insured parties;. •  significant transaction costs, including the effect of exchange rate fluctuations;. •  risks and uncertainties in our ability to increase the investment yield on the investment portfolio;. •  uncertainties in our ability to decrease leverage as a result of adding future earnings to our capital base;. •  risks and uncertainties regarding the volatility of underwriting results in a combined entity;. •  the ability to more efficiently manage capital;. •  the ability to improve renewal rates and increase new property and casualty policy counts;. 31. Table of Contents. •  the ability to increase or maintain certain property and casualty insurance rates;. •  complying with laws, rules and regulations in multiple jurisdictions, including new and multiple employment regulations, regulations relating to the conduct of business activities such as the U.K. Bribery Act, sanctions imposed by the U.S., E.U. or U.K. on doing business with certain foreign countries or other persons, tax, privacy, information security, and environmental-related laws; and. •  the impact of new product or line of business introductions and our ability to meet projected return on capital targets.. In addition, even if we are able to successfully integrate recent and future acquisitions, we may not realize the full benefits of such acquisitions, including the synergies, cost savings or underwriting or growth opportunities that we expect. It is possible that these benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all.. Our international operations expose us to additional risks which could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. Our operations extend to countries outside the U.S., and operating globally increases the scope of our risks and exposes us to certain additional risks, including but not limited to:. •  an expansion in the scope of the risks that our U.S. operations are subject to as an insurance company, such as risk of adverse loss development, litigation, investment risks and the possibility of significant catastrophe losses (as a result of natural disasters, nuclear accidents, severe weather and terrorism) occurring outside the U.S.;. •  compliance with a variety of national and local laws, regulations and practices of the countries where we conduct business and adherence to any changes in such laws, regulations and practices affecting the insurance industry in such countries;. •  the effect of the Brexit Referendum and related consequences on (i) Chaucer's licensing permissions in European Union member states if Lloyd's does not obtain alternative licensing permissions; (ii) market conditions in the U.K. and the European market; and (iii) foreign exchange volatility;. •  reduced market access in foreign markets due to increases in nationalism and protectionism sentiment;. •  adverse changes, including as a result of political instability, in the economies where we operate; and. •  requirements, such as those enforced by Her Majesty's Treasury, Asset Freezing Unit (U.K.) and the U.S. Treasury's Office of Foreign Asset Controls, to comply with various U.K., U.S., E.U. or other sanctions imposed on doing business with, or affecting, certain countries, their citizens, specially designated nationals or other persons doing business with any such countries or persons.. Under the foreign sanctions regimes established by the United States, Chaucer, as a non-U.S. subsidiary of THG, is permitted to engage in certain transactions which would be prohibited if engaged in by U.S. citizens or persons acting within the jurisdiction of the U.S., including our U.S. subsidiaries.  For example, under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action Regarding Iran's Nuclear Program (the \"JCPOA\"), the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control issued General License H (\"GLH\"), which permits foreign subsidiaries, such as Chaucer, to conduct business involving Iran and Iranian assets, subject to limitations and prescriptions.  Chaucer has entered into a transaction in compliance with GLH and the following disclosure about such transaction is provided pursuant to Section 13(r) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended:. Following Implementation Day of the JCPOA, Chaucer syndicate 1084 agreed to a 5% participation in an aviation reinsurance arrangement to reinsure Bimeh Iran (\"Iran Insurance Company\"), an insurer wholly-owned by the Government of Iran.  The arrangement reinsured the hull, liability and cargo risks incurred by the underlying insured, Iran Air.  The arrangement incepted in June 2016 and was renewed on June 22, 2017, when Bimeh Markazi, another insurer wholly-owned by the Government of Iran, was added as an additional reinsured.  This reinsurance arrangement has at all times been compliant with GLH.  The insuring language of the reinsurance arrangement contains a \"sanctions exclusion\" clause which would terminate coverage in the event Chaucer was not permitted to provide coverage under applicable law, including any subsequent changes in U.S., U.K. or other laws or regulations which would make continuation of such coverage non-compliant.  Estimated gross revenues from the reinsurance arrangement in 2016 and 2017 were $262,105 and $261,016, respectively, and revenues, net of brokerage expenses and estimated retrocession costs, were $135,459 and $170,355, respectively.  It is not possible at this time to determine the net profit from the arrangement, although as of December 31, 2017, no claims have been paid by Chaucer to either of the reinsureds.  Chaucer expects that from time to time it may enter into other such transactions provided that they continue to be permissible under GLH and not prohibited by U.S. or other applicable sanctions regimes.. 32. Table of Contents. Intense competition could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability, particularly in light of the various competitive, financial, strategic, structural, informational and resource advantages that our competitors have.. We compete, and will continue to compete, with a large number of companies, including international, national and regional insurers, specialty insurance companies, so called \"off-shore\" companies which enjoy certain tax advantages (although certain off-shore tax advantages may not be as pronounced following U.S. tax reform in 2017), underwriting agencies and financial services institutions. We also compete with mutual insurance companies, reciprocal and exchange companies that may not have shareholders and may have different profitability targets than publicly or privately owned companies. Chaucer competes with numerous other Lloyd's syndicates and managing agents, domestic and international insurers and government or government-sponsored insurance or reinsurance mechanisms. In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry, resulting in increased competition from large, well-capitalized financial services firms. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical and operating resources than we do, greater access to \"big data\", and may be able to offer a wider range of, or more sophisticated, commercial and personal line products. Some of our competitors also have different marketing, advertising and sales strategies than we do and market and sell their products to consumers directly. Some companies are seeking to protect new products with patents or other legal protections, which may create new legal exposures or limit our ability to develop competing products. In addition, competition in the U.S. and international property and casualty insurance markets has intensified over the past several years. This competition has had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our revenues and profitability.. A number of new, proposed or potential legislative or industry developments could further increase competition in our industry. These developments include:. •  the implementation of commercial lines deregulation in several states;. •  programs in which state-sponsored entities provide property insurance in catastrophe-prone areas or other alternative markets types of coverage; and. •  changing practices caused by the Internet, application-based programs relying on algorithms and computer modeling to underwrite policies and administer claims, and the increased usage of real time comparative rating tools and claims management processes, which have led to greater competition in the insurance business in general, particularly on the basis of price.. We could face heightened competition resulting from the entry of new competitors and the introduction of new products by new and existing competitors. Additionally, recent entries into the property and casualty marketplace by large technology companies, retail companies, so-called \"Insurtech\" companies and other non-traditional insurance providers, who aim to leverage their information about and direct access to customers, technology without the burden of legacy systems, access and ability to manipulate \"big data,\" artificial intelligence or other developing opportunities, may increase competition. Increased competition could make it difficult for us to obtain new customers, retain existing customers or maintain policies in force by existing customers. It could also result in increasing our service, administrative, policy acquisition or general expense due to the need for additional advertising and marketing of our products. In addition, our administrative, technology and management information systems expenditures could increase substantially as we try to maintain or improve our competitive position.. We compete for business not just on the basis of price, but also on the basis of product coverages, reputation, financial strength, quality of service (including claims adjustment service), experience and breadth of product offering. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain a competitive position in the markets where we operate, or that we will be able to expand our operations into new markets. If we fail to do so, our business could be materially and adversely affected.. We are rated by several rating agencies, and downgrades to our ratings could adversely affect our operations.. Our ratings are important in establishing our competitive position and marketing the products of our insurance companies to our agents and customers, because rating information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry.. Our insurance company subsidiaries are rated by A.M. Best, Moody's, and Standard & Poor's. These ratings reflect a rating agency's opinion of our insurance subsidiaries' financial strength, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet their obligations to policyholders. These ratings are not evaluations directed to investors, and are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities. Our ratings are subject to periodic review by the rating agencies, and we cannot guarantee the continued retention or improvement of our current ratings. This is particularly true given that rating agencies may change their criteria or increase capital requirements for various rating levels. In addition, Chaucer's rating is derived from the rating assigned to Lloyd's, and Chaucer has very limited ability to directly affect the overall Lloyd's rating.. A downgrade in one or more of our or any of our subsidiaries' claims-paying ratings could negatively impact our business and competitive position, particularly in lines where customers require us to maintain minimum ratings. Additionally, a downgrade in one or more of our debt ratings could adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets and other sources of funds, increase the cost of current credit facilities, and/or adversely affect pricing of new debt sought in the capital markets in the future.. 33. Table of Contents. Negative changes in our level of statutory surplus could adversely affect our ratings and profitability.. The capacity for a U.S. insurance company's growth in premiums is in part a function of its statutory surplus. Maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus, as measured by state insurance regulators, is considered important by state insurance regulatory authorities and by rating agencies that rate insurers' claims-paying abilities and financial strength. As our business grows, or due to other factors, regulators may require that additional capital be contributed to increase the level of statutory surplus. Failure to maintain certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, action by state regulatory authorities or a downgrade by private rating agencies. Our surplus is affected by, among other things, results of operations and investment gains, losses, impairments, and dividends from the insurance operating company to its parent company. A number of these factors affecting our level of statutory surplus are, in turn, influenced by factors that are out of our control, including the frequency and severity of catastrophes, changes in policyholder behavior, changes in rating agency models and economic factors such as changes in equity markets, credit markets, interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates.. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, uses a system for assessing the adequacy of statutory capital for U.S. property and casualty insurers. The system, known as risk-based capital, is in addition to the states' fixed dollar minimum capital and other requirements. The system is based on risk-based formulas that apply prescribed factors to the various risk elements in an insurer's business and investments to report a minimum capital requirement proportional to the amount of risk assumed by the insurer. We believe that any failure to maintain appropriate levels of statutory surplus would have an adverse impact on our ability to grow our business profitably.. We may not be able to grow as quickly or as profitably as we intend, which is important to our current strategy.. Over the past several years, we have made and our current plans are to continue to make, significant investments in our Commercial and Personal Lines of business, in order to, among other things, strengthen our product offerings and service capabilities, expand into new geographic areas, improve technology and our operating models, build expertise in our personnel, and expand our distribution capabilities, with the ultimate goal of achieving significant, sustained growth. The ability to achieve significant profitable premium growth in order to earn adequate returns on such investments and expenses, and to grow further without proportionate increases in expenses, is an important part of our current strategy. There can be no assurance that we will be successful at profitably growing our business, or that we will not alter our current strategy due to changes in our markets or an inability to successfully maintain acceptable margins on new business or for other reasons, in which case premiums written and earned, operating income and net book value could be adversely affected.. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and shareholders' equity.. Upon an acquisition of a business, we record goodwill and intangible assets at fair value. Goodwill and intangible assets determined to have indefinite useful lives are not amortized, while other intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Goodwill and intangible assets that are not amortized are reviewed for impairment at least annually. Evaluating the recoverability of such assets requires us to rely on estimates and assumptions related to return on equity, margin, growth rates, discount rates, and other data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors, and significant judgment is required in applying these factors. Goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges can result from declines in operating results, divestitures or sustained market declines and other factors. As of December 31, 2017, goodwill and intangible assets that are not amortized totaled $259 million and represented approximately 9% of shareholders' equity. Our legacy Hanover and Citizens businesses represent 50% of this balance; Chaucer represents 22% of this balance; AIX represents 19% of this balance; and, the remaining acquisitions combined represent 9% of this balance. Although we believe these assets are recoverable, we cannot provide assurance that future market or business conditions would not result in the impairment of a portion of these assets. Impairment charges could materially affect our financial position and our financial results in the quarter or annual period in which they are recognized.. We could be subject to additional losses related to the sale of our discontinued FAFLIC and variable life insurance and annuity businesses.. On January 2, 2009, we sold our remaining life insurance subsidiary, FAFLIC, to Commonwealth Annuity and Life Insurance Company. Coincident with the sale transaction, Hanover Insurance and FAFLIC entered into a reinsurance contract whereby Hanover Insurance assumed FAFLIC's discontinued accident and health insurance business. We previously owned Commonwealth Annuity, but sold it in 2005 in conjunction with our disposal of our variable life insurance and annuity business.. In connection with these transactions, we have agreed to indemnify Commonwealth Annuity for certain contingent liabilities, including litigation and other regulatory matters. We cannot provide assurance as to what the costs of these indemnifications will be when they ultimately settle.. 34. Table of Contents. We may incur financial losses related to our discontinued assumed accident and health reinsurance pools and arrangements.. We previously participated, through FAFLIC, in approximately 40 assumed accident and health reinsurance pools and arrangements. The business was retained in the sale of FAFLIC and assumed by Hanover Insurance through a reinsurance agreement. In 1999, prior to the sale of FAFLIC to Commonwealth Annuity, FAFLIC had ceased writing new premiums in this business, subject to certain contractual obligations. The reinsurance pool business consists primarily of long-term care, the medical and disability portions of workers' compensation risks, assumed personal accident, individual medical, long-term disability and special risk business. We are currently monitoring and managing the run-off of our related participation in the 24 pools with remaining liabilities.. Loss estimates associated with substantially all of the discontinued accident and health business are provided by managers of each pool. Reserve estimates for this business are subject to the variability caused by extended loss emergence periods. The estimation of reserves for this business is further complicated by delays between the time a claim is reported to the ceding insurer and when the claim, premium and other pertinent policy data is reported by the ceding insurer to the pool manager and then to us, and by our dependence on the quality and consistency of the claim cost reporting by the ceding company and actuarial estimates by the pool manager. We adopt reserve estimates for this business that consider this information, expected returns on assets assigned to this business and other facts. We update these reserves as new information becomes available and further events occur that may affect the ultimate resolution of unsettled claims. Based on information provided to us by the pool managers, we believe that the reserves recorded related to this business are adequate. However, since reserve and claim cost estimates related to the discontinued accident and health business are dependent on several assumptions, including, but not limited to, morbidity, lapses, future premium rates, future health care costs, persistency of medical care inflation and investment performance, and these assumptions can be impacted by technical developments and advancements in the medical field and other factors, there can be no assurance that the reserves established for this business will prove sufficient. Revisions to these reserves could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for a particular quarterly or annual period or on our financial position.. Our long-term care pool accounts for the majority of our remaining accident and health reinsurance pool business.  The potential risk and exposure of our long-term care pool is based upon expected estimated claims and payment patterns, using assumptions for, among other things, morbidity, lapses, future premium rates, and the interest rate used for discounting the future projected cash flows. The long-term exposure of this pool depends upon how our actual experience compares with these future cash flow projection assumptions. If any of our assumptions prove to be inaccurate, our reserves may be inadequate, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2017, we received updated future cash flow projections from the manager of our long-term care pool that reflected a significant increase in projected claim costs. As a result of this deterioration, we increased our long-term care pool reserves by $23.3 million (44%), before tax, during the fourth quarter.. For some of these pools and arrangements, we variously acted as a reinsurer, a reinsured or both. In some instances, we ceded significant exposures to other reinsurers in the marketplace. The potential risk to us as a participant in such pools is primarily that other companies that reinsured this business from us may fail to pay their reinsurance obligations. Thus, we are exposed to both assumed losses and to credit risk related to these pools. We are not currently engaged in any significant disputes in respect to this business. At this time, we do not anticipate that any significant portion of recorded reinsurance recoverables will be uncollectible. However, we cannot provide assurance that all recoverables are collectible and should these recoverables prove to be uncollectible, our results of operations and financial position may be negatively affected.. Based on the information provided by the pool managers, we believe that the reserves recorded related to this business are appropriate. However, due to the inherent volatility in this business and the reporting lag of losses that tend to develop over time and which ultimately affect excess covers, there can be no assurance that current reserves are adequate or that we will not have additional losses in the future. Although we have discontinued participation in these reinsurance arrangements, unreported and new claims related to the years in which we were a participant may be reported, and previously reported claims may develop unfavorably. If any such unreported claims or unfavorable development is reported to us, our results of operations and financial position may be negatively impacted.. Other market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions may also negatively affect our business, profitability and investment portfolio.. It is difficult to predict the impact of a challenging economic environment on our business. In Commercial Lines, a difficult economy has resulted in reductions in demand for insurance products and services since there are more companies ceasing to do business and there are fewer business start-ups, particularly as small businesses are affected by a decline in overall consumer and business spending. Additionally, claims frequency could increase as policyholders submit and pursue claims more aggressively than in the past, fraud incidences may increase, or we may experience higher incidents of abandoned properties or poorer maintenance, which may also result in more claims activity. We have experienced higher workers' compensation claims as injured employees take longer to return to work, increased surety losses as construction companies experience financial pressures and higher retroactive premium returns as audit results reflect lower payrolls. Our business could also be affected by an ensuing consolidation of independent insurance agencies. Our ability to increase pricing has been impacted as agents and policyholders have been more price sensitive, customers. 35. Table of Contents. shop for policies more frequently or aggressively, utilize comparative rating models or, in Personal Lines in particular, turn to direct sales channels rather than independent agents. We have also experienced decreased new business premium levels, retention and renewal rates, and renewal premiums. Specifically in Personal Lines, policyholders may reduce coverages or change deductibles to reduce premiums, experience declining home values, or be subject to increased foreclosures, and policyholders may retain older or less expensive automobiles and purchase or insure fewer ancillary items such as boats, trailers and motor homes for which we provide coverages. Additionally, if as a result of a difficult economic environment, drivers continue to eliminate automobile insurance coverage or to reduce their bodily injury limit, we may be exposed to more uninsured and underinsured motorist coverage losses.. Chaucer's business is similarly subject to risks related to the economy. In addition to the risks noted above, adverse economic conditions could negatively affect our ability to obtain letters of credit utilized by Chaucer to underwrite business through Lloyd's.. At December 31, 2017, we held approximately $9 billion of investment assets in categories such as fixed maturities, equity securities, other investments, and cash and short-term investments. Our investments are primarily concentrated in the U.S. domestic market; however, we have exposure to international markets as well, with approximately 16% of our cash and investment assets invested in foreign markets. Our investment returns, and thus our profitability, statutory surplus and shareholders' equity, may be adversely affected from time to time by conditions affecting our specific investments and, more generally, by bond, stock, real estate and other market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions, including the impact of changing government policies, including monetary policies, and geopolitical risks. Many of these broader market conditions are out of our control. Our ability to make a profit on insurance products depends in part on the returns on investments supporting our obligations under these products, and the value of specific investments may fluctuate substantially depending on the foregoing conditions. We may use a variety of strategies to hedge our exposure to interest and currency rates and other market risks. However, hedging strategies are not always available and carry certain credit risks, and our hedging could be ineffective. Moreover, increased government regulation of certain derivative transactions used to hedge certain market risks has served to prevent (or otherwise substantially increase the cost associated with) hedging such risks.. Additionally, the aggregate performance of our investment portfolio depends, to a significant extent, on the ability of our investment managers to select and manage appropriate investments. As a result, we are also exposed to operational risks, which may include, but are not limited to, a failure to follow our investment guidelines, technological and staffing deficiencies and inadequate disaster recovery plans. The failure of these investment managers to perform their services in a manner consistent with our expectations and investment objectives could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business.. Debt securities comprise a material portion of our investment portfolio. The concentration of our investment portfolio in any one type of investment, industry or geography could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our investment portfolio. The issuers of debt securities, as well as borrowers under the loans we make, customers, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, banks which have commitments under our various borrowing arrangements, and reinsurers, may be affected by declining market conditions or credit weaknesses. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to lack of liquidity, downturns in the economy or real estate values, operational failure, bankruptcy or other reasons. Future increases in interest rates could result in increased defaults as borrowers are unable to pay the additional borrowing costs on variable rate securities or obtain refinancing. We cannot assure you that further impairment charges will not be necessary in the future. In addition, evaluation of available-for-sale securities for other-than-temporary impairment includes inherent uncertainty and subjective determinations. We cannot be certain that such impairments are adequate as of any stated date. Our ability to fulfill our debt and other obligations could be adversely affected by the default of third parties on their obligations owed to us.. Deterioration in the global financial markets may adversely affect our investment portfolio and have a related impact on our other comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and overall investment performance. As economic growth has improved in recent years, central bank policies and fiscal policies are either in transition or returning to a more prominent role across the globe, but the effects of such policies on financial markets are uncertain.. In addition, our current borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston (\"FHLBB\") are secured by collateral. If the fair value of pledged collateral falls below specific levels, we would be required to pledge additional collateral or repay any outstanding FHLBB borrowings.. Market conditions also affect the value of assets under our employee pension plans, including our U.S. Cash Balance Plan and Chaucer pension plan. The expense or benefit related to our employee pension plans results from several factors, including, but not limited to, changes in the market value of plan assets, interest rates, regulatory requirements or judicial interpretation of benefits. At December 31, 2017, our U.S. plan assets included approximately 85% of fixed maturities and 15% of equity securities and other assets. At December 31, 2017, our Chaucer pension plan assets included approximately 55% of equities, 35% of fixed maturities, and 10% of real estate funds. The Chaucer pension plan had net liabilities that exceeded assets by $1.5 million as of December 31, 2017. Additionally, our net liabilities exceed assets by $41.1 million and $36.6 million for our U.S. qualified and U.S. non-qualified (which is an unfunded plan) pension plans, respectively, at December 31, 2017. Declines in the market value of plan assets and lower interest rates from levels at December 31, 2017, among other factors, could impact our funding estimates and negatively affect our results of. 36. Table of Contents. operations. Deterioration in market conditions and differences between our assumptions and actual occurrences, and behaviors, including judicial determinations of ultimate benefit obligations pursuant to the Durand case discussed elsewhere, or otherwise, could result in a need to fund more into the qualified plans to maintain an appropriate funding level.. We may experience unrealized losses on our investments, especially during a period of heightened volatility, or if assumptions related to our investment valuations are changed, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. Our investment portfolio and shareholders' equity can be, and in the past have been, significantly impacted by the changes in the market values of our securities. U.S. and global financial markets and economies remain uncertain. This could result in unrealized and realized losses in future periods, and adversely affect the liquidity of our investments, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and our financial position. At December 31, 2017, our financial position is benefited by $240.1 million as a result of unrealized gains, largely driven by the low interest rate environment. Information with respect to interest rate sensitivity is included in \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures\" in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10-K. Valuation of financial instruments (i.e., Level 1, 2, or 3) include methodologies, estimates, assumptions and judgments that are inherently subjective and open to different interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations or the ability to receive such valuations on sale. During periods of market disruption, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. In addition, in times of financial market disruption, certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data may become illiquid. In those cases, the valuation process includes inputs that are less observable and require more subjectivity and judgment by management. Furthermore, a change in the subjective methodologies, estimates, assumptions and judgments used to value our investments could also materially affect the valuation of certain investments.. If, following such declines, we are unable to hold our investment assets until they recover in value, or if such asset value never recovers, we would incur other-than-temporary impairments that would be recognized as realized losses in our results of operations, reduce net income and earnings per share and adversely affect our liquidity. Impairment determinations, like valuations, are also subjective, and changes to the methodologies, estimates, assumptions and judgments used to determine impairments may affect the timing and amount of impairment losses recognized in our results of operations. Temporary declines in market value are recorded as unrealized losses, which do not affect net income and earnings per share, but reduce other comprehensive income, which is reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We cannot provide assurance that we will not have additional other-than-temporary impairments and/or unrealized or realized investment losses in the future. Likewise, there can be no assurance that our investment portfolio will retain the net unrealized gains reflected on the balance sheet as of December 31, 2017, since such gains are dependent on prevailing interest rates, credit ratings and creditworthiness and general economic and other factors.. We invest a portion of our portfolio in common stock or preferred stocks. The value of these assets fluctuates with the equity markets. Particularly in times of economic weakness, the market value and liquidity of these assets may decline, and may impact net income, capital and cash flows.. We are exposed to significant capital market risks related to changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices and foreign exchange rates, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.. We are exposed to significant capital markets risk related to changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. If significant, declines in equity prices, changes in interest rates, changes in credit spreads and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our results, financial position or cash flows. Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. Our investment portfolio contains interest rate sensitive instruments, such as fixed income securities, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates from governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. A rise in market yields would reduce the fair value of our investment portfolio, but provide the opportunity to earn higher rates of return on funds reinvested. A further decline in interest rates, on the other hand, would increase the fair value of our investment portfolio, but we would earn lower rates of return on reinvested assets. We may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover liabilities, and such liquidation could be accelerated in the event of significant loss events, such as catastrophes. Although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities.. Our investment portfolio is invested primarily in high quality, investment-grade fixed income securities. However, we also invest in non-investment-grade high yield fixed income securities and alternative investments. These securities, which pay a higher rate of interest, also have a higher degree of credit or default risk. These securities may also be less liquid in times of economic weakness or market disruptions. Additionally, the reported value of our investments do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market price for the asset, and if we require significant amounts of cash on short notice, we may have difficulty selling our investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. While we have procedures to monitor the credit risk and liquidity of our invested assets, we expect from time to time, and particularly in periods of economic weakness, to experience default losses in our portfolio. This would result in a corresponding reduction of net income, capital and cash flows.. 37. Table of Contents. Inflationary pressures may negatively impact expenses, reserves and the value of investments.. Inflationary pressures in the geographies in which we operate may negatively impact reserves and the value of investments. In particular, inflationary pressures in the U.S. with respect to medical and health care, automobile repair and construction costs, all of which are significant components of our indemnity liabilities under policies we issue to our customers, and which could also impact the adequacy of reserves we have set aside for prior accident years, may have a negative effect on our results of operations. Inflationary pressures also cause or contribute to, or are the result of, increases in interest rates, which would reduce the fair value of our investment portfolio.. Our operations may be adversely impacted by foreign currency fluctuations.. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. The functional currencies of our Chaucer segment are the U.S. dollar, U.K. pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Euro and Australian dollar. Exchange rate fluctuations relative to the functional currencies may materially impact our financial position. Further, our Chaucer segment transacts business and maintains assets and liabilities in currencies different than its functional currency, which exposes us to changes in currency exchange rates. In addition, locally required capital levels are invested in local currencies in order to satisfy regulatory requirements and to support local insurance operations regardless of currency fluctuations. We attempt to manage our foreign currency exposure through matching of assets and liabilities, and may also utilize derivatives from time to time. Despite our mitigation efforts, exposure to foreign exchange loss could have a material adverse effect on our reported earnings and book value. Chaucer's trade credit business is also susceptible to losses as a result of exchange rate fluctuations.. We are a holding company and rely on our insurance company subsidiaries for cash flow; we may not be able to receive dividends from our subsidiaries in needed amounts and may be required to provide capital to support their operations.. We are a holding company for a diversified group of insurance companies, and our principal assets are the shares of capital stock of these subsidiaries. Our ability to make required interest payments on our debt, as well as our ability to pay operating expenses and pay dividends to shareholders, depends upon the receipt of sufficient funds from our subsidiaries. The payment of dividends by our insurance company subsidiaries is subject to regulatory restrictions and will depend on the surplus and future earnings of these subsidiaries, as well as these regulatory restrictions. We are required to notify insurance regulators prior to paying any dividends from our U.S. insurance subsidiaries, pre-approval is required with respect to \"extraordinary dividends\", and distributions from Chaucer are subject to various requirements imposed by Lloyd's and the PRA and FCA.. Because of the regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends from our insurance company subsidiaries, we may not always be able to receive dividends from these subsidiaries at times and in amounts necessary to meet our debt and other obligations. The inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in an amount sufficient to meet our debt interest and funding obligations would have a material adverse effect on us. These regulatory dividend restrictions also impede our ability to transfer cash and other capital resources among our subsidiaries.. Similarly, our insurance subsidiaries may require capital from the holding company to support their operations. For example, our holding company has provided a guaranty for the benefit of our Chaucer segment to support the letter of credit agreement supplied to support Chaucer's Funds at Lloyd's requirements.. Our dependence on our insurance subsidiaries for cash flow, and their potential need for capital support, exposes us to the risk of changes in their ability to generate sufficient cash inflows from new or existing customers or from increased cash outflows. Cash outflows may result from claims activity, expense payments or investment losses. Because of the nature of our business, claims activity can arise suddenly and in amounts which could outstrip our capital or liquidity resources. Reductions in cash flow or capital demands from our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We may require additional capital or credit in the future, which may not be available or only available on unfavorable terms.. We monitor our capital adequacy on a regular basis. Our future capital and liquidity requirements depend on many factors, including our premiums written, loss reserves and claim payments, investment portfolio composition and risk exposures, the availability of letters and lines of credit, as well as regulatory and rating agency capital requirements. In addition, our capital strength can affect our ratings, and therefore is important to our ability to underwrite. The quality of our claims paying and financial strength ratings are evaluated by independent rating agencies. Such ratings affect our ability to write quality business, our borrowing expenses and our ability to raise capital.. Our Chaucer business is required to satisfy Lloyd's minimum capital standards. We satisfy Lloyd's \"member deposit funds\" requirement (referred to as Funds at Lloyd's or \"FAL\"), in part, through a standby letter of credit. If the letters of credit were drawn, we would expect to use an existing syndicated credit facility to pay a portion of such obligation, which would increase our debt borrowings. Our ability to borrow under this facility is conditioned upon the satisfaction of covenants and other requirements contained in the facility. If the syndicated credit facility was not available to repay this letter of credit facility, we would need to obtain capital elsewhere, and face the risk that alternative financing, such as through cash or other borrowings, would not be available at acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, no assurance can be given as to how much business Lloyd's will permit Chaucer to underwrite in any single year or as to the viability and cost of change to our current capital structure.. 38. Table of Contents. To the extent that our existing capital is insufficient or unavailable to fund our future operating requirements and/or cover claim losses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or limit our growth. Any equity or debt financing, if available, may be on terms that are unfavorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our shareholders could result and, in any case, such securities may have rights, preferences, and privileges that are senior to our common stock. If we are not able to obtain additional capital as necessary, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Errors or omissions in connection with the administration of any of our products may cause our business and profitability to be negatively impacted.. We are responsible to our policyholders for administering their policies, premiums and claims and ensuring that appropriate records are maintained that reflect their transactions. We are subject to risks that errors or omissions of information occurred with respect to the administration of our products. We are also subject to misconduct and fraud on the part of our employees and agents. As a result, we are subject to risks of liabilities associated with \"bad faith,\" unfair claims practices, unfair trade practices or similar allegations. Such risks may stem from allegations of agents, vendors, policyholders, claimants, members of Lloyd's syndicates, reinsurers, regulators, states' attorneys general, Lloyd's, the PRA and FCA, or other international regulators, or others. We may incur charges associated with any errors and omissions previously made or that are made in future periods. These charges may result from our obligation to policyholders to correct any errors or omissions or refund premiums, non-compliance with regulatory requirements, from fines imposed by regulatory authorities, or from other items, which may affect our financial position or results of operations.. We are subject to all of the foregoing risks with respect to the third-party asset management operations of Opus. Opus, which had $1.5 billion of unaffiliated assets under management as of December 31, 2017, is subject to federal (SEC) and other regulatory requirements and is subject to operational, technological, information security, investment and other risks, as well as claims by third parties whose funds it manages.. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws, that impose restrictions and may carry substantial penalties. Violations of these laws or allegations of such violations could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, including anti-bribery legislation in the U.K. that took effect in 2011, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or other commercial advantage. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws that often carry substantial penalties. We cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or other inappropriate acts committed by our affiliates, employees, agents or coverholders. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations."
