[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Investing in our Common Stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information in this Report, before deciding whether to invest in our Common Stock. Our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, as well as other risks not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial. The trading price of our Common Stock could decline as a result of any of these risks, and you could lose part or all of your investment in our Common Stock. When deciding whether to invest in our Common Stock, you should also refer to the other information in this Report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes and the information contained in Part II, Item 7 of this Report entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Please also refer to the Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements appearing in this Annual Report.. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate and our future revenue is difficult to forecast.. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control, including:. <U+25CF>     the level of interest and investment in individual stocks versus index funds and exchange-traded funds (ETF) by both individual and institutional investors, which can impact our ability to sell premium subscription products and to sell advertising;. <U+25CF>     the overall willingness of potential and existing customers to pay for content distributed over the Internet, where a large quantity of content is available for free;. 6. <U+25CF>     demand and pricing for online advertising on TheStreet.com, which is affected by advertising budget cycles of our customers, general economic conditions, demand for advertising on the Internet generally, the supply of advertising inventory in the market and actions by our competitors;. <U+25CF>     the value to potential and existing customers of the investing ideas we offer in our subscription services and the performance of those ideas relative to appropriate benchmarks;. <U+25CF>     new products or services introduced by our competitors;. <U+25CF>     cost of content production, specifically video, traffic acquisition costs, and/or other costs;. <U+25CF>     for our B2B businesses, the volatility in mergers and acquisitions, restructuring and financing activities, interest rates and bank fees;. <U+25CF>     costs or lost revenue associated with system downtime affecting the Internet generally or our Websites in particular;. <U+25CF>     general economic and financial market conditions; and. <U+25CF>     our ability to attract and retain editorial and managerial talent.. We reported net income in 2017 for the first time in almost a decade, however, we had a net loss in each of 2016 and 2015, and have incurred net losses for most years of our history. Despite reporting net income in 2017, there are no assurances we will be able to generate net income in future periods and we cannot assure you that we will reach profitability in the future or at any specific time in the future or that, if and when we do become profitable, we will sustain profitability. If we are ultimately unable to generate sufficient revenue and meet our financial targets and the expectations of public market analysts and investors, the price of our Common Stock is likely to continue to decline.. Key content contributors, particularly James J. Cramer, are important to our B2C premium subscription offerings.. Some of our products, particularly our editorial subscription products, reflect the talents, efforts, personalities, investing skills and portfolio returns, and reputations of their respective writers. As a result, the services of these key content contributors, including our co-founder and chief markets commentator, James J. Cramer, form an essential element of our subscription revenue. In addition to his content contributions, we benefit from Mr. Cramer’s popularity and visibility, which have provided public awareness of our services and introduced our content to new audiences. For example, Mr. Cramer hosts CNBC’s finance television show, Mad Money. If, however, Mr. Cramer no longer appeared on the show or the program was cancelled for any reason, it could negatively impact his public profile and visibility, and in turn, our subscription products. Further, the continued value of Mr. Cramer’s contributions could be materially adversely affected if Mr. Cramer were to otherwise lose popularity with the public. While we believe we greatly benefit from Mr. Cramer’s contributions and his media exposure for other companies, we can give no assurance that our relationship with Mr. Cramer will lead to higher revenues from our subscription products or improve our organic growth.. On November 8, 2017, the company and Mr. Cramer entered into an amended and restated employment agreement with a new four year term, effective January 1, 2018, through December 31, 2021. The employment agreement may be terminated by Mr. Cramer for specified events provided under the employment agreement, and if Mr. Cramer does not complete the term of his employment agreement, our business could be harmed by the loss of his services.. In addition to Mr. Cramer, we seek to compensate and provide incentives for key content contributors through competitive salaries, stock ownership and bonus plans and/or royalty arrangements, and we have entered into employment or contributor agreements with certain of them. If we are unable to retain key content contributors, or, should we lose the services of one or more of our key content contributors to death, disability, loss of reputation or other reason, or should their popularity diminish or their investing returns and investing ideas fail to meet or exceed benchmarks and investor expectations, we may fail to attract new content contributors acceptable to readers of our collection of Websites and editorial subscription products. Thus, the loss of services of one or more of our key content contributors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 7. Our ability to successfully attract and retain subscribers to our B2B and B2C subscription services may be affected by the perceived quality of our content and products, and other factors.. Subscription revenue makes up a significant portion of our overall revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2017, subscription revenue accounted for approximately 78% of our total revenue.. B2B subscription revenue accounted for approximately 46% of our total revenue and 91% of our total B2B revenue. Our results of operations, particularly related to subscription revenue, are affected by certain economic factors, including the performance of the securities markets and mergers and acquisitions activity. While we believe investors and dealmakers are seeking more information related to the financial markets and mergers and acquisitions from trusted sources, the existence of adverse or stagnant securities markets conditions and lack of investor confidence could result in investors decreasing their interest in investor-related and deal-related publications, which could adversely affect the subscription revenue we derive from our B2B businesses.. B2C subscription revenue accounted for approximately 32% of our total revenue and 64% of our total B2C revenue. Our ability to successfully attract and retain subscribers to our B2C subscription products depends on the quality of the content, including the performance of any investment ideas published. To the extent the returns on such portfolios fail to meet or exceed the expectations of our subscribers or the performance of relevant benchmarks, our ability to attract new subscribers or retain existing subscribers to such services will be adversely affected. Additionally, factors such as the expiration of temporary product promotions, changes in our renewal policies or practices for subscribers, or changes in the degree of credit card failures could have a material impact on customer retention.. We may have difficulty maintaining or increasing our advertising revenue, a significant portion of which is concentrated among our top advertisers and subject to industry and other factors.. Although our reliance on advertising has decreased as an overall component of our revenues, it remains important to our growth. Our ability to maintain or increase our advertising revenue may be adversely affected by a variety of factors. Such factors include general market conditions, seasonal fluctuations in financial news consumption and overall online usage, our ability to maintain or increase our unique visitors, page view inventory and user engagement, our ability to attract audiences possessing demographic characteristics most desired by our advertisers, and our ability to retain existing advertisers and win new advertisers in a number of advertising categories from other Websites, television, newspapers, magazines, newsletters or other new media.. 8. As a general matter, the continued fragmentation of digital media has intensified competition for advertising revenues. Advertising revenue could decline if the relationships we have with high-traffic Websites are adversely affected. In addition, our advertising revenue may decline as a result of demand for our products and services, pricing pressures on Internet advertising rates due to industry developments, changes in consumer interest in the financial media and other factors in and outside of our control, including in particular as a result of any significant or prolonged downturn in, or periods of extreme volatility of, the financial markets. Also, our advertising revenue would be adversely affected if advertisers sought to use third-party networks to attempt to reach our audience while they visit third-party sites instead of purchasing advertising from us to reach our audience on our own sites. Further, any advertising revenue that is performance-based may be adversely impacted by the foregoing and other factors. If our advertising revenue significantly decreases, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. In addition to the headwinds facing digital media advertising, technologies have been developed, and will likely continue to be developed, that can block the display of our ads, particularly advertising displayed on personal computers. We generate a portion of our revenue from advertising, including revenue resulting from the display of ads on personal computers. These technologies may have had an adverse effect on our financial results and, if such technologies continue to proliferate, in particular with respect to mobile platforms, our ability to generate advertising revenue may be harmed.. Advertising revenue, of which our top five advertisers accounted for approximately 58%, generated 15% of our total revenue in 2017. Although we have advertisers from outside the financial services industry, such as travel, automotive and technology, a large proportion of our top advertisers are concentrated in financial services, particularly in the online brokerage business. Recent consolidation of financial institutions and other factors could cause us to lose a number of our top advertisers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As is typical in the advertising industry, generally, our advertising contracts have short notice cancellation provisions.. Technology in the media industry continues to evolve rapidly.. Technology in the media industry continues to evolve rapidly. Advances in technology have led to an increasing number of methods for delivery of content and have resulted in a wide variety of consumer demands and expectations, which are also rapidly evolving. If we are unable to exploit new and existing technologies to distinguish our products and services from those of our competitors or adapt to new distribution methods that provide optimal user experiences, our business and financial results may be adversely affected.. The increasing number of digital media options available on the Internet, through social networking tools and through mobile and other devices distributing content is expanding consumer choice significantly. Faced with a multitude of media choices and a dramatic increase in accessible information, consumers may place greater value on when, where, how and at what price they consume digital content.. In addition, the expenditures necessary to implement these new technologies could be substantial and other companies employing such technologies before we are able to do so could aggressively compete with our business.. 9. Many individuals are increasingly using mobile devices rather than personal computers to access news and other online services. If we are unable to effectively provide our content and subscription products to users of these devices, our business could be adversely affected.. The number of people who access news and other online services through mobile devices continues to increase at a rapid rate. As the use of mobile accelerates as the “go-to” method of consuming digital content, our ability to monetize mobile content, for which CPMs (cost per thousand impressions) are lower but on the rise, is increasingly important. We may not be able to generate revenue from advertising or content delivered to mobile devices as effectively as we have for advertising or content delivered to personal computers. As our members increasingly use mobile devices to access our digital products if we are unable to successfully implement monetization strategies for our content on mobile devices, if these strategies are not as successful as our offerings for personal computers, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our financial performance and ability to grow revenue would be negatively affected. Additionally, as new devices, such as wearables, and innovative platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in developing versions of our solutions for use on these alternative devices, and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of such new services and products.. We face significant competition. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have larger customer bases, more established brand recognition and greater financial, marketing, technological and personnel resources than we do, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Additionally, some of our competitors and many potential competitors are better capitalized than we are and able to obtain capital more easily, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage.. Many of our competitors have larger customer bases, more established name recognition, a greater market share and greater financial, marketing, technological and personnel resources than we do. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively with our current or future competitors or that this competition will not significantly harm our business.. Our services face intense competition from other providers of business, personal finance, investing and ratings content, including:. <U+25CF>     with respect to our B2B business, particularly The Deal, providers of business intelligence on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings and financings primarily to investment banks, law firms, hedge funds, private equity firms and corporate institutions, such as Bloomberg, S&P Capital IQ, Dealogic, ThomsonOne and Acuris/Mergermarket Limited;. <U+25CF>     with respect to our B2B business, particularly BoardEx, providers of relationship capital     management services and director, officer and dealmaker data, including Bloomberg, S&P Capital IQ, Dow Jones, The New     York Stock Exchange, LexisNexis, Relationship Science, Equilar and Thomson Reuters;. <U+25CF>     with respect to our B2B business, particularly RateWatch, established ratings services, such as Standard & Poor’s, Morningstar and Lipper as well as rate database providers such as Informa and SNL Financial;. <U+25CF>     with respect to our B2C business, online content providers focused on business, personal finance or investing content, such as The Wall Street Journal Digital Network, CNN Money, Forbes.com, Reuters.com, Bloomberg.com, Seeking Alpha, Business Insider and CNBC.com, as well as portals such as Yahoo! Finance, AOL Daily Finance and MSN Money; and. <U+25CF>     with respect to our B2B and B2C businesses, publishers and distributors of traditional media with a focus on business, finance or investing, such as The Wall Street Journal and the Financial Times, personal finance talk radio programs and business television networks such as Bloomberg, CNBC and the Fox Business Channel as well as investment newsletter publishers, such as The Motley Fool, Stansberry & Associates Investment Research and InvestorPlace Media.. Additionally, advances in technology have reduced the cost of production and online distribution of print, audio and video content, which has resulted in the proliferation of providers of free content. We compete with these other publications and services for customers, including subscribers, readers and viewers of our video content, for advertising revenue, and for employees and contributors to our services. Our ability to compete successfully depends on many factors, including the quality, originality, timeliness, insightfulness and trustworthiness of our content and that of our competitors, the popularity and performance of our contributors, the success of our recommendations and research, our ability to introduce products and services that keep pace with new investing trends, our ability to adopt and deploy new technologies for running our business, the ease of use of services developed either by us or our competitors and the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. In addition, media technologies and platforms are rapidly evolving and the rate of consumption of media on various platforms may shift rapidly. If we fail to offer our content through the platforms in which our audience desires to consume it, or if we do not have offerings on such platforms that are as compelling as those of our competitors, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. In addition, the economics of distributing content through new platforms may be materially different from the economics of distributing content through our current platforms and any such difference may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 10. Our business depends on attracting and retaining capable management and operating personnel.. Our ability to execute our business plan and improve our chances for success in 2018 and beyond depend in large part upon the continued service of our executive officers as well as other key employees. In addition, our ability to compete in the marketplace depends upon our ability to recruit and retain other key employees, including executives to operate our business, technology personnel to run our publishing, commerce, communications, video and other systems, direct marketers to sell subscriptions to our premium services and salespersons to sell our advertising inventory and subscriptions.. Several, but not all, of our key employees are bound by agreements containing non-competition provisions. There can be no assurances that these arrangements with key employees will provide adequate protections to us or will not result in further management changes that would have material adverse impact on us. In addition, we may incur increased costs to continue to compensate our key executives, as well as other employees, through competitive salaries, stock ownership and bonus plans. Nevertheless, we can make no assurances that these programs will allow us to retain our management or key employees or hire new employees. The loss of one or more of our key employees, or our inability to attract experienced and qualified replacements, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 11. If the Company is unable to execute its turnaround, it may not be able to implement its growth strategy successfully.. In 2016, we brought in a new management team, and in 2017, we implemented a business strategy with a focus on increasing revenue and decreasing expenses for our B2C and B2B businesses. The Company continues to evolve into a diverse financial news, data and information company and the success of this depends on the effective execution of our turnaround strategy. The Company's Board of Directors has been undertaking a strategic review of the Company's businesses in order to enhance shareholder value and, in doing so, it may decide to prioritize investments in certain lines of our business as compared to others. There is no assurance that the Company's growth strategy will be successfully implemented. If we are delayed or unsuccessful in executing our strategies, or if our strategies do not yield the desired results, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer.. Acquisitions pose inherent financial and other risks and challenges.. As a part of our strategic plan, we have acquired businesses and may look to acquire businesses in the future. These acquisitions can involve a number of risks and challenges, any of which could cause significant operating inefficiencies and adversely affect our growth and profitability. Such risks and challenges include underperformance relative to our expectations and the price paid for the acquisition; unanticipated demands on our management and operational resources; difficulty in integrating personnel, operations, and systems; retention of customers of the combined businesses; assumption of contingent liabilities; and acquisition-related earnings charges. The benefits of an acquisition or an investment may take considerable time to develop and certain acquisitions may not advance our business strategy and may fall short of expected return on investment targets. If our acquisitions are not successful, we may record impairment charges. Our ability to continue to make acquisitions will depend upon our success at identifying suitable targets, which requires substantial judgment in assessing their values, strengths, weaknesses, liabilities, and potential profitability, as well as the availability of capital.. In October 2014 we acquired BoardEx, a relationship capital management company headquartered in the U.K. with locations in New York, New York and Chennai, India. This acquisition has helped us expand internationally and is helping to accelerate our transition into B2B, becoming an indispensable data, news and information source for institutional clients. However, we can provide no assurances that our long term strategic objectives will be attained or that such acquisition will meet or exceed our expected return.. Our foreign operations subject us to a number of operating, economic, political and regulatory risks that may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our acquisition of BoardEx in October 2014 significantly increased the importance of foreign markets to our future operations and growth and also exposes us to a number of additional risks. Operations outside of the United States may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; unexpected regulatory, social, political, or economic changes in a specific country or region; changes in intellectual property, privacy and data protection; import/export regulations in both the United States and foreign countries and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. Political changes, labor strikes, acts of war or terrorism and natural disasters, some of which may be disruptive, can interfere with our data collection, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location. We may also be affected by potentially adverse tax consequences and difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad. Since approximately half of BoardEx’s revenues are generated outside of the United States, we are exposed to these risks.. 12. We are subject to the European Union, or EU, regulations relating to privacy, including the EU Directive on Data Protection, which imposes significant restrictions on the collection and use of personal data that are more stringent and impose greater burdens on businesses than current privacy standards in the United States. One such burden is a prohibition on the transfer of personal information from the EU to other countries whose laws do not protect personal data to an adequate level of privacy or security.  The United States is one such country and this prohibition and the fact we are subject to the EU regulations may impact on our ability to carry out certain aspects of our business in the United States. The EU has recently passed the General Data Protection Regulation, which will result in greater compliance burdens for companies with users and operations in Europe over the next two years.  The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, these laws, regulations and policies that are applicable to us may limit the use and adoption of our products and solutions and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. Foreign operations are also subject to risks of violations of laws prohibiting improper payments and bribery, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar regulations in foreign jurisdictions. The U.K. Bribery Act, for example, prohibits both domestic and international bribery, as well as bribery across both private and public sectors. An organization that fails to prevent bribery committed by anyone associated with the organization can be charged under the U.K. Bribery Act unless the organization can establish the defense of having implemented adequate procedures to prevent bribery. Failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could adversely affect our consolidated operating results. We operate in foreign jurisdictions, in particular the United Kingdom, where we are exposed to market risks from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For example, the announcement of the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union (referred to as Brexit) caused significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies. The majority of our business transactions are denominated in U.S. dollars, however, for operations outside the United States, we translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currency into U.S. dollars for our financial statements. In 2016, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies adversely affected our results of operations because foreign currencies translated into fewer U.S. dollars. In addition, we will be exposed to the risk of changes in social, political and economic conditions in the countries where we engage in business. Political and economic instability in these countries could adversely affect our business activities and operations. Unexpected changes in local regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers and price or exchange controls could limit operations and make the repatriation of profits difficult. In addition, the uncertainty of differing legal environments could limit our ability to effectively enforce our rights in some markets. We do not engage in currency hedging or have any positions in derivative instruments to hedge our currency risk.. If our goodwill and other intangibles become impaired, we may be required to record further reductions which would negatively impact our financial results.. While we did not record an impairment of goodwill in 2017, we did record a significant impairment of goodwill in 2016 as a result of a number of factors including the decline in our stock price and the performance of past acquisitions. Goodwill and intangible asset impairment analysis and measurement is a process that requires significant judgment. Under the provisions of ASC 350, goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are required to be tested for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests whenever circumstances arise that indicate a possible impairment might exist. We perform our annual impairment tests of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets as of October 1 each year. Impairment exists when the carrying amount of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets exceed their implied fair value, resulting in an impairment charge for this excess. Although we currently do not anticipate any goodwill impairment, we may have to record impairments in the future which may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. 13. System failure or interruption may result in reduced traffic, reduced revenue and harm to our reputation.. Our ability to provide timely, updated information depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. Similarly, our ability to track, measure and report the delivery of advertisements on our Websites depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of third-party systems. Our operations depend in part on the protection of our data systems and those of our third-party providers against damage from human error, natural disasters, fire, power loss, water damage, telecommunications failure, computer viruses, terrorist acts, vandalism, sabotage, and other adverse events. Although we utilize the services of third-party cloud computing providers, specifically Amazon Web Services with procedural security systems and have put in place certain other disaster recovery measures, including offsite storage of backup data, these disaster recovery measures currently may not be comprehensive enough and there is no guarantee that our Internet access and other data operations will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. Any system failure, including network, software or hardware failure, that causes an interruption in our service or a decrease in responsiveness of our Websites could result in reduced traffic, reduced revenue and harm to our reputation, brand and relations with our advertisers and strategic partners. Our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for such losses. In such event, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Our Ratings models, purchased from a third party, were written in legacy technologies that do not have robust backup or recovery provisions. The ongoing production of valid ratings data is based upon the successful continued migration of these legacy systems to more robust and current systems. The hardware platforms upon which these applications run have been migrated to more modern equipment within our multi-redundant hosting facilities; however, many of the core application code remains in production. Migration of such complex applications is time consuming, resource intensive and can pose considerable risk.. Disruptions to our third-party technology providers and management systems could harm our business and lead to loss of customers and advertisers.. We depend on third-party technology providers and management systems to distribute our content and process transactions. For example, we use Fastly and Amazon Web Services to help us efficiently distribute our content to customers. We also use a third party vendor to process credit cards for our subscriptions. We exercise no control over our third-party vendors, which makes us vulnerable to any errors, interruptions, or delays in their operations. Any disruption in the services provided by these vendors could have significant adverse impacts on our business reputation, advertiser and customer relations and operating results. Upon expiration or termination of any of our agreements with third-party vendors, we may not be able to replace the services provided to us in a timely manner or on terms and conditions, including service levels and cost, that are favorable to us, and a transition from one vendor to another vendor could subject us to operational delays and inefficiencies until the transition is complete.. We may face liability for, or incur costs to defend, information published in our services.. From time to time we are subject to claims for defamation, libel, copyright or trademark infringement, fraud or negligence, or other theories of liability, in each case relating to the articles, commentary, investment recommendations, ratings, or other information we provide through our services. We maintain insurance to provide coverage with respect to such claims, but our insurance may not adequately protect us against these claims. For example, from time to time, actions filed against us include claims for punitive damages, which are excluded from coverage under our insurance policies.. Failure to establish and maintain successful strategic relationships with other companies could decrease our subscriber and user base.. We rely in part on establishing and maintaining successful strategic relationships with other companies to attract and retain a portion of our current subscriber and reader base and to enhance public awareness of our brands. In particular, our relationships with Yahoo! Finance, MSN Money and CNN Money, which index our headlines and/or host our content including our video offerings, have been important components of our effort to enhance public awareness of our brands, which awareness we believe also is enhanced by the public appearances of James J. Cramer, in particular on his “Mad Money” television program and on “Squawk on the Street”, both of which are telecast by CNBC. If we do not successfully establish and maintain our strategic relationships on commercially reasonable terms or if these relationships do not attract significant revenue, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. 14. Failure to maintain our reputation for trustworthiness may harm our business.. Our brand is based upon the integrity of our editorial content. We are proud of the trust and reputation for quality we have developed over the course of 20 years and we seek to renew and deepen that trust continually. We require all of our content contributors, whether employees or outside contributors, to adhere to strict standards of integrity, including standards that are designed to prevent any actual or potential conflict of interest, and to comply with all applicable laws, including securities laws. The occurrence of events such as our misreporting a news story, the non-disclosure of a stock ownership position by one or more of our content contributors, the manipulation of a security by one or more of our content contributors, or any other breach of our compliance policies, could harm our reputation for trustworthiness and reduce readership. In addition, in the event the reputation of any of our directors, officers, key contributors, writers or editorial staff were harmed for any other reason, we could suffer as result of our association with the individual, and also could suffer if the quantity or value of future services we received from the individual was diminished. These events could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may not adequately protect our own intellectual property and may incur costs to defend against, or face liability for, intellectual property infringement claims of others.. To protect our intellectual property (“IP”), we rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, patent protection, confidentiality agreements and various other contractual arrangements with our employees, affiliates, customers, strategic partners and others. We own several trademark registrations and copyrights, and have pending trademark and patent applications, in the United States. In addition, our Code of Conduct and Business Ethics, employee handbook, and other internal policies seek to protect our IP against misappropriation, infringement, and unfair competition. We also utilize various tools to police the Internet to monitor piracy and unauthorized use of our content. Finally, whether we are contracting out our IP or licensing third-party content and/or technology, we incorporate contractual provisions to protect our IP and seek indemnification for any third-party infringement claims.. However, we cannot provide any guarantee that the foregoing provisions will be adequate to protect us from third-party claims or that these provisions will prevent the theft of our IP, as we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our IP rights. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could harm our brand, devalue our proprietary content, and affect our ability to compete effectively. Further, any infringement claims, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources on our part, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We face government regulation and legal uncertainties.. We are subject to government regulation in connection with securities laws and regulations applicable to all publicly-owned companies, as well as laws and regulations applicable to businesses generally, including privacy regulations and taxes levied adopted at the local, state, national and international levels. In recent years, consumer protection regulations, particularly in connection with the Internet, have become more aggressive, and we expect that new laws and regulations will continue to be enacted at the local, state, national and international levels. Such new legislation, alone or combined with increasingly aggressive enforcement of existing laws, could have a material adverse effect on our future operating performance and business due to increased compliance costs.. Any failure of our internal security measures or breach of our privacy protections could cause us to lose users and subject us to liability.. Users who subscribe to our paid subscription services are required to furnish certain personal information (including name, mailing address, phone number, email address and credit card information), which we use to administer our services. We also require users of some of our free services and features to provide us with some personal information during the membership registration process. Additionally, we rely on security and authentication technology licensed from third parties to perform real-time credit card authorization and verification, and at times rely on third parties, including technology consulting firms, to help protect our infrastructure from security threats. We may have to continue to expend capital and other resources on the hardware and software infrastructure that provides security for our processing, storage and transmission of personal information.. 15. In this regard, our users depend on us to keep their personal information safe and private and not to disclose it to third parties or permit our security to be breached. However, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments, including improper acts by third parties, may result in a compromise or breach of the security measures we use to protect the personal information of our users. If a party were to compromise or breach our information security measures or those of our agents, such party could misappropriate the personal information of our users, cause interruptions in our operations, expose us to significant liabilities and reporting obligations, damage our reputation and discourage potential users from registering to use our Websites or other services, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We utilize various third parties to assist with various aspects of our business. Some of these partnerships require the exchange of user information. This is required because some features of our Websites may be hosted by these third parties. While we take significant measures to guarantee the security of our customer data and require such third parties to comply with our privacy and security policies as well as generally be contractually bound to defend, indemnify and hold us harmless with respect to any claims related to any breach of relevant privacy laws related to the service provider, we are still at risk if any of these third-party systems are breached or compromised and may in such event suffer a material adverse effect to business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include:. <U+25CF>     not providing for cumulative voting in the election of directors;      <U+25CF>     permitting an amendment of our certificate of incorporation only through a super-majority vote of the stockholders;      <U+25CF>     prohibiting stockholder action by written consent;      <U+25CF>     requiring that, to the fullest extent permitted by law and unless we consent to an alternate forum, certain proceedings against or involving us or our directors, officers, or employees be brought exclusively in the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware;      <U+25CF>     limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and      <U+25CF>     requiring advance notification for stockholder director nominations and other proposals.. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions.. If we fail to meet the requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock would be subject to delisting. The liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected if our common stock is delisted and could cause our trading price to decline.. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol “TST.”. We are required to meet continued listing standards in order to maintain our listing on NASDAQ, such as the requirement that the minimum bid price of a listed company’s stock be at or above $1.00. If we fail to satisfy NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements, our common stock would likely be delisted from NASDAQ. If our common stock is delisted, market liquidity for our common stock could be severely affected and our stockholders’ ability to sell their shares of our common stock could be limited. In addition, our Common Stock could be subject to “penny stock” rules which impose additional disclosure requirements on broker-dealers and could further negatively impact our market liquidity for our common stock and our stockholders’ ability to sell their shares of our common stock. Accordingly, a delisting of our common stock from NASDAQ would negatively affect the value of our common stock. Delisting could also have other negative results, including, but not limited to, the loss of institutional investor interest.. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could reduce our stock price and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute your ownership in us.. Because we may need to raise additional capital in the future to expand our business, we may conduct additional equity offerings. If we or our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued upon the exercise of equity awards) in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. For example, in November 2017, we issued 13,136,363 shares of our common stock in private transactions, which were registered for resale with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 5, 2018. These sales, and any additional sales of shares of our common stock by us or the selling stockholders, could reduce our stock price and will dilute your ownership in us.. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or securities convertible into common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.. Concentrated ownership of our stock can influence stockholder decisions, may discourage a change in control, and may have an adverse effect on share price of our stock.. Investors who purchase our common stock may be subject to certain risks due to the concentrated ownership of our common stock. Our directors, executive officers, and our five percent or greater stockholders as a group, own or control approximately 51% of our common stock. This ownership concentration may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control, and may also have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares. Also as a result of their ownership, our directors, executive officers, and our five percent or greater stockholders as a group, may have the ability to influence the outcome of any matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors.. This concentration of ownership could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay for our common stock, and could discourage or delay a change of control, which other stockholders may favor. The interests of our directors, executive officers and our five percent or greater stockholders may conflict with the interests of other holders of our common stock, and they may take actions affecting us with which other stockholders disagree.. If our ability to use our tax operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes is limited, we may not receive the benefit of those assets.. We have net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $173 million as of December 31, 2017, available to offset future taxable income through 2035. These net operating losses date back to December 1999 and will begin expiring in 2019. Our ability to fully utilize these net operating loss carryforwards is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income before the expiration of the carryforward period attributable to these net operating losses. Furthermore, as a result of prior ownership changes under section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, a portion of these net operating losses will be subject to certain limitations.. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired and investors’ views of us could be harmed.. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. We have evaluated and tested our internal controls in order to allow management to report on our internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we are not able to meet the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we would be required to disclose material weaknesses if they develop or are uncovered and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any such action could negatively impact the perception of us in the financial market and our business.. 16. In addition, our internal controls may not prevent or detect all errors and fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, is based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable assurance that the objectives of the control system will be met. As a smaller reporting company, we were not required to have our independent auditors report on our internal controls for the year ended December 31, 2017.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they publish negative reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock may be influenced by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or change their opinion of our shares or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. We do not expect to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future.. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Consequently, investors may need to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock."
