[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information included in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. The occurrence of any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements and estimates that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks and uncertainties described below.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our results of operations fluctuate from period to period and may not be indicative of our long-term prospects.. The performance of our reinsurance operations and our investment portfolio fluctuate from period to period. Fluctuations result from a variety of factors, including:. • the performance of our investment portfolio;. • reinsurance contract pricing;. • our assessment of the quality of available reinsurance opportunities;. • the volume and mix of reinsurance products we underwrite;. • loss experience on our reinsurance liabilities; and. • our ability to assess and integrate our risk management strategy properly.. In particular, we seek to underwrite products and make investments to achieve a favorable return on equity over the long term. In addition, our opportunistic nature and focus on long-term growth in book value will result in fluctuations in total premiums written from period to period as we concentrate on underwriting contracts that we believe will generate better long-term, rather than short-term, results. Accordingly, our short-term results of operations may not be indicative of our long-term prospects.. 23. Established competitors with greater resources may make it difficult for us to effectively market our products or offer our products at a profit.. The reinsurance industry is highly competitive. We compete with major reinsurers, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do, as well as other potential providers of capital willing to assume insurance or reinsurance risk. Competition in the types of business that we underwrite is based on many factors, including:. • price of reinsurance coverage;. • the general reputation and perceived financial strength of the reinsurer;. • relationships with reinsurance brokers;. • terms and conditions of products offered;. • ratings assigned by independent rating agencies;. • speed of claims payment and reputation; and. • the experience and reputation of the members of our underwriting team in the particular lines of reinsurance we seek to underwrite.. Our competitors include, among others, Alleghany Corporation, Allianz SE, Arch Capital Group Ltd., AXIS Capital Holdings Ltd., Berkshire Hathaway Inc., Chubb Limited, Enstar Group Limited, Everest Re Group, Ltd., Greenlight Reinsurance Ltd., Hamilton Insurance Group Ltd., Hannover Rückversicherung AG, IAT Reinsurance Co Ltd, Maiden Holdings Ltd., Münchener Rückversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG., PartnerRe Ltd., RenaissanceRe Holdings Ltd., SCOR SE, Sirius International Insurance Group, Ltd., Swiss Re Limited, Tokio Marine Holdings, Inc., Watford Re Ltd. and XL Group Ltd.. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in the reinsurance market. Our failure to compete effectively would significantly and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations and may increase the likelihood that we are deemed to be a passive foreign investment company or an investment company. See \"Risks Relating to Insurance and Other Regulation-We are subject to the risk of becoming an investment company under U.S. federal securities law\" and \"Risks Relating to Taxation-United States persons who own our shares may be subject to United States federal income taxation on our undistributed earnings and may recognize ordinary income upon disposition of shares.\". If actual renewals of our existing contracts do not meet expectations, our premiums written in future years and our future results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Many of our contracts are written for a one-year term. In our financial forecasting process, we make assumptions about the renewal of certain prior year's contracts. The insurance and reinsurance industries have historically been cyclical businesses with periods of intense competition, often based on price. If actual renewals do not meet expectations or if we choose not to write on a renewal basis because of pricing conditions, our premiums written in future years and our future operations would be materially adversely affected.. The inherent uncertainty of models and the use of such models as a tool to evaluate risk may have an adverse effect on our financial results.. We make use of quantitative models to evaluate potential reinsurance transactions, to reserve for transactions once they are bound and to assess our risk related to our reinsurance and investment portfolios. These models have been developed internally and in some cases they make use of third party software. The construction of these models and the selection of assumptions requires significant actuarial judgment. Furthermore, these models typically rely on either cedent or industry data, both of which may be incomplete or may be subject to errors by employees, failure to document transactions properly, failure to comply with regulatory requirements or information technology failures. Given the inherent uncertainty in these models as well as the underlying assumptions and data, the results of our models may not accurately address the emergence of a variety of matters which might impact certain of our coverages. Accordingly, these models may understate the exposures we are assuming and our financial results may be adversely affected, perhaps significantly. Any such impact could also be felt across our reinsurance contract portfolio, since similar models and judgment are used in analyzing the majority of our transactions.. 24. Our losses may exceed our loss reserves, which could significantly and negatively affect our business.. Our results of operations and financial condition depends upon our ability to assess accurately the potential losses associated with the risks we reinsure. Reserves are estimates of claims an insurer ultimately expects to pay, based upon facts and circumstances known at the time, predictions of future events, estimates of future trends in claim severity and other variable factors. The inherent uncertainties of estimating loss reserves generally are greater for reinsurance companies as compared to primary insurers, primarily due to:. • the lapse of time from the occurrence of an event to the reporting of the claim and the ultimate resolution or settlement of the claim;. • the diversity of development patterns among different types of reinsurance treaties; and. • heavier reliance on the client for information regarding claims.. Actual losses and loss adjustment expenses paid may deviate substantially from the estimates of our loss reserves, to our detriment. If we determine our loss reserves to be inadequate, we will increase our loss reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which we identify the deficiency. Such a reduction would negatively affect our results of operations. If our losses exceed our loss reserves, our financial condition may be significantly and negatively affected.. As a recently formed reinsurance company, we do not have the benefit of extended loss experience with our cedents. With additional time, we may determine that our cedents' loss emergence, incurred and payment patterns are different from those implied in the original submission data. Consequently, we may experience greater than average deviation in our loss reserve estimates when compared to our more established competitors.. The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Although we seek to mitigate our loss exposure through a variety of methods, property and casualty reinsurance risk is inherently unpredictable. It is difficult to predict the timing, frequency and severity of loss events with statistical certainty or estimate the amount of loss any given occurrence will generate. It is not possible to completely eliminate our exposure to unforecasted or unpredictable events and, to the extent that losses from such risks occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We seek to manage reinsurance volatility by focusing on lines of business that have historically demonstrated more stable return characteristics, such as property quota share, auto, and workers' compensation. These lines of business are often characterized as having exposure to higher frequency and lower severity claims activity, although this has not always been the case. We seek to further manage the volatility of our reinsurance results by writing contracts on a quota share basis and through the use of contractual terms and conditions, such as loss ratio caps, within our reinsurance contracts. However, there can be no assurance that these terms and conditions will be effective in mitigating our exposure. The failure or ineffectiveness of any of our terms and conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We also write reinsurance contracts that seek to provide protection against adverse development on loss reserves. We seek to provide this type of coverage only on relatively stable reserves where we agree with the client's reserving practices and actuarially determined reserve levels.. The property and casualty reinsurance industry is highly cyclical, and we expect to continue to experience periods characterized by excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates.. Historically, reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic events, levels of capacity, general economic conditions, including inflation, changes in equity, debt and other investment markets, changes in legislation, case law and prevailing concepts of liability and other factors. In particular, demand for reinsurance is influenced significantly by the underwriting results of primary insurers and prevailing general economic conditions. The supply of reinsurance is related to prevailing prices and levels of surplus capacity that, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return being realized in the reinsurance industry on both underwriting and investment sides.. 25. As a result, the reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to high levels of available underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity have permitted favorable premium levels and changes in terms and conditions. The supply of available reinsurance capital has increased over the past several years and may increase further, either as a result of capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing insurers or reinsurers.. Continued increases in the supply of reinsurance may have consequences for us and for the reinsurance industry generally, including fewer contracts written, lower premium rates, increased expenses for customer acquisition and retention, and less favorable policy terms and conditions. As a result, we may be unable to fully execute our reinsurance strategy of selling lower-volatility business. The effects of cyclicality could significantly and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations and could limit their comparability from period to period and year over year.. The effect of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business is uncertain.. As industry practices and legal, judicial and regulatory conditions change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. Various provisions of our contracts, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, may be difficult to enforce in the manner we intend, due to, among other things, disputes relating to coverage and choice of legal forum. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond the period that we intended or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not manifest themselves until many years after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by these changes. As a result, we may not be able to ascertain the full extent of our liabilities under our insurance or reinsurance contracts for many years following the issuance of our contracts. The effects of unforeseen development or substantial government intervention could adversely impact our ability to adhere to our goals.. A downgrade or withdrawal of our A.M. Best rating would significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy successfully.. Companies, insurers and reinsurance brokers use ratings from independent ratings agencies as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of reinsurers. A.M. Best has assigned each of our reinsurance company subsidiaries a financial strength rating of A- (Excellent), which is the fourth highest of 15 ratings that A.M. Best issues. This rating reflects the rating agency's opinion of the applicable insurer's financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet obligations. It is not an evaluation directed toward the protection of investors or a recommendation to buy, sell or hold our shares. A.M. Best periodically reviews our rating, and may revise it downward or revoke it at its sole discretion based primarily on its analysis of our balance sheet strength, operating performance and business profile. Factors which may affect such an analysis include:. • if we change our business practices from our organizational business plan in a manner that no longer supports A.M. Best's initial rating;. • if unfavorable financial or market trends impact us;. • if losses exceed loss reserves;. • if we are unable to retain our senior management and other key personnel;. • if our investment portfolio incurs significant losses; or. • if A.M. Best alters its capital adequacy assessment methodology in a manner that would adversely affect the rating of  Third Point Re BDA or Third Point Re USA.. If A.M. Best downgrades the rating of either Third Point Re BDA or Third Point Re USA below A- (Excellent), places either reinsurer on credit watch or withdraws its rating, we could be severely limited or prevented from writing any new reinsurance contracts from the affected reinsurer which would significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy. A downgrade may also require us to establish trusts or post letters of credit for ceding company clients. In addition, almost all of our reinsurance contracts provide the client with the right to terminate the agreement or require us to transfer premiums on a funds withheld basis if our A- (Excellent) A.M. Best rating is downgraded.. 26. In February 2015, Third Point Re (USA) Holdings Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary, completed a public offering of $115.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.0% senior notes due 2025 (the \"Senior Notes\"). The Senior Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed (the \"Guarantee\") by Third Point Re. In certain circumstances, a downgrade of the rating assigned to the Senior Notes would result in an increase in the annual interest rate payable on the Senior Notes or, if a change of control of TPRE has also occurred, an obligation for us to make an offer to repurchase the Senior Notes at a premium. Either of these outcomes could require use of cash that we might otherwise use in operating our business. In addition, we may not have sufficient funds to satisfy these obligations, which could result in an event of default under the indenture governing the Senior Notes. See \"Inability to service our indebtedness could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and could potentially result in a downgrade or withdrawal of our credit ratings, any of which would adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy.\". A significant decrease in our capital or surplus could enable certain clients to terminate reinsurance agreements or to require additional collateral.. Certain of our reinsurance contracts contain provisions that permit our clients to cancel the contract or require additional collateral in the event of a downgrade in our ratings below specified levels or a reduction of our capital or surplus below specified levels over the course of the agreement. Whether a client would exercise such cancellation rights would likely depend, among other things, on the reason the provision is triggered, the prevailing market conditions, the degree of unexpired coverage and the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage.. If any such provisions were to become exercisable, we cannot predict whether or how many of our clients would actually exercise such rights or the extent to which such rights would have a significant and negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations or future prospects but they could have a significant adverse effect on our operations and our ability to post sufficient collateral for reinsurance obligations.. We are dependent on key executives, the loss of whom could adversely affect our business.. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the efforts of our senior management and our senior underwriting executives to implement our business strategy. We believe there are only a limited number of available and qualified executives with substantial experience in our industry. Accordingly, the loss of the services of one or more of the members of our senior management or other key personnel could delay or prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy and, consequently, significantly and negatively affect our business.. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance with respect to any of our senior management. If any member of senior management dies or becomes incapacitated, or leaves the company to pursue employment opportunities elsewhere, we would be solely responsible for locating an adequate replacement for such senior management and for bearing any related cost. To the extent that we are unable to locate an adequate replacement or are unable to do so within a reasonable period of time, our business may be significantly and negatively affected.. In addition, our business operations require the services of a number of specialized employees to carry out day-to-day business operations. There can be no assurance that we can attract and retain the necessary employees to conduct our business activities on a timely basis or at all.. Our inability to provide collateral to certain counterparties on commercially acceptable terms as we grow could significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy.. Neither Third Point Re BDA nor Third Point Re USA is licensed or admitted as a reinsurer in any jurisdiction other than Bermuda. Certain jurisdictions, including in the United States, do not permit insurance companies to take statutory credit for reinsurance obtained from unlicensed or non-admitted insurers unless appropriate security measures are implemented. Consequently, certain clients require us to obtain a letter of credit or provide other collateral through funds withheld or trust arrangements. In connection with obtaining letter of credit facilities, we are typically required to provide customary collateral to the letter of credit provider in order to secure our obligations under the facility. Our ability to provide collateral, and the costs at which we provide collateral, is primarily dependent on the composition of our investment portfolio.. 27. Typically, both letters of credit and collateral trust agreements are collateralized with cash or fixed-income securities. Banks may be willing to accept our investment portfolio as collateral, but on terms that may be less favorable to us than reinsurance companies that invest solely or predominantly in fixed-income securities.  The inability to renew, maintain or obtain letters of credit or to source acceptable collateral for letters of credit or collateral trust agreements may significantly limit the amount of reinsurance we can write or require us to modify our investment strategy.. We expect to need additional collateral capacity as we grow, and if we are unable to renew, maintain or increase our collateral capacity or are unable to do so on commercially acceptable terms, such a development could significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy.. Our ability to pay dividends may be constrained by our holding company structure and certain regulatory and other factors.. Third Point Re is a holding company that conducts no reinsurance operations of its own. The majority of our reinsurance operations are conducted through our wholly-owned operating subsidiaries, Third Point Re BDA and Third Point Re USA. Our cash flows currently consist primarily of dividends and other permissible payments from Third Point Re BDA and Third Point Re USA. Third Point Re depends on such payments to receive funds to meet its obligations, including the payment of any dividends and other distributions to our shareholders and any payment obligations in respect of its guarantee of the Senior Notes issued by TPRUSA in February 2015. See \"Inability to service our indebtedness could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and could potentially result in a downgrade or withdrawal of our credit ratings, any of which would adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy.\". In order to remain in compliance with the Net Worth Maintenance Agreement, we must have committed funds sufficient to, and must continue to, maintain a minimum level of capital at Third Point Re USA of $250.0 million. Failure to maintain the minimum level of capital required by the Net Worth Maintenance Agreement could limit or prevent Third Point Re USA from paying dividends to us.. Third Point Re is indirectly subject to Bermuda regulatory constraints placed on Third Point Re BDA and Third Point Re USA. This affects our ability to pay dividends on the shares and make other payments. Under the Insurance Act, Third Point Re BDA and Third Point Re USA, as Class 4 insurers, are prohibited from declaring or paying a dividend if the relevant insurer is in breach of its minimum solvency margin (\"MSM\"), enhanced capital ratio (\"ECR\") or minimum liquidity ratio or if the declaration or payment of such dividend would cause such a breach. Where either Third Point Re BDA or Third Point USA, as Class 4 insurers, fails to meet its MSM or minimum liquidity ratio on the last day of any financial year, they are prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends during the next financial year without the approval of the BMA.. In addition, Third Point Re BDA and Third Point Re USA, as Class 4 insurers, are prohibited from declaring or paying in any financial year dividends of more than 25% of their respective total statutory capital and surplus (as shown on its previous financial year's statutory balance sheet) unless they file (at least seven days before payment of such dividends) with the BMA an affidavit signed by at least two directors (one of whom must be a Bermuda resident director if any of the insurer's directors are resident in Bermuda) and the relevant insurer's principal representative stating that the relevant insurer will continue to meet its solvency margin and minimum liquidity ratios. Where such an affidavit is filed, it shall be available for public inspection at the offices of the BMA.. In addition, under the Bermuda Companies Act 1981, as amended (the \"Companies Act\"), Bermuda companies such as Third Point Re, Third Point Re BDA and Third Point Re USA may not declare or pay a dividend if there are reasonable grounds for believing that the relevant Bermuda company is, or would after the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities as they become due or that the realizable value of its assets would thereby be less than its liabilities.. Inability to service our indebtedness could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and could potentially result in a downgrade or withdrawal of our credit ratings, any of which would adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy.. In February 2015, Third Point Re (USA) Holdings Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary, completed a public offering of $115.0 million in aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes. The Senior Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Third Point Re.. 28. The Senior Notes are an obligation of TPRUSA, and the Guarantee is an obligation of TPRE. Each of TPRUSA and TPRE is a holding company and, accordingly, conduct substantially all operations through their respective operating subsidiaries. As a result, TPRUSA's cash flow and its ability to service its debt, as well as TPRE's ability to satisfy its obligations pursuant to the Guarantee, depend in part upon the earnings of their respective operating subsidiaries and on the distribution of earnings, loans or other payments from such subsidiaries to TPRUSA or TPRE, as applicable. See \"Risk Factors-Our ability to pay dividends may be constrained by our holding company structure and certain regulatory and other factors.\". The operating subsidiaries of TPRUSA and TPRE are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts due on the Senior Notes or the Guarantee or to provide TPRUSA or TPRE with funds for their respective payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. There can be no assurance that our operating subsidiaries will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future financing sources will be available to us in amounts sufficient to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms or at all, or to fund our other business needs. In addition to being limited by the financial condition and operating requirements of such subsidiaries, any payment of dividends, distributions, loans or advances by TPRUSA's or TPRE's subsidiaries to TPRUSA or TPRE could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions. Moreover, since certain of TPRUSA's and TPRE's respective subsidiaries are insurance companies, their ability to pay dividends to TPRUSA or TPRE, as applicable, is subject to regulatory limitations. See \"Business-Regulation.\". To the extent that either TPRUSA or TPRE needs funds but its subsidiaries are restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation, or are otherwise unable to distribute funds, the liquidity and financial condition of TPRUSA or TPRE, as applicable, would be adversely affected and we would potentially be unable to satisfy our obligations under the Senior Notes, the Guarantee or any other indebtedness. If we cannot service our indebtedness, the implementation of our business strategy would be impeded, and we could be prevented from entering into transactions that would otherwise benefit our business.. The rights of TPRUSA and TPRE to receive any assets of any of their respective subsidiaries upon liquidation or reorganization of such subsidiaries, and therefore the rights of the holders of the Senior Notes, to participate in those assets, will be structurally subordinated to the claims of such subsidiary's creditors. In addition, even if TPRUSA or TPRE were a creditor of any of their respective subsidiaries, the rights of TPRUSA or TPRE, as applicable, as a creditor would be subordinate to any security interest in the assets of such subsidiaries and any indebtedness of such subsidiaries senior to that held by it. The Senior Notes and the Guarantee would also be structurally subordinated to the rights of the holders of any preferred stock or shares issued by the subsidiaries of either TPRUSA or TPRE, as applicable, whether currently outstanding or issued hereafter. Moreover, the rights of shareholders of TPRE to receive any assets of TPRE upon liquidation or reorganization of TPRE would be subordinate to all of the foregoing claims.. Our indebtedness may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business, and may otherwise place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors.. We could in the future incur additional indebtedness in addition to the Senior Notes. The indenture governing the Senior Notes does not limit the amount of additional indebtedness we may incur. Our debt combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments could have significant adverse consequences, including:. • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to the payment of interest on, and principal of, our debt, which will reduce the amounts available to fund working capital, the expansion of our business and other general corporate purposes;. • increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and market conditions, and exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates;. • obligating us to additional restrictive covenants that may reduce our ability to take certain corporate actions or obtain further debt or equity financing;. • making it more difficult for us to make payments on our existing or future obligations;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or better debt servicing options.. 29. In addition, a failure to comply with the covenants under our debt instruments could result in an event of default under those instruments. In the event of an acceleration of amounts due under our debt instruments as a result of an event of default, we may not have sufficient funds and may be unable to arrange for additional financing to repay our indebtedness, and the lenders could seek to enforce security interests in the collateral securing such indebtedness.. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to pay the principal of or interest on the Senior Notes.. At maturity, the entire principal amount of the Senior Notes then outstanding, plus any accrued and unpaid interest, will become due and payable. TPRUSA must pay interest in cash on the Senior Notes semi-annually on February 13 and August 13 of each year. The amount of interest payable on the Senior Notes is subject to increase from time to time in the event of a downgrade of the rating assigned to the Senior Notes or in connection with certain other events. In addition, upon the occurrence of a change of control triggering event described in the indenture governing the Senior Notes, unless we have exercised our right to redeem the Senior Notes in accordance with their terms, each holder of Senior Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase all or any part of such holder's Senior Notes for a payment in cash described in the indenture governing the Senior Notes.. We may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain sufficient financing at the time we are required to make these payments. Furthermore, our ability to make these payments may be limited by law, by regulatory authority or by agreements governing future indebtedness. Our failure to pay interest when due, if uncured for 30 days, or our failure to pay the principal amount when due, will constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the Senior Notes. A default under the indenture could also lead to a default under agreements governing future indebtedness. If the repayment of that indebtedness is accelerated as a result, then we may not have sufficient funds to repay that indebtedness or to pay the principal of or interest on the Senior Notes.. We may need additional capital in the future in order to operate our business, and such capital may not be available to us or may not be available to us on acceptable terms. Furthermore, additional capital raising could dilute your ownership interest in our company and may cause the value of the shares to decline.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future through offerings of debt or equity securities or otherwise to:. • fund liquidity needs caused by underwriting or investment losses;. • replace capital lost in the event of significant reinsurance losses or adverse reserve developments;. • satisfy letters of credit, guarantee bond requirements or other capital requirements that may be imposed by our clients or by regulators;. • meet rating agency or regulatory capital requirements; or. • respond to competitive pressures.. In February 2015, we completed a public offering of $115.0 million in aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes issued by TPRUSA and guaranteed by Third Point Re. These Senior Notes are structurally senior to claims that any holders of our common shares may have on the assets of Third Point Re.. Additional capital may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Further, any additional capital raised through the sale of equity could dilute your ownership interest in our company and may cause the value of our shares to decline. Additional capital raised through the issuance of debt may result in creditors having rights, preferences and privileges senior or otherwise superior to those of the holders of our shares.. We depend on our clients' evaluations of the risks associated with their insurance underwriting, which may subject us to reinsurance losses.. In most of our quota share reinsurance business we do not separately evaluate each of the original individual risks assumed under these reinsurance contracts. We instead evaluate the underwriting processes and environment at the ceding companies we work with to assess the risks associated with their portfolios.Therefore, we are dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by ceding companies. We are subject to the risk that the clients may not have adequately evaluated the insured risks and that the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. We also do not separately evaluate each of the individual claims made on the underlying insurance contracts.. 30. Therefore, we are dependent on the original claims decisions made by our clients. We are subject to the risk that the client may pay invalid claims, which could result in reinsurance losses for us.. The involvement of reinsurance brokers subjects us to their credit risk.. In accordance with industry practice, we frequently pay amounts owed on claims under our policies to reinsurance brokers, and these brokers, in turn, remit these amounts to the ceding companies that have reinsured a portion of their liabilities with us. In some jurisdictions, if a broker fails to make such a payment, we might remain liable to the client for the deficiency notwithstanding the broker's obligation to make such payment. Conversely, in certain jurisdictions, when the client pays premiums for policies to reinsurance brokers for payment to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid and the client will no longer be liable to us for these premiums, whether or not we have actually received them. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with reinsurance brokers around the world.. The inability to obtain business provided from brokers could adversely affect our business strategy and results of operations.. We market our reinsurance worldwide primarily through reinsurance brokers. Business placed by our reinsurance brokers that each individually contributed more than 10% of total gross premiums written from inception to  December 31, 2017 were: Aon Benfield, JLT Re and Guy Carpenter & Company, LLC, which accounted for 28.5%, 21.5% and 12.8%, respectively. Affiliates of several brokers have also co-sponsored the formation of Bermuda reinsurance companies that may compete with us, and these brokers may favor their own reinsurers over other companies. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or more of these brokers could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may be unable to purchase reinsurance for the liabilities we reinsure, and if we successfully purchase such reinsurance, we may be unable to collect, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have purchased, and may continue to purchase, retrocessional coverage in order to mitigate the effect of a potential concentration of losses upon our financial condition. The insolvency or inability or refusal of a reinsurer to make payments under the terms of its agreement with us could have an adverse effect on us because we remain liable to our client. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases have prevented, reinsurers from obtaining the types and amounts of retrocession that they consider adequate for their business needs. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain our desired amounts of retrocessional coverage or negotiate terms that we deem appropriate or acceptable or obtain retrocession from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness. Our failure to establish adequate retrocessional arrangements or the failure of our retrocessional arrangements to protect us from overly concentrated risk exposure could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face risks arising from future strategic transactions such as acquisitions, dispositions, mergers or joint ventures.. We may pursue strategic transactions in the future, which could involve acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets. Any future strategic transactions could have an adverse impact on our reputation, business, results of operation or financial condition. We face a number of risks arising from these types of transaction, including financial, accounting, tax and regulatory challenges; difficulties with integration, business retention, execution of strategy, unforeseen liabilities or market conditions; and other managerial or operating risks and challenges. Any future transactions could also subject us to risks such as failure to obtain appropriate value, post-closing claims being levied against us and disruption to our other businesses during the negotiation or execution process or thereafter. Accordingly, these risks and difficulties may prevent us from realizing the expected benefits from the strategic transactions we enter into. For example, the businesses that we acquire or our strategic alliances or joint ventures may underperform relative to the price paid or resources committed by us; we may not achieve anticipated cost savings; or we may otherwise be adversely affected by transaction-related charges.. Through our strategic transactions, we may also assume unknown or undisclosed business, operational, tax, regulatory and other liabilities, fail to properly assess known contingent liabilities, or assume businesses with internal control deficiencies. Risk-mitigating provisions that we put in place in the course of negotiating and executing these transactions,. 31. such as due diligence efforts and indemnification provisions, may not be sufficient to fully address these liabilities and contingencies.. Technology breaches or failures, including those resulting from a malicious cyber-attack on us or our business partners and service providers, could disrupt or otherwise negatively impact our business.. We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, store and protect the electronic information, financial data and proprietary models that are critical to our business. Furthermore, a significant portion of the communications between our employees and our business, banking and investment partners depends on information technology and electronic information exchange. We have licensed certain systems and data from third parties. We cannot be certain that we will have access to these, or comparable systems, or that our technology or applications will continue to operate as intended. In addition, we cannot be certain that we would be able to replace these systems without slowing our underwriting response time. Like all companies, our information technology systems are vulnerable to data breaches, interruptions or failures due to events that may be beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, theft, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, hackers and general technology failures.. We believe that we have established and implemented appropriate security measures, controls and procedures to safeguard our information technology systems and to prevent unauthorized access to such systems and any data processed or stored in such systems, and we periodically evaluate and test the adequacy of such systems, controls and procedures. In addition, we have established a business continuity plan which is designed to ensure that we are able to maintain all aspects of our key business processes functioning in the midst of certain disruptive events, including any disruptions to or breaches of our information technology systems. Our business continuity plan is routinely tested and evaluated for adequacy. Despite these safeguards, disruptions to and breaches of our information technology systems are possible and may negatively impact our business.. It is possible that insurance policies we have in place with third parties would not entirely protect us in the event that we experienced a breach, interruption or widespread failure of our information technology systems. Furthermore, we have not secured insurance coverage designed to specifically protect us from an economic loss resulting from such events.. Although we have never experienced any known or threatened cases involving unauthorized access to our information technology systems or unauthorized appropriation of the data contained within such systems, we have no assurance that such technology breaches will not occur in the future.. Risks Relating to Our Investment Strategy and Investment Manager. We have limited control over how our investment portfolio is allocated, and its performance depends on the ability of our investment manager, Third Point LLC, to select and manage appropriate investments.. We have engaged Third Point LLC to act as our exclusive investment manager for substantially all of our investment portfolio and to recommend appropriate investment opportunities. Although Third Point LLC is contractually obligated to follow our investment guidelines, we cannot assure shareholders as to exactly how assets will be allocated to different investment opportunities, including long and short positions and derivatives trading, which could increase the level of risk in our investment.. The performance of our investment portfolio depends to a great extent on the ability of Third Point LLC, as our investment manager to select and manage appropriate investments. We have entered into two investment management agreements with Third Point LLC, which terminate on December 22, 2021 and are subject to automatic renewal for additional successive three-year terms unless a party notifies the other parties at least six months prior to the end of a term that it wishes to terminate the investment management agreement at the end of such term. We have limited ability to terminate the investment management agreements earlier. We cannot assure you that Third Point LLC will be successful in meeting our investment objectives. The failure of Third Point LLC to perform adequately could significantly and negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 32. The historical performance of Third Point LLC should not be considered as indicative of the future results of our investment portfolio or of our future results or of any returns expected on our common shares.. The historical returns of the funds managed by Third Point LLC are not directly linked to returns on our common shares. Although as our investment manager, Third Point LLC has agreed to invest our portfolio on substantially the same basis as Third Point LLC's hedge funds, results for our investment portfolio could differ from results of the funds managed by Third Point LLC as a result of restrictions imposed by our investment guidelines. In addition, even if our investment portfolio generates investment income in a given period, our overall performance could be adversely affected by losses generated by our reinsurance operations or public market dynamics. Poor performance of our investment portfolio will cause a decline in our revenue from that portfolio and will therefore have a negative effect on our financial performance.. Moreover, with respect to the historical performance of funds or accounts managed by Third Point LLC, including our investment portfolio:. • the historical performance of funds managed by Third Point LLC should not be considered indicative of the future results that should be expected from our investment portfolio; and. • the returns of funds managed by Third Point LLC have benefited historically from investment opportunities and general market conditions that currently may not exist and may not repeat themselves, and there can be no assurance that Third Point LLC will be able to avail itself of profitable investment opportunities in the future.. The risks associated with Third Point LLC's strategy in managing our investment portfolio may be substantially greater than the investment risks faced by other reinsurers with whom we compete.. We may derive a significant portion of our income from our investment portfolio. As a result, our operating results depend in part on the performance of our investment portfolio. We cannot assure you that Third Point LLC, as our investment manager, will successfully structure our investments in relation to our anticipated liabilities. Failure to do so could force us to liquidate investments at a significant loss or at prices that are not optimal, which could significantly and adversely affect our financial results.. The risks associated with Third Point LLC's investment strategy may be substantially greater than the risks associated with traditional fixed-income investment strategies employed by many reinsurers with whom we compete. Third Point LLC makes investments globally, in both developed and emerging markets, in all sectors, and in equity, credit, commodity, currency, option and other instruments. Third Point LLC is opportunistic and often seeks  a catalyst, either intrinsic or extrinsic, that will unlock value or alter the lens through which the greater market values a particular investment. Making long equity investments in an up or rising market may increase the risk of not generating profits on these investments and we may incur losses if the market declines. Similarly, making short equity investments in a down or falling market may increase the risk of not generating profits on these investments and we may incur losses if the market rises. Short sales involve unlimited loss potential since the market price of securities sold short may continuously increase. If the market price of the subject security increases considerably, Third Point LLC might have to cover short sales at suboptimal prices. As of December 31, 2017, short exposure in our consolidated investment portfolio was $783.9 million consisting of 52 debt, equity and index positions, including $692.0 million over 41 positions in the equity portfolio.. The market price of our common shares may be volatile and the risk of loss may be greater when compared with other reinsurance companies.. Although we conduct our business through our Class 4 Bermuda licensed insurance subsidiaries as operating reinsurance businesses actively engaged in writing property and casualty coverage, because our investment portfolio as managed by Third Point LLC may include a very small number of futures, options on futures, swaps and other commodity interests from time to time, we are exposed to the risk that the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the \"CFTC\") could assert that our business has been operated for the purpose of trading commodity interests and that we are, therefore, a commodity pool. If this were to occur, our investment strategy and our business could be disrupted as we would be required to have a registered commodity pool operator in order to continue to include investments in commodity interests in our investment portfolio. Registered commodity pool operators are subject to disclosure,. 33. reporting and record keeping requirements with respect to the pools they operate. In addition, if it were established that we were a commodity pool, the CFTC could pursue remedies against the party or parties it deems to be the commodity pool operator, and we could under certain circumstances be required to indemnify those individuals or entities.. The termination by Third Point LLC of either our investment management agreements at the end of its term or any successive term could materially adversely affect our investment results.. We depend upon Third Point LLC, our investment manager, to implement our investment strategy. The investment management agreements, each of which terminates on December 22, 2021, are subject to automatic renewal for additional successive three-year terms unless a party notifies the other parties at least six months prior to the end of a term that it wishes to terminate either investment management agreement in question at the end of such term. If Third Point LLC chooses to terminate either investment management agreement at the end of such term, there is no assurance that we could find a suitable replacement, and if we were to find a replacement, there is no guarantee that any such replacement would provide us with comparable or better investment results.. Potential conflicts of interest with Third Point LLC may exist that could adversely affect us.. Neither Third Point LLC nor its principals, including Daniel S. Loeb, who is one of our shareholders, are obligated to devote any specific amount of time to our affairs. Affiliates of Third Point LLC manage, and expect to continue to manage, other client accounts, some of which have objectives similar to ours, including collective investment vehicles managed by Third Point LLC's affiliates and in which Third Point LLC or its affiliates may have an equity interest. Pursuant to our investment management agreements with Third Point LLC, Third Point LLC has the exclusive right to manage our investment portfolio and is required to follow our investment guidelines and act in a manner that is fair and equitable in allocating investment opportunities to us, but the agreements do not otherwise impose any specific obligations or requirements concerning allocation of time, effort or investment opportunities to us or any restriction on the nature or timing of investments for our account and for Third Point LLC's own account or other accounts that Third Point LLC or its affiliates may manage. Third Point LLC's interest and the interests of its affiliates, may at times conflict, possibly to Third Point LLC's detriment, which may potentially adversely affect our investment opportunities and returns.. Our investment portfolio may contain significant positions, which could result in large losses.. Our investment guidelines provide that as our investment manager, Third Point LLC may commit up to 15% of our assets under management to any one investment. Our investment portfolio could be subject to significant losses if it holds a relatively large position in a single issuer, industry, market or a particular type of investment that declines in value, and the losses could increase even further if the investments cannot be liquidated without adverse market reaction or are otherwise adversely affected by changes in market conditions or circumstances. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the net exposure of our consolidated portfolio was 93% and 77%, respectively, and the largest ten long and short positions comprised an aggregate of 54% and 15% and 43% and 21%, respectively, of our consolidated investment portfolio. Since our investment portfolio may not be widely diversified at times, it may be subject to more rapid changes in value than would be the case if the investment portfolio were required to maintain a wide diversification among companies, securities and types of securities.. We are exposed to credit risk from the possibility that counterparties may default on their obligations.. To the extent that transactions in our investment portfolio are entered into directly and not through a broker or clearinghouse, including, but not limited to, forward foreign currency transactions, swap transactions, and the purchase and sale of bonds and other fixed income securities directly from the current holder thereof, we must rely on the creditworthiness of the counterparty to the extent it is unable to immediately deliver the promised asset or cash flows in the case of cash settled transactions, net of any collateral that has been posted by or to the counterparty. The bankruptcy or insolvency of these counterparties could also result in a loss of any collateral posted against these transactions.. In addition, any prime broker or custodian through whom transactions are effected in our investment portfolio will each have a lien over assets held in a margin account with such counterparty. Further, should a prime broker or custodian become insolvent, those assets may become unavailable for redemption and potentially classified as belonging to the defaulting party. The insolvency of any such prime broker or custodian could result in the loss of a substantial portion. 34. or all of the assets held with such counterparty. Assets which are deposited with brokers as collateral against margin loss may become available to the creditors of the brokers in the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of the broker to the extent that it is needed to satisfy obligations to the insolvent party. Any reduction in our assets as a result of a default by a prime broker could negatively affect the net asset value of our investment portfolio.. If Third Point LLC's risk management systems are ineffective, we may be exposed to material unanticipated losses.. Third Point LLC continually refines its risk management techniques, strategies and assessment methods. However, its risk management techniques and strategies do not fully mitigate the risk exposure of its funds and managed accounts, including our investment portfolio, in all economic or market environments, or against all types of risk, including risks that they might fail to identify or anticipate. Some of Third Point LLC's strategies for managing risk are based upon its use of historical market behavior statistics. Any failures in Third Point LLC's risk management techniques and strategies to accurately quantify such risk exposure could limit the risk-adjusted returns of our investment portfolio. In addition, any risk management failures could cause losses in the portfolios managed by Third Point LLC, including our managed accounts, to be significantly greater than the historical measures predict. Third Point LLC's approach to managing those risks could prove insufficient, exposing us to material unanticipated losses in our investment portfolio.. In managing our investment portfolio, Third Point LLC may trade on margin and use other forms of financial leverage, which could potentially adversely affect our revenues.. Our investment guidelines provide Third Point LLC with the ability to trade on margin and use other forms of financial leverage. Fluctuations in the market value of our investment portfolio could have a disproportionately large effect in relation to our capital. As of December 31, 2017, our investment account had $1,053.0 million of margin debt at its brokers primarily related to borrowings to fund collateral arrangements.  A common metric used to determine financial leverage for accounts such as our investment portfolio is the \"gross exposure\" of our managed accounts. The \"gross exposure\" is shown as a percentage of the Net Asset Value (\"NAV\") of the account, and represents the market exposure in the account (long and short) versus the NAV. In other words, if the NAV of an account is $100, and the account holds securities \"long\" with an aggregate market exposure of $100 (100% long), and has sold short securities with an aggregate market exposure of $25 (25% short), then the gross exposure would be 125% (i.e., $125 of investments against $100 of NAV). As of December 31, 2017, the gross exposure of our consolidated investment portfolio was 155%. Any event that may adversely affect the value of positions we hold could significantly and negatively affect the net asset value of our investment portfolio and thus our results of operations.. Third Point LLC's representatives' service on boards and committees may place trading restrictions on our investments.. Third Point LLC may from time to time place its or its affiliates' representatives on creditors' committees or boards of certain companies in which our portfolio is invested. While such representation may enable Third Point LLC to enhance the sale value of our investments, it may also place trading restrictions on our investments.. As of the date hereof, representatives of Third Point LLC sat on the board of directors of Baxter International Inc., Hellenic Bank PLC and Sotheby's, whose securities are publicly traded and included in our investment portfolio.. Our investment management agreements have limited termination provisions.. Our investment management agreements with Third Point LLC have limited termination provisions that restrict our ability to manage our investment portfolio outside of Third Point LLC. Because the investment management agreements contain exclusivity and limited termination provisions, we are unable to use investment managers other than Third Point LLC for so long as the agreement is in effect. The amended and restated investment management agreements were entered into in June 2016 and became effective on December 22, 2016 each with an initial term of five years, subject to automatic renewal for additional successive three-year terms unless a party notifies the other parties at least six months prior to the end of a term that it wishes to terminate the investment management agreement at the end of such term. We may also terminate either investment management agreement upon the death, long-term disability or retirement of Daniel S. Loeb, or the occurrence of other circumstances in which Mr. Loeb is no longer directing the investment program of Third Point LLC.. 35. We may also withdraw as participants under either investment management agreement prior to the expiration of the relevant investment management agreement's term at any time only \"for cause\", which is defined as:. • a material violation of applicable law relating to Third Point LLC's advisory business;. • Third Point LLC's fraud, gross negligence, willful misconduct or reckless disregard of its obligations under the relevant investment management agreement;. • a material breach by Third Point LLC of our investment guidelines that is not cured within a 15-day period;. • a conviction or, a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to a felony or a crime affecting the asset management business of Third Point LLC by certain senior officers of Third Point LLC;. • any act of fraud, material misappropriation, material dishonesty, embezzlement, or similar conduct against or involving us by senior officers of Third Point LLC; or. • a formal administrative or other legal proceeding before the SEC, the CFTC, FINRA, or any other U.S. or non-U.S. regulatory or self-regulatory organization against Third Point LLC or certain key personnel which would likely have a material adverse effect on us.. In addition, we may withdraw as a participant under either investment management agreement prior to the expiration of its term if our portfolio underperforms as measured against specified benchmarks.. We may not withdraw or terminate either investment management agreement on the basis of performance other than as provided above. If we become dissatisfied with the results of the investment performance of Third Point LLC as our investment manager but the contractually specified termination threshold has not been met, we will be unable to hire new investment managers until the relevant investment management agreement expires by its terms or is terminated for cause.. Certain of our investments may have limited liquidity and lack valuation data, which could create a conflict of interest.. Our investment guidelines provide Third Point LLC, as our investment manager, with the flexibility to invest in certain securities with limited liquidity or no public market. This lack of liquidity may adversely affect the ability of Third Point LLC to execute trade orders at desired prices. To the extent that Third Point LLC invests our investable assets in securities or instruments for which market quotations or other independent pricing sources are not readily available, under the terms of the investment management agreements the valuation of such securities and instruments for purposes of compensation to Third Point LLC will be determined by Third Point LLC, whose determination, subject to audit verification, will be conclusive and binding in the absence of bad faith or manifest error. Because the investment management agreements give Third Point LLC the power to determine the value of securities with no readily discernible market value, and because the calculation of Third Point LLC's fee is based on the value of the investment account, a conflict of interest may exist or arise.. U.S. and global economic downturns could harm the performance of our investment portfolio, our liquidity and financial condition and our share price.. Volatility in the United States and other securities markets may adversely affect our investment portfolio. The ability of Third Point LLC to manage our investment portfolio profitably is dependent upon conditions in the global financial markets and economic and geopolitical conditions throughout the world that are outside of our control and difficult to predict. Factors such as equity prices, equity market volatility, asset or market correlations, interest rates, counterparty risks, availability of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, changes in laws or regulation (including laws relating to the financial markets generally or the taxation or regulation of the hedge fund industry), trade barriers, commodity prices, interest rates, currency exchange rates and controls, and national and international political circumstances (including governmental instability, wars, terrorist acts or security operations) can have a material impact on the value of our investment portfolio.. If Third Point LLC, as our investment manager, fails to react appropriately to difficult market, economic and geopolitical conditions, our investment portfolio could incur material losses.. 36. Third Point LLC's use of hedging and derivative transactions in executing trades for our account may not be successful, which could materially adversely affect our investment results.. In managing our investment portfolio, Third Point LLC may use various financial instruments both for investment purposes and for risk management purposes in order to protect against possible changes in the market value of our investment portfolio resulting from fluctuations in the securities markets and changes in interest rates, protect unrealized gains in the value of our investment portfolio, facilitate the sale of any such investments, enhance or preserve returns, spreads or gains on any investment in our investment portfolio, hedge the interest rate or currency exchange rate on certain liabilities or assets, protect against any increase in the price of any securities Third Point LLC anticipates purchasing for our account at a later date or for any other reason that Third Point LLC, as our investment manager, deems appropriate. The success of such hedging strategy will be subject to Third Point LLC's ability to correctly assess the degree of correlation between the performance of the instruments used in the hedging strategy and the performance of the investments in the portfolio being hedged. Since the characteristics of many securities change as markets change or time passes, the success of such hedging strategy will also be subject to Third Point LLC's ability to continually recalculate, readjust and execute hedges in an efficient and timely manner. While Third Point LLC may enter into hedging transactions for our account to seek to reduce risk, such transactions may result in a poorer overall performance for our investment portfolio than if it had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. For a variety of reasons, in managing our investment portfolio Third Point LLC may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent Third Point LLC from achieving the intended hedge or expose our investment portfolio to risk of loss.. Our investment portfolio may from time to time include investments in mortgage-backed securities and other asset-backed securities, whose investment characteristics differ from corporate debt securities.. Our investment portfolio may from time to time be invested in mortgage-backed securities and other asset-backed securities, including securitization of marketplace loans, whose investment characteristics differ from corporate debt securities. As of December 31, 2017, the fair value of asset-backed securities in our consolidated investment portfolio was $225.5 million. Among the major differences are that interest and principal payments are made more frequently, usually monthly, and that principal may be prepaid at any time because the underlying mortgage loans or other assets generally may be prepaid at any time. Mortgage-backed securities and asset-backed securities may also be subject to call risk and extension risk. For example, because homeowners have the option to prepay their mortgages, the duration of a security backed by home mortgages can either shorten or lengthen.. In general, if interest rates on new mortgage loans fall sufficiently below the interest rates on existing outstanding mortgage loans, the rate of prepayment would be expected to increase. Conversely, if mortgage loan interest rates rise above the interest rates on existing outstanding mortgage loans, the rate of prepayment would be expected to decrease. In either case, a change in the prepayment rate can result in losses to investors. If our investment portfolio includes securities that are subordinated to other interests in the same mortgage pool, we may only receive payments after the pool's obligations to other investors have been satisfied. In addition, our investment portfolio may, from time to time, be invested in structures commonly known as \"Re-REMICS,\" in which case a trust is further split between a senior tranche and a junior tranche. Third Point LLC usually buys the junior tranche for its funds and the accounts it manages in such circumstances. An unexpectedly high rate of default on mortgages held by a mortgage pool may limit substantially the pool's ability to make payments to holders of such securities, reducing the value of those securities or rendering them worthless. The risk of such defaults is generally higher in the case of mortgage pools that include \"sub-prime\" mortgages. Changes in laws and other regulatory developments relating to mortgage loans may impact the investments of our portfolio in mortgage-backed securities in the future.. Our investment portfolio may include investments in securities of issuers based outside the United States, including emerging markets, which may be riskier than securities of U.S. issuers.. Under our investment guidelines, Third Point LLC may invest in securities of issuers organized or based outside the United States that may involve heightened risks in comparison to the risks of investing in domestic securities, including unfavorable changes in currency rates and exchange control regulations, reduced and less reliable information about issuers and markets, less stringent accounting standards, illiquidity of securities and markets, higher brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and custody fees, local economic or political instability and greater market risk in general.. 37. In particular, investing in securities of issuers located in emerging market countries involves additional risks, such as exposure to economic structures that are generally less diverse and mature than, and to political systems that can be expected to have less stability than, those of developed countries. Other characteristics of emerging market countries that may affect investment in their markets include certain national policies that may restrict investment by foreigners in issuers or industries deemed sensitive to relevant national interests and the absence of developed legal structures governing private and foreign investments and private property. The typically small size of the markets for securities of issuers located in emerging markets and the possibility of a low or nonexistent volume of trading in those securities may also result in a lack of liquidity and in price volatility of those securities. In addition, dividend and interest payments from and capital gains in respect of certain foreign securities may be subject to foreign taxes that may or may not be reclaimable. Finally, many transactions in these markets are executed as a \"total return swap\" or other derivative transaction with a financial institution counterparty, and as a result our investment portfolio has counterparty credit risk with respect to such counterparty.. Third Point LLC's role as an engaged investor in special situation and distressed investments may subject us, Third Point Re BDA or Third Point Re USA to increased risks including the incurrence of additional legal or other expenses.. As our investment manager, Third Point LLC may invest a portion of our investment portfolio in special situation companies. This generally involves investments in securities of companies in event-driven special situations such as acquisitions, tender offers, bankruptcies, recapitalizations, spinoffs, corporate and financial restructurings, litigation or other liability impairments, turnarounds, management changes, consolidating industries and other catalyst-oriented situations. Third Point LLC may also invest our portfolio in securities of issuers in weak financial condition, experiencing poor operating results, having substantial financial needs or negative net worth or facing special competitive or product obsolescence issues or that are involved in bankruptcy reorganization proceedings, liquidation or other corporate restructuring. Investments of this type involve substantial financial business risks that can result in substantial or total losses. Among the problems involved in assessing and making investments in troubled issuers is the fact that it frequently may be difficult to obtain information as to the condition of such issuer. The market prices of the securities of such issuers are also subject to abrupt and erratic market movements and above average price volatility and the spread between the bid and asked prices of such securities may be greater than normally expected. It may take a number of years for the market prices of such securities to reflect their intrinsic values, if at all. It is anticipated that some of such securities may not be widely traded, and that a position in such securities may be substantial in relation to the market for such securities.. As a consequence of Third Point LLC's role as an engaged investor in special situation and distressed investments, our investment portfolio may be subject to increased risk of incurring additional legal, indemnification or other expenses, even if we are not named in any action. In distressed or special situations litigation often follows when disgruntled shareholders, creditors, and other parties seek to recover losses from poorly performing investments. The enhanced litigation risk for distressed companies is further elevated by the potential that Third Point LLC may have controlling or influential positions in the companies. Some of the claims that can be asserted against Third Point LLC as a distressed investor include: aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty; equitable subordination of the investor's claims; recharacterization of the investor's claims; and preference or fraudulent transfer claims. Third Point LLC's use of short-selling for its funds and the accounts it manages has subjected, and may continue to subject Third Point LLC and the short sellers to increased risk of litigation. Lawsuits can be brought against short sellers of a company's stock to discourage short selling. Among other claims, these suits may allege libel, conspiracy, and market manipulation.. Third Point LLC's diminution or loss of service or loss of key employees could materially adversely affect our investment results.. We depend upon Third Point LLC, as our investment manager, to implement our investment strategy. All investment decisions with respect to our investment portfolio are made by Third Point LLC, subject to our investment guidelines, under the general supervision of Daniel S. Loeb. As a result, the success of our investment strategy depends largely upon the abilities of Mr. Loeb. While we may terminate our investment management agreements with Third Point LLC upon the death, long-term disability or retirement of Mr. Loeb, or the occurrence of other circumstances in which Mr. Loeb is no longer directing the investment program of Third Point LLC, no assurance can be given that a suitable replacement could be found.. 38. The compensation arrangements of Third Point LLC, as our investment manager, may create an incentive to effect transactions that are risky or speculative.. Our investment management agreements each provide for the following two forms of compensation to be paid to Third Point LLC and TP GP:. • Third Point LLC is entitled to a management fee of 1.5% annually, charged monthly, based on net assets under management; and. • TP GP is entitled to performance compensation based on the appreciation, including unrealized appreciation, in the value of our investment portfolio equal to 20% of net profits, subject to a loss carryforward provision.. While the performance compensation arrangement provides that losses will be carried forward as an offset against net profits in subsequent periods, Third Point LLC generally will not otherwise be penalized for realized losses or decreases in the value of our portfolio. These performance compensation arrangements may create an incentive for Third Point LLC as our investment manager to engage in transactions that focus on the potential for short-term gains rather than long-term growth or that are particularly risky or speculative.. Increased regulation or scrutiny of alternative investment advisers and certain trading methods such as short selling may affect Third Point LLC's ability to manage our investment portfolio or affect our business reputation.. The regulatory environment for investment managers is evolving, and changes in the regulation of managers may adversely affect the ability of Third Point LLC to effect transactions in our investment portfolio that utilize leverage or to pursue its trading strategies in managing our investment portfolio.Third Point LLC is regularly involved in trading activities that involve a number of U.S. and foreign securities law regimes. Violations of any such law could result in severe restrictions on Third Point LLC's activities and, indirectly, do damage to our investment portfolio or reputation. In addition, the securities and futures markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and margin requirements. The SEC, other regulators and self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies. The regulation of derivatives transactions and funds that engage in such transactions is an evolving area of law and is subject to modification by government and judicial action. Any future regulatory change could have a significant negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, a number of states and municipal pension plans have adopted so-called \"pay-to-play\" laws, regulations or policies that prohibit, restrict or require disclosure of payments to (and/or certain contacts with) state officials by individuals and entities seeking to do business with state entities, including investments by public retirement funds. The SEC also has adopted rules that, among other things, prohibit an investment adviser from providing advisory services for compensation to a government client for a period of up to two years after the adviser or certain of its executives or employees make a contribution to certain elected officials or candidates. If Third Point LLC, its employees or affiliates or any service providers acting on their behalf, including, without limitation, a placement agent, fail to comply with such pay-to-play laws, regulations or policies, such non-compliance could have an adverse effect on Third Point LLC and our investment portfolio.. As our investment manager, Third Point LLC routinely engages in short selling for our account in managing our investments. Short sale transactions have been subject to increased regulatory scrutiny, including the imposition of restrictions on short selling certain securities and reporting requirements. Third Point LLC's ability to execute a short selling strategy in managing our investment portfolio may be materially and adversely impacted by temporary or new permanent rules, interpretations, prohibitions, and restrictions adopted in response to these adverse market events. Temporary restrictions or prohibitions on short selling activity may be imposed by regulatory authorities with little or no advance notice and may impact prior and future trading activities of our investment portfolio. Additionally, the SEC, its non-U.S. counterparts, other governmental authorities or self-regulatory organizations may at any time promulgate permanent rules or interpretations consistent with such temporary restrictions or that impose additional or different permanent or temporary limitations or prohibitions. The SEC might impose different limitations or prohibitions on short selling from those imposed by various non-U.S. regulatory authorities. These different regulations, rules or interpretations might have different effective periods.. 39. Regulatory authorities may, from time to time, impose restrictions that adversely affect our ability to borrow certain securities in connection with short sale transactions. In addition, traditional lenders of securities may be less likely to lend securities under certain market conditions. As a result, Third Point LLC may not be able to effectively pursue a short selling strategy due to a limited supply of securities available for borrowing. We may also incur additional costs in connection with short sale transactions effected in our investment portfolio, including in the event that Third Point LLC is required to enter into a borrowing arrangement for our account in advance of any short sales. Moreover, the ability to continue to borrow a security is not guaranteed and our account will be subject to strict delivery requirements. The inability to deliver securities within the required time frame may subject us to mandatory close out by the executing broker-dealer. A mandatory close out may subject us to unintended costs and losses. Certain action or inaction by third parties, such as executing broker-dealers or clearing broker-dealers, may materially impact our ability to effect short sale transactions in our investment portfolio.. An increase in Third Point LLC's assets under management may adversely affect the returns of our investment portfolio.. It is possible that if the amount of assets Third Point LLC manages for us, in its funds and for other accounts it manages were to increase materially, it could be more difficult for Third Point LLC to invest profitably for those accounts because of the difficulty of trading larger positions without adversely affecting prices and managing risks associated with larger positions. In addition, there can be no assurance that there will be appropriate investment opportunities to accommodate future increase in assets under management, which may force Third Point LLC to modify its investment decisions for the accounts it manages because it cannot deploy all the assets in a manner it desires. Furthermore, due to the overlap of strategies and investments across many of the portfolios managed by Third Point LLC, including its hedge funds, the accounts may be adversely affected in the event of rapid or large liquidations of investment positions held by the accounts due to a lack of liquidity resulting from large position sizes in the same investments held by the other accounts.. Risks Relating to Insurance and Other Regulations. Any suspension or revocation of our subsidiaries' reinsurance licenses would materially impact our ability to do business and implement our business strategy.. Our subsidiaries Third Point Re BDA and Third Point Re USA are licensed as reinsurers only in Bermuda and we do not plan to seek licenses in any other jurisdiction. The suspension or revocation of Third Point Re BDA or Third Point Re USA's license to do business as a reinsurance company in Bermuda for any reason would mean that we would not be able to enter into any new reinsurance contracts until the suspension ended or Third Point Re BDA or Third Point Re USA became licensed in another jurisdiction. Any such suspension or revocation of our license would negatively impact our reputation in the reinsurance marketplace and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. If we become subject to insurance statutes and regulations in jurisdictions other than Bermuda or there is a change to Bermuda law or regulations or application of Bermuda law or regulations, there could be a significant and negative impact on our business.. Third Point Re BDA and Third Point Re USA, our wholly owned operating subsidiaries, are registered Bermuda Class 4 insurers.  As such, they are subject to regulation and supervision in Bermuda. Bermuda insurance statutes, regulations and policies of the BMA require each of Third Point Re BDA and Third Point Re USA, among other things, to:. • maintain a minimum level of capital, surplus and liquidity;. • satisfy solvency standards;. • restrict the payment of dividends and distributions;. • deliver notification to the BMA of changes in ownership of our common shares beyond and between certain thresholds specified in the Insurance Act;. • maintain a principal office and appoint and maintain a principal representative in Bermuda; and. • provide for the performance of certain periodic examinations of Third Point Re BDA and Third Point Re USA and their financial condition.. 40. These statutes and regulations may, in effect, restrict our ability to write reinsurance policies, to distribute funds and to pursue our investment strategy.. The process of obtaining licenses is very time consuming and costly, and we may not be able to become licensed in a jurisdiction other than Bermuda even in the event we choose to do so. The modification of the conduct of our business resulting from our becoming licensed in certain jurisdictions could significantly and negatively affect our business. In addition, our inability to comply with insurance statutes and regulations of any particular jurisdiction could significantly and adversely affect our business by limiting our ability to conduct business in that jurisdiction and by subjecting us to penalties and fines.. In addition, the BMA could revoke or suspend Third Point Re BDA or Third Point Re USA's license in certain circumstances, including circumstances in which (i) it is shown that false, misleading or inaccurate information has been supplied to the BMA by Third Point Re BDA or Third Point Re USA or on their behalf for the purposes of any provision of the Insurance Act; (ii) Third Point Re BDA and Third Point Re USA has ceased to carry on business; (iii) Third Point Re BDA or Third Point Re USA has persistently failed to pay fees due under the Insurance Act; (iv) Third Point Re BDA or Third Point Re USA has been shown to have not complied with a condition attached to its registration or with a requirement made of them under the Insurance Act or any related regulations and insurance accounting rules; (v) we are convicted of an offence against a provision of the Insurance Act or related regulations; (vi) Third Point Re BDA or Third Point Re USA is, in the opinion of the BMA, found not to have been carrying on business in accordance with sound insurance principles; or (vii) if any of the minimum criteria for registration under the Insurance Act is not or will not have been fulfilled. If the BMA were to suspend or revoke Third Point Re BDA or Third Point Re USA's licenses we could lose our exception under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the \"Investment Company Act\". See \"We are subject to the risk of becoming an investment company under U.S. federal securities law.\". We are subject to the risk of becoming an investment company under U.S. federal securities law.. The Investment Company Act, regulates certain companies that invest in or trade securities. We rely on an exception under the Investment Company Act that is available to a company organized and regulated as a foreign insurance company which is engaged primarily and predominantly in the reinsurance of risks on insurance agreements. The law in this area has not been well developed and there is a lack of guidance as to the meaning of \"primarily and predominantly\" under the relevant exception under the Investment Company Act. For example, there is no standard for the amount of premiums that need be written relative to the level of a company's capital in order to qualify for the exception. If this exception were deemed inapplicable to us, we would have to seek to register under the Investment Company Act as an investment company, which, under the Investment Company Act, would require an order from the SEC. Our inability to obtain such an order could have a significant adverse impact on our business.. Assuming that we were permitted to register as an investment company, registered investment companies are subject to extensive, restrictive and potentially adverse regulation relating to, among other things, operating methods, management, capital structure, our ability to raise additional debt and equity securities or issue stock options or warrants (which could impact our ability to compensate key employees), financial leverage, dividends, board of director composition and transactions with affiliates. Accordingly, if we were required to register as an investment company we would not be able to operate our business as it is currently conducted, nor would we be permitted to have many of the relationships that we have with our affiliated companies. Accordingly, we likely would not be permitted to engage Third Point LLC as our investment manager, unless we obtained the board and shareholder approvals required under the Investment Company Act. If Third Point LLC were not our investment manager, we would potentially be required to liquidate our investment portfolio and we would seek to identify and retain another investment manager with a similar investment philosophy. If we could not identify or retain such an advisor, we would be required to make substantial modifications to our investment strategy. Any such changes to our investment strategy could significantly and negatively impact our investment results, financial condition and our ability to implement our business strategy.. If at any time it were established that we had been operating as an investment company in violation of the Investment Company Act, there would be a risk, among other material adverse consequences, that we could become subject to monetary penalties or injunctive relief, or both, that we could be unable to enforce contracts with third parties or that third parties could seek to obtain rescission of transactions undertaken during the period in which it was established. 41. that we were an unregistered investment company. If, subsequently, we were not permitted or were unable to register as an investment company, it is likely that we would be forced to cease operations.. To the extent that the laws and regulations change in the future so that contracts we write are deemed not to be reinsurance contracts, we will be at greater risk of not qualifying for the Investment Company Act exception. Additionally, it is possible that our classification as an investment company would result in the suspension or revocation of our reinsurance license.. Insurance regulators in the United States or elsewhere may review our activities and claim that we are subject to additional licensing requirements.. We do not presently expect that we will be admitted to do business in any jurisdiction other than Bermuda. In general, Bermuda insurance statutes, regulations and the policies of the BMA are less restrictive than United States state insurance statutes and regulations. We conduct business in the United States through our indirect subsidiary, Third Point Re USA. We do not believe that our U.S.-based operations subject us to licensing requirements in any state in which we operate. However, we  cannot assure you that insurance regulators in the United States or elsewhere will not review our activities and claim that we are subject to such jurisdiction's licensing requirements. In addition, we will be subject to indirect regulatory requirements imposed by jurisdictions that may limit our ability to provide reinsurance. For example, our ability to write reinsurance may be subject, in certain cases, to arrangements satisfactory to applicable regulatory bodies and proposed legislation and regulations may have the effect of imposing additional requirements upon, or restricting the market for, non-U.S. reinsurers such as us.. If in the future we were to become subject to regulation under the laws of any state in the United States or the laws of the United States or of any other country, we may consider various alternatives to our operations. If we attempt to become licensed in another jurisdiction, for instance, we may not be able to do so and the modification of the conduct of our business or the non-compliance with insurance statutes and regulations could significantly and negatively affect our business.. Our reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements, and our failure to meet these requirements could subject us to regulatory action.. In 2008, the BMA introduced risk-based capital standards for insurance companies as a tool to assist the BMA both in measuring risk and in determining appropriate levels of capitalization. The amended Bermuda insurance statutes and regulations pursuant to the risk-based supervisory approach required additional filings by insurers to be made to the BMA. The required statutory capital and surplus of our Bermuda-based operating subsidiaries increased under the Bermuda Solvency Capital Requirement model. While Third Point Re BDA and Third Point Re USA, as they currently operate, currently have excess capital and surplus under these new requirements, there can be no assurance that such requirement or similar regulations, in their current form or as may be amended in the future, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any failure to meet applicable requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements could subject us to further examination or corrective action by regulators, including restrictions on dividend payments, limitations on our writing of additional business or engaging in finance activities, supervision or liquidation. Further, any changes in existing risk based capital requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements may require us to increase our statutory capital levels, which we might be unable to do.. Because we are a Bermuda company, we are subject to changes in Bermuda law and regulation that may have an adverse impact on our operations, including through the imposition of increased regulatory supervision.. The Bermuda insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework recently has become subject to substantial change, in part in order to achieve equivalence under Solvency II, the EU regulatory regime enacted in November 2009 and that imposes new solvency and governance requirements across all EU Member States.. On November 26, 2015, the European Commission adopted a Delegated Act that recognizes Bermuda's regulatory framework for insurance and reinsurance activities of companies with their head offices in Bermuda, as well as for supervision of insurance and reinsurance groups, with the exception of captives and special purpose insurers, as being fully equivalent to regulatory standards applied to European insurance and reinsurance companies and groups in accordance with the requirements of Solvency II.  The Delegated Act was confirmed on March 24, 2016 and was applied. 42. retroactively to January 1, 2016, the date Solvency II came into effect.  The EC's decision followed substantial changes to Bermuda's regulatory framework, including the adoption of the Insurance Amendment (No 2) Act 2015 in July 2015 that entered into force on January 1, 2016, the amendment to the Insurance Code of Conduct with effect from July 2015 and the adoption of revised insurance prudential rules by the BMA that entered into force on January 1, 2016. As many of these changes only came into effect on January 1, 2016, their impact on insurers and reinsurers on companies subject to Bermudian regulation, such as Third Point Re BDA and Third Point Re USA, is unclear.. While we cannot predict the future impact on our operations of changes in the laws and regulation to which we are or may become subject, any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Bermuda insurance laws regarding the change of control of insurance companies may limit the acquisition of our shares.. Under Bermuda law, for so long as we have an insurance subsidiary registered under the Insurance Act, the BMA may at any time, by written notice, object to a person holding 10% or more of our common shares if it appears to the BMA that the person is not or is no longer fit and proper to be such a holder. In such a case, the BMA may require the shareholder to reduce its holding of our common shares and direct, among other things, that such shareholder's voting rights attaching to the common shares shall not be exercisable. A person who does not comply with such a notice or direction from the BMA will be guilty of an offence. This may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable.. Risks Relating to Taxation. In addition to the risk factors discussed below, we advise you to read \"Certain Tax Considerations\" and to consult your own tax advisor regarding the tax consequences to you of your investment in our shares.. We may be subject to United States federal income taxation.. We are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda and we believe that our activities, as currently conducted (including through our U.S.-based subsidiary, Third Point Re USA) and as contemplated, will not cause us to be treated as engaging in a United States trade or business and will not cause us to be subject to current United States federal income taxation on our net income, except with respect to Third Point Re USA, which is treated as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, because there are no definitive standards provided by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended or the Code, regulations or court decisions as to the specific activities that constitute being engaged in the conduct of a trade or business within the United States, and as any such determination is essentially factual in nature and must be made annually, we cannot assure you that the United States Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, will not successfully assert that we are engaged in a trade or business in the United States or, if applicable under the income tax treaty between the U.S. and Bermuda (the \"Bermuda Treaty\"), engaged in a trade or business in the United States through a permanent establishment, and thus are subject to current United States federal income taxation. If we were deemed to be engaged in a trade or business in the United States (and, if applicable under the Bermuda Treaty, were deemed to be so engaged through a permanent establishment), Third Point Re BDA generally would become subject to United States federal income tax on its income \"effectively connected\" (or treated as effectively connected) with the U.S. trade or business, and would become subject to the \"branch profits\" tax on its earnings and profits that are both effectively connected with the U.S. trade or business and deemed repatriated out of the United States. Any such federal tax liability could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. United States persons who own our shares may be subject to United States federal income taxation on our undistributed earnings and may recognize ordinary income upon disposition of shares.. Passive Foreign Investment Company (\"PFIC\"). Significant potential adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences generally apply to any United States person who owns shares in a PFIC. In general, either we and/or Third Point Re BDA would be a PFIC for a taxable year if 75% or more of its income constitutes \"passive income\" or 50% or more of its assets were held to produce \"passive income.\" Passive income generally includes interest, dividends and other investment income, but does not include income derived in the active conduct of an insurance business by a corporation. 43. predominantly engaged in an insurance business. This exception for insurance companies is intended to ensure that a bona fide insurance company's income is not treated as passive income, except to the extent such income is attributable to financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of the insurance business. However, there is very little authority as to what constitutes the active conduct of an insurance business for purposes of the PFIC rules. The recently enacted \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,\" P.L. 115-97 (the \"TCJA\"), modifies the insurance exception to apply to a company only if (i) the company would be taxed as an insurance company were it a U.S. corporation and (ii) either (A) loss and loss adjustment expenses and certain reserves constitute more than 25% of the company's gross assets for the relevant year or (B) loss and loss adjustments expenses and certain reserves constitute more than 10% of the company's gross assets for the relevant year and, based on the applicable facts and circumstances, the company is predominantly engaged in an insurance business and the failure of the company to satisfy the preceding 25% test is due solely to run-off related or rating-related circumstances involving the insurance business. By adding an additional \"bright line\" test to the existing PFIC requirements, the TCJA significantly increases the risk that a non-US insurer will be treated as a PFIC, even if it actively conducts insurance operations.   There remain significant uncertainties as to the interpretation of the PFIC active insurance exception given the lack of final IRS regulations.  Consequently, although we intend to structure our assets and operations, as practicable, in a manner to avoid being classified as a PFIC for 2018, there can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy the requirements of the TCJA.. The IRS has notified taxpayers in IRS Notice 2003-34 that it intends to scrutinize the activities of certain insurance companies located outside of the United States, including reinsurance companies that invest a significant portion of their assets in alternative investment strategies, to determine whether such companies qualify for the active insurance company exception in the PFIC rules.  The IRS recently proposed regulations concerning the active insurance company exception.  The proposed regulations provide that the active conduct of an insurance business must include the performance of substantial managerial and operational services by an insurance company's own employees and officers.  The activities of independent contractors and employees of affiliates are not sufficient to satisfy this requirement.  The proposed regulations also clarify that income from investment assets held by an insurance company to meet its obligations under insurance and annuity contracts will not be treated as passive income for PFIC purposes. However, the IRS did not propose a specific method for determining the portion of an insurance company's assets that are held to meet obligations under insurance and annuity contracts, and solicited comments on appropriate approaches. At this time it is unclear whether final regulations will include a specific methodology and how any such methodology would apply to us. The proposed regulations will be effective when issued in final form.. We believe that our financial reserves are consistent with industry standards and are not in excess of the reasonable needs of our insurance business, that we are actively engaged in insurance activities that involve sufficient transfer of risk, and that our employees and officers provide substantial managerial and operational services. However, we cannot assure you the IRS will agree with our position and will not successfully assert that we do not qualify for the insurance exception, and, as discussed above, no assurance can be given that we will be able to operate in a manner to satisfy the additional requirements imposed by the TCJA in any given year.  Moreover, our expectation with respect to any taxable year is based on the amount of risk that we expect to underwrite and the amount of insurance-related liabilities we expect to incur during that year. If we are unable to underwrite a sufficient amount of risk or have sufficient insurance-related liabilities for any taxable year, we and/or Third Point Re BDA might be treated as a PFIC. Furthermore, in certain circumstances, we may seek to manage the volatility of our reinsurance results by writing policies that contain certain contractual terms and conditions (such as loss ratio caps), which may cause the IRS to assert that such policies lack sufficient risk transfer to constitute insurance for United States federal income tax purposes, increasing the risk that we and/or Third Point Re BDA may be treated as a PFIC. Counsel to the Company and its subsidiaries (the \"Group\") have never provided an opinion regarding the Group's PFIC status due to the absence of applicable authority regarding the active insurance company exception and the dependence of the Group's PFIC status on the actual operational results and other relevant facts for each taxable year. Readers are urged to consult their own tax advisors to assess their tolerance of this risk.. If a \"United States person\" holds our shares as \"capital assets\" within the meaning of section 1221 of the Code during any taxable year in which we and/or Third Point Re BDA are treated as PFICs, such shares will generally be treated as stock in a PFIC for all subsequent years. Certain elections designed to mitigate the adverse consequences of owning shares in a PFIC, including a \"Protective QEF Election,\" may be available. If you are a United States person, we advise you to consult your own tax advisor concerning the potential tax consequences to you under the PFIC rules, the advisability of making one of these elections and to assess your tolerance of this risk.. 44. Controlled Foreign Corporations (\"CFC\"). United States persons who, directly or indirectly or through attribution rules, own 10% or more of the voting power or, under the TCJA, the value, of our shares, which we refer to as United States 10% shareholders, may be subject to the CFC rules. Under the CFC rules, each United States 10% shareholder must annually include its pro rata share of the CFC's \"subpart F income,\" even if no distributions are made. In general (subject to the special rules applicable to \"related person insurance income\" described below), a foreign insurance company will be treated as a CFC only if United States 10% shareholders collectively own more than 25% of the total combined voting power or total value of the company's shares at any time during any year. If you are a United States. person we strongly urge you to consult your own tax advisor concerning the controlled foreign corporation rules.. Related Person Insurance Income. If (a) our gross income attributable to insurance or reinsurance policies pursuant to which the direct or indirect insureds or our direct or indirect United States shareholders or persons related to such United States shareholders equals or exceeds 20% of our gross insurance income in any taxable year; and (b) direct or indirect insureds and persons related to such insureds own directly or indirectly 20% or more of the voting power or value of our shares, a United States. person who owns any shares directly or indirectly on the last day of the taxable year would most likely be required to include its allocable share of our related person insurance income for the taxable year in its income, even if no distributions are made. We do not expect that it is likely that either or both of the 20% gross insurance income threshold or the 20% direct or indirect ownership threshold will be met. However, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. Consequently, we cannot assure you that a person who is a direct or indirect United States shareholder will not be required to include amounts in its income in respect of related person insurance income in any taxable year.. Dispositions of Our Shares. If a United States shareholder is treated as disposing of shares in a CFC of which it is a United States 10% shareholder, or of shares in a foreign insurance corporation that has related person insurance income and in which United States persons collectively own 25% or more of the voting power or value of the company's share capital, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the United States shareholder's portion of the corporation's undistributed earnings and profits, as the case may be, that were accumulated during the period that the U.S. shareholder owned the shares. In addition, the shareholder will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the direct or indirect United States shareholder. Although not free from doubt, we believe it would be reasonable for a United States person to take the position that these rules should not apply to dispositions of our shares because we should not have any United States 10% shareholders and will not be directly engaged in the insurance business. We cannot assure you, however, that the IRS will interpret the proposed regulations potentially applicable to such dispositions in this manner or that the proposed regulations will not be promulgated in final form in a manner that would cause these rules to apply to dispositions of our shares.. United States tax-exempt organizations who own our shares may recognize unrelated business taxable income.. A United States tax-exempt organization may recognize unrelated business taxable income if a portion of our subpart F insurance income is allocated to it. In general, subpart F insurance income will be allocated to a tax-exempt organization owning (or treated as owning) our shares if we are a CFC as discussed above and it is a United States 10% shareholder or we earn related person insurance income and the exceptions described above do not apply. We cannot assure you that United States persons holding our shares (directly or indirectly) will not be allocated subpart F insurance income. United States tax-exempt organizations should consult their own tax advisors regarding the risk of recognizing unrelated business taxable income as a result of the ownership of our shares.. Change in United States tax laws may be retroactive and could subject us to increased taxes and/or United States persons who own our shares to United States income taxation on our undistributed earnings and could adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted that could result in increased tax expenditures in the future.. The tax laws and interpretations thereof regarding whether a company is engaged in a United States trade or business, is a CFC, has related party insurance income or is a PFIC are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. The regulations regarding the application of the passive foreign investment company rules to an insurance company and regarding related party insurance income are in proposed form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or. 45. clarifying such rules may be forthcoming from the IRS. We are not able to predict if, when or in what form such guidance will be provided and whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect.. Our affiliate transactions may be subject to the base erosion and anti-abuse tax (\"BEAT\").. The TCJA imposes a minimum tax (the \"BEAT\") on certain payments by United States corporations to a related foreign corporation, which could impose material incremental taxes on reinsurance transactions between Third Point Re USA and Third Point Re BDA, unless Third Point Re USA qualifies for exceptions for taxpayers whose gross receipts or affiliate payments fall under specified thresholds.  Although we presently expect that Third Point Re USA would qualify for one of the exceptions, there can be no assurance that the BEAT will not apply to Third Point Re USA.. We may become subject to U.S. withholding and information reporting requirements under the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (\"FATCA\") provisions.. The Foreign Account Tax Compliance provisions of the Code (\"FATCA\") generally impose a 30% withholding tax regime with respect to (i) certain U.S. source income (including interest and dividends) and gross proceeds from any sale or other disposition after December 31, 2018, of property that can produce U.S. source interest or dividends (\"withholdable payments\") and (ii) \"foreign passthru payments\" made by foreign financial institutions (\"FFIs\") after December 31, 2018 (or, if later, the date on which the final U.S. Treasury Regulations that define (foreign passthru payments are published).. On December 19, 2013, the Bermuda Government entered into a \"Model 2\" intergovernmental agreement (\"IGA\") with the United States to implement FATCA. If we and/or Third Point Re BDA are treated as FFIs for the purposes of FATCA, under the Model 2 IGA, we and/or Third Point Re BDA will be directed to register with the IRS and required to comply with the requirements of FATCA, including due diligence, reporting and withholding. Assuming registration and compliance with the terms of an agreement with the IRS (an \"FFI Agreement\") pursuant to a Model 2 IGA, an FFI would be treated as FATCA compliant and not subject to withholding. An FFI that satisfies the eligibility, information reporting and other requirements of the IGA will not be subject to the regular FATCA reporting and withholding obligations discussed below.. If the Company and/or Third Point Re BDA are treated as FFIs for purposes of FATCA, withholdable payments and foreign passthru payments made to the Company and/or Third Point Re BDA will be subject to a 30% withholding tax unless an FFI Agreement is in effect, pursuant to which the Company and/or Third Point Re BDA would be required to provide information regarding its U.S. direct or indirect owners and to comply with other reporting, verification, due diligence and other procedures established by the IRS, including a requirement to seek waivers of non-U.S. laws that would prevent the reporting of such information. The IRS may terminate the FFI Agreement if the IRS notifies the Company and/or Third Point Re BDA that it is out of compliance with the FFI Agreement and the Company and/or Third Point Re BDA does not remediate the compliance failure. Even if the Company and/or Third Point Re BDA are subject to an FFI Agreement, distributions to an investor that are treated as foreign passthru payments generally will be subject to a 30% withholding tax (a) if the investor fails to provide information or take other actions required for the the Company and/or Third Point Re BDA to comply with the FFI Agreement including, in the case of a non-U.S. investor, providing information regarding certain U.S. direct and indirect owners of the investor (and, in certain circumstances, obtaining waivers of non-U.S. law to permit such reporting), or (b) if the investor is an FFI, unless the investor (i) is subject to an FFI Agreement, (ii) establishes that an exemption applies or (iii) is required to comply with FATCA under an applicable IGA.. Under the regulations implementing FATCA, a foreign insurance company (or foreign holding company of an insurance company) that issues or is obligated to make payments with respect to an account is a foreign financial institution. For this purpose, insurance contracts treated as having \"cash value\" and annuity contracts issued or maintained by a financial institution are considered accounts, and certain term life insurance contracts are not considered accounts. Insurance companies that issue only property and casualty insurance contracts, or that only issue life insurance contracts lacking cash value (or that provide for limited cash value) generally would not be considered FFIs under the final regulations. However, a holding company may be treated as an FFI if it is formed in connection with or availed of by a collective investment vehicle, mutual fund, exchange traded fund, hedge fund, venture capital fund, leveraged buyout fund, or any similar investment vehicle established with an investment strategy of investing, reinvesting, or trading in financial assets. Moreover, a company may be treated as an FFI if its gross income is primarily attributable to investing, reinvesting,. 46. or trading in financial assets and the entity is managed by an FFI, or the entity functions or holds itself out as an investment vehicle established with an investment strategy of investing, reinvesting, or trading in financial assets.  Even if the Company and/or Third Point Re BDA are not treated as FFIs, then depending on whether the shares of the Company are treated as \"regularly traded on one or more more established securities markets\" under the FATCA rules and whether the income and assets of Third Point Re BDA meet the requirements for the treatment of Third Point Re BDA as an \"active NFFE,\" withholdable payments to the Company and/or Third Point Re BDA  may be subject to a 30% withholding tax unless the Company and/or Third Point Re BDA provide information regarding its U.S. direct or indirect owners.. There can be no certainty as to whether the Company and/or Third Point Re BDA will be subject to the requirements imposed on FFIs under FACTA. We will use reasonable efforts to avoid the imposition of a withholding tax under FACTA, which may include the entering into of an FFI Agreement.. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares. Future sales of shares by existing shareholders could cause our share price to decline, even if our business is performing well.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common shares to decline.. A significant number of our common shares are currently restricted as a result of applicable securities laws, but are  eligible for sale subject to the applicable volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144. As of December 31, 2017, we also had reserved for issuance common shares underlying certain warrants to purchase, in the aggregate, up to 4,651,163 common shares. In addition, certain of our significant shareholders may distribute shares that they hold to their investors who themselves may then sell into the public market. Such sales may not be subject to the volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144. As resale restrictions end, the market price of our common shares could decline if the holders of those shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them.. Certain existing holders of our common shares also have registration rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the sale of their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other shareholders in the future. In the event that we register the common shares for the holders of registration rights, they can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to certain limitations applicable to affiliates.. As of December 31, 2017, a total of 22,252,206 common shares were reserved for issuance under our current share incentive plans and in connection with restricted share award agreements entered into between us and certain of our employees and directors. As of December 31, 2017, there were share options outstanding (subject to vesting) for 8,888,053 common shares. We have registered on a Form S-8 registration statement these shares and all common shares that we may in future issue under our equity compensation plans. As a result, these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to certain limitations applicable to affiliates.. In the future, we may issue additional common shares or other equity or debt securities convertible into common shares in connection with a financing, acquisition, litigation settlement or employee arrangement or otherwise. Any of these issuances could result in substantial dilution to our existing shareholders and could cause the trading price of our common shares to decline.. If securities analysts or industry analysts downgrade our common shares, publish negative research or reports or fail to publish reports about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common shares is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us, our business and our market. If one or more analysts adversely changes their recommendation regarding our stock or our competitors' stock, our share price would likely decline. If one or more analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets which in turn could cause our share price or trading volume to decline.. 47. If the ownership of our common shares continues to be concentrated, it could prevent you and other shareholders from influencing significant corporate decisions.. Third Point Re was incorporated on October 6, 2011. On December 22, 2011, KIA TP Holdings, L.P. and KEP TP Holdings, L.P., which are affiliates of Kelso & Company (collectively, \"Kelso\") and Pine Brook LVR, L.P., an affiliate of Pine Brook Road Partners, LLC (collectively, \"Pine Brook\", and Pine Brook and together with Kelso, the \"Lead Investors\" and each individually, a \"Lead Investor\"), Dowling Capital Partners I, L.P., an affiliate of Dowling Capital Management, LLC (collectively, \"Dowling\"), P RE Opportunities Ltd. (\"PROL\"), Third Point LLC, Daniel S. Loeb and affiliates associated with Mr. Loeb (collectively, the \"Loeb Entities\") and John R. Berger (collectively, the \"Founders\"), together with certain members of management, committed $533.0 million to capitalize Third Point Re. As of December 31, 2017, Kelso, the Loeb Entities and the Company's directors and named executive officers, as defined in the proxy statement, beneficially own approximately 11.9%, 9.4% and 7.1% of our issued and outstanding common shares, respectively, on an as converted basis after giving effect to the issuance of vested warrants and options representing the right to purchase 13,399,684 common shares.  As a result, Kelso, the Loeb Entities, our directors and named executive officers could exercise influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions, which may reduce the market price of our common shares.. The interests of our existing shareholders may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. Our Board of Directors has adopted corporate governance guidelines that, among other things, addressed potential conflicts between a director's interests and our interests. In addition, we have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that, among other things, required our employees to avoid actions or relationships that might conflict or appear to conflict with their job responsibilities or our interests and to disclose their outside activities, financial interests or relationships that may present a possible conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict to our general counsel. These corporate governance guidelines and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics will not, by themselves, prohibit transactions with our Founders.. The market price of our common shares may fluctuate significantly.. The market price of our common shares may fluctuate significantly. Among the factors that could affect our share price are:. • industry or general market conditions;. • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance;. • changes in our clients' needs;. • new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines;. • lawsuits, enforcement actions and other claims by third parties or governmental authorities;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results;. • changes in securities analysts' estimates of our financial performance or lack of research and reports by industry analysts;. • action by institutional shareholders or other large shareholders (including the Founders), including future sales;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • investor perception of us and our industry;. • changes in market valuations or earnings of similar companies;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic partnerships;. • any future sales of our common shares or other securities; and. • additions or departures of key personnel.. The stock markets have experienced volatility in recent years that has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, class action litigation has often been instituted against such company. Any litigation of this type brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. 48. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common shares and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common shares.. We do not intend to declare and pay dividends on our share capital for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your common shares for the foreseeable future and the success of an investment in our common shares will depend upon any future appreciation in their value. There is no guarantee that our common shares will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our shareholders have purchased their shares.. We may repurchase our common shares without our shareholders' consent.. Under our bye-laws and subject to Bermuda law, we have the option, but not the obligation, to require a shareholder to sell to us at fair market value the minimum number of common shares that is necessary to avoid or cure any adverse tax consequences or materially adverse legal or regulatory treatment to us, our subsidiaries or our shareholders if our Board of Directors reasonably determines, in good faith, that failure to exercise our option would result in such adverse consequences or treatment.. Holders of our shares may have difficulty effecting service of process on us or enforcing judgments against us in the United States.. We are incorporated pursuant to the laws of Bermuda and our business is based in Bermuda. In addition, certain of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, and all or a substantial portion of our assets are located in jurisdictions outside the United States. As such, we have been advised that there is doubt as to whether:. • a holder of our shares would be able to enforce, in the courts of Bermuda, judgments of United States courts against persons who reside in Bermuda based upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws;. • a holder of our shares would be able to enforce, in the courts of Bermuda, judgments of United States courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws;. • a holder of our shares would be able to bring an original action in the Bermuda courts to enforce liabilities against us or our directors and officers who reside outside the United States based solely upon United States federal securities laws.. Further, we have been advised that there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Bermuda providing for the enforcement of judgments of United States courts, and there are grounds upon which Bermuda courts may not enforce judgments of United States courts. Because judgments of United States courts are not automatically enforceable in Bermuda, it may be difficult for you to recover against us based upon such judgments.. U.S. persons who own our shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation.. The Companies Act, which applies to us, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. Set forth below is a summary of certain significant provisions of the Companies Act and our bye-laws which differ in certain respects from provisions of Delaware corporate law. Because the following statements are summaries, they do not discuss all aspects of Bermuda law that may be relevant to us and our shareholders.. Interested Directors: Bermuda law provides that we cannot void any transaction we enter into in which a director has an interest, nor can such director be liable to us for any profit realized pursuant to such transaction, provided the nature of the interest is disclosed at the first opportunity at a meeting of directors, or in writing, to the directors. Under Delaware law such transaction would not be voidable if:. • the material facts as to such interested director's relationship or interests were disclosed or were known to the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors had in good faith authorized the transaction by the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested directors;. • such material facts were disclosed or were known to the shareholders entitled to vote on such transaction and the transaction were specifically approved in good faith by vote of the majority of shares entitled to vote thereon; or. 49. • the transaction were fair as to the corporation as of the time it was authorized, approved or ratified. Under Delaware law, the interested director could be held liable for a transaction in which the director derived an improper personal benefit.. Business Combinations with Large Shareholders or Affiliates: As a Bermuda company, we may enter into business combinations with our large shareholders or affiliates, including mergers, asset sales and other transactions in which a large shareholder or affiliate receives, or could receive, a financial benefit that is greater than that received, or to be received, by other shareholders, without obtaining prior approval from our Board of Directors or from our shareholders. If we were a Delaware corporation, we would need prior approval from our Board of Directors or a super-majority of our shareholders to enter into a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years from the time the person became an interested shareholder, unless we opted out of the relevant Delaware statute. Our bye-laws include a provision restricting business combinations with interested shareholders consistent with the corresponding Delaware statute.. Shareholders' Suits: The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law are not as extensive as the rights of shareholders in many United States jurisdictions. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of Bermuda. However, the Bermuda courts ordinarily would be expected to follow English case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of the company to remedy a wrong done to the company where an act is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company, is illegal or would result in the violation of our memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, a court would consider acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of our shareholders than actually approved it. The winning party in such an action generally would be able to recover a portion of attorneys' fees incurred in connection with such action. Our bye-laws provide that shareholders waive all claims or rights of action that they might have, individually or in the right of the company, against any director or officer for any act or failure to act in the performance of such director's or officer's duties, except with respect to any fraud or dishonesty of such director or officer. Class actions and derivative actions generally are available to shareholders under Delaware law for, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty, corporate waste and actions not taken in accordance with applicable law. In such actions, the court has discretion to permit the winning party to recover attorneys' fees incurred in connection with such action.. Indemnification of Directors: We have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors. The indemnification agreements provide that we will indemnify our directors or officers or any person appointed to any committee by the Board of Directors acting in their capacity as such in relation to any of our affairs for any loss arising or liability attaching to them by virtue of any rule of law in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust of which such person may be guilty in relation to the company other than in respect of his own fraud or dishonesty. Under Delaware law, a corporation may indemnify a director or officer of the corporation against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred in defense of an action, suit or proceeding by reason of such position if such director or officer acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not be opposed to the best interests of the corporation and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, such director or officer had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful.. Provisions in our bye-laws may reduce or increase the voting rights of our shares.. In general, and except as provided under our bye-laws and as described below, the common shareholders have one vote for each common share held by them and are entitled to vote, on a non-cumulative basis, at all meetings of shareholders. However, if, and so long as, the shares of a shareholder are treated as \"controlled shares\" (as determined pursuant to sections 957 and 958 of the Code of any United States person (that owns shares directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) and such controlled shares constitute 9.5% or more of the votes conferred by our issued shares, the voting rights with respect to the controlled shares owned by such United States person will be limited, in the aggregate, to a voting power of less than 9.5%, under a formula specified in our bye-laws. The formula is applied repeatedly until the voting power of all 9.5% U.S. shareholders has been reduced to less than 9.5%. In addition, our Board of Directors may limit a shareholder's voting rights when it deems it appropriate to do so to (i) avoid the existence of any 9.5% U.S. shareholder; and (ii) avoid certain material adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any direct or indirect shareholder or its affiliates. \"Controlled shares\" include, among other things, all shares that a United States person is deemed to own directly, indirectly or constructively (within the meaning of section 958 of the. 50. Code). The amount of any reduction of votes that occurs by operation of the above limitations will generally be reallocated proportionately among our other shareholders whose shares were not \"controlled shares\" of the 9.5% U.S. shareholder so long as such reallocation does not cause any person to become a 9.5% U.S. Shareholder.. Under these provisions, certain shareholders may have their voting rights limited, while other shareholders may have voting rights in excess of one vote per share. Moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing the votes of certain shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the 9.5% limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership.. We are authorized under our bye-laws to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining whether a shareholder's voting rights are to be reallocated under the bye-laws. If any holder fails to respond to this request or submits incomplete or inaccurate information, we may, in our sole discretion, eliminate the shareholder's voting rights. Any shareholder must give notice to us within ten days following the date it owns 9.5% of our common shares.. Our bye-laws contain provisions that could discourage takeovers and business combinations that our shareholders might consider in their best interests.. Our bye-laws include certain provisions that could have the effect of delaying, deterring, preventing or rendering more difficult a change in control of us that our shareholders might consider in their best interests.. For example, our bye-laws:. • provide the right of shareholders to act by majority written consent for so long as the Lead Investors and the Loeb Entities collectively hold at least 35% of our issued and outstanding common shares;. • establish a classified Board of Directors;. • require advance notice of shareholders' proposals in connection with annual general meetings;. • authorize our board to issue \"blank cheque\" preferred shares;. • prohibit us from engaging in a business combination with a person who acquires at least 15% of our common shares for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such common shares unless board and shareholder approval is obtained prior to the acquisition;. • require that directors only be removed from office for cause by majority shareholder vote once the Lead Investors and the Loeb Entities cease to collectively hold at least 35% of our issued and outstanding shares;. • allow each of Kelso and Pine Brook to appoint one director for so long as they hold not less than 25% of the number of shares respectively held as of December 22, 2011;. • require a supermajority vote of shareholders to effect certain amendments to our memorandum of association and bye-laws; and. • provide a consent right on the part of Kelso, Pine Brook and Daniel S. Loeb to any amendments to our bye-laws or memorandum of association which would have a material adverse effect on their rights for so long as they hold not less than 25% of the number of shares respectively held as of December 22, 2011.. Any such provision could prevent our shareholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common shares offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of any of these provisions could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares if they were viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future."
