[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We operate globally in challenging and highly competitive markets and thus our business is subject to a variety of risks. Listed below are some of the more critical or unique risk factors that we have identified as affecting or potentially affecting the company and the offshore marine service industry which could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. You should consider all risks when evaluating any of our forward-looking statements. The effect of any one risk factor or a combination of several risk factors could materially affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and the accuracy of any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. 19. Risks Relating to Chapter 11 Proceedings. We will be subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with the chapter 11 proceedings.. On May 17, 2017, the company, along with certain of its domestic subsidiaries, filed voluntary petitions seeking relief under chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. The chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings do not include our international subsidiaries.. Our operations and ability to develop and execute our business plan, our financial condition, our liquidity, and our continuation as a going concern, are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with our bankruptcy. These risks include the following:. •  our ability to execute, confirm and consummate the Prepackaged Plan or another plan of reorganization with respect to the chapter 11 proceedings;. •  the possibility that various constituencies who have not agreed to support the Prepackaged Plan will seek to obtain relief from the bankruptcy court to reform or amend the plan in a manner that would materially impair the ability of the company to achieve the short and long-term objectives that the Prepackaged Plan has been designed to support;. •  the uncertainty regarding the outcome of the chapter 11 proceeding may impair our ability to procure additional work on commercially favorable terms, if at all;. •  the high costs of bankruptcy proceedings and related fees;. •  our ability to maintain our relationships with our suppliers, service providers, customers, employees, and other third parties;. •  our ability to maintain important contractual relationships that support our operations;. •  our ability to execute our business plan in the current challenged environment for offshore drilling and exploration activity;. •  our ability to attract, motivate and retain key employees;. •  the possibility that third parties will seek and obtain court approval to terminate contract and other agreements with us;. •  the possibility that third parties will seek and obtain court approval to convert the chapter 11 proceedings to a chapter 7 proceeding; and. •  the actions and decisions of our creditors and other third parties who have interests in our chapter 11 proceedings that may be inconsistent with our plans.. As of March 31, 2017, we had $2.04 billion of debt ($2.03 billion, net of deferred debt issue costs of $6.4 million). While we anticipate $1.6 billion of our indebtedness will be discharged if and when the company emerges from bankruptcy, there is no assurance that the effectiveness of the Prepackaged Plan will occur in July 2017 as expected, or at all.. Delays in our chapter 11 proceedings increase the risks of our being unable to reorganize our business and emerge from bankruptcy and increase our costs associated with the bankruptcy process.. These risks and uncertainties could affect our business and operations in various ways. For example, negative events or publicity associated with our chapter 11 proceedings could adversely affect our relationships with our suppliers, service providers, customers, employees, and other third parties, which in turn could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Also, pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code, we need the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court for transactions outside the ordinary course of business, which may limit our ability to respond timely to unanticipated or unusual events or. 20. take advantage of certain opportunities. We also need Bankruptcy Court confirmation of the Prepackaged Plan. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with our chapter 11 proceedings, we cannot accurately predict or quantify the ultimate impact that events that occur during our chapter 11 proceedings will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations or that may be inconsistent with our plans.. The proposed treatment of our common stockholders under the terms of the Prepackaged Plan may be challenged by the company's creditors that have not agreed to support the Prepackaged Plan, and the Bankruptcy Court may alter the Prepackaged Plan in a manner that treats our common stockholders less favorably.. The Prepackaged Plan provides, among other things, that upon our emergence from our chapter 11 cases, shares of our existing common stock will be canceled and the holders of our existing common stock will receive thereafter, in the aggregate, five percent of the pro forma common equity in reorganized Tidewater Inc. (subject to dilution by management incentive plan and the exercise of warrants to existing stockholders under the Prepackaged Plan) plus warrants to acquire up to an additional 15% of common stock of reorganized Tidewater Inc. if certain market capitalization benchmarks are achieved. The Prepackaged Plan may not be confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, in which case, the chance that the existing shareholders will receive little or no distribution in our chapter 11 proceedings would increase. Accordingly, any trading in shares of our common stock during the pendency of the chapter 11 proceedings is highly speculative.. We may be subject to claims that will not be discharged in our chapter 11 proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The Bankruptcy Code provides that the confirmation of a chapter 11 plan of reorganization discharges a debtor from substantially all debts arising prior to confirmation. With few exceptions, all claims that arose prior to confirmation of the plan of reorganization (i) would be subject to compromise and/or treatment under the plan of reorganization and (ii) would be discharged in accordance with the Bankruptcy Code and the terms of the plan of reorganization. Any claims not ultimately discharged through a chapter 11 plan of reorganization could be asserted against the reorganized entities and may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations on a post-reorganization basis.. Upon emergence from bankruptcy, our historical financial information may not be comparable to our future financial performance.. Our capital structure will be significantly altered under the Prepackaged Plan. Under fresh start reporting rules that would apply to us upon the effective date of the Prepackaged Plan (or any alternative plan of reorganization), our assets and liabilities would be adjusted to fair values and our accumulated deficit would be eliminated. In such case, our financial condition and results of operations following our emergence from our chapter 11 cases would not be comparable to the financial condition and results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements.. The pursuit of the RSA has consumed, and the chapter 11 proceedings will continue to consume, a substantial portion of the time and attention of our management, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations, and we may face increased levels of employee attrition.. Although the RSA and the Prepackaged Plan have been structured to minimize the length of our chapter 11 proceedings, it is impossible to predict with certainty the duration of the bankruptcy proceeding. The chapter 11 proceedings will involve additional expense and our management will be required to devote substantial time and effort focusing on the proceedings. This diversion of attention may have a material adverse effect on the conduct of our business, and, as a result, our financial condition and results of operations, particularly if the chapter 11 proceedings are protracted.. During the pendency of the chapter 11 proceedings, our employees will face considerable distraction and uncertainty, and we may experience increased levels of employee attrition. A loss of key personnel or material erosion of employee morale could have a material adverse effect on our ability to effectively, efficiently and safely conduct our business, and could impair our ability to execute our strategy and implement operational initiatives, thereby having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Upon emergence from bankruptcy, the composition of our board of directors will change significantly.. Under the Prepackaged Plan, the composition of our board of directors will change significantly. Upon emergence, the board will be made up of seven directors, six of whom will be designated by the Consenting Creditors who are parties to the RSA, with the only continuing director being our current Chief Executive Officer. Our new directors are likely to have. 21. different backgrounds, experiences and perspectives from those individuals who previously served on the board and who may, individually and collectively, have different views on the issues that will determine the future of the company. As a result, the future strategy and plans of the company may differ materially from those of the past.. The Prepackaged Plan and any other plan of reorganization that we may implement will be based in large part upon assumptions, projections and analyses developed by us. If these assumptions, projections and analyses prove to be incorrect in any material respect, the Prepackaged Plan may not be successfully implemented.. The Prepackaged Plan and any other plan of reorganization that we may implement have been based in important part on assumptions and analyses based on our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other factors that we have considered appropriate under the circumstances. Whether actual future results and developments will be consistent with our expectations and assumptions depends on a number of factors, including but not limited to (i) our ability to change substantially our capital structure; (ii)  our ability to maintain customers' confidence in our viability as a continuing entity and to attract and retain sufficient business from them; (iii) our ability to retain key employees; and (iv) the overall strength and stability of general economic conditions of the financial and oil and gas industries, both in the U.S. and in global markets. The failure of any of these factors could materially adversely affect the successful reorganization of our businesses.. In addition, the Prepackaged Plan and any other plan of reorganization will rely upon financial projections, including with respect to revenues, EBITDA, capital expenditures, debt service and cash flow. Financial forecasts are necessarily speculative, and it is likely that one or more of the assumptions and estimates that are the basis of these financial forecasts will not be accurate. In our case, the forecasts are more speculative than normal, because they are based on an expectation that our balance sheet will be substantially deleveraged. Accordingly, our actual financial condition and results of operations may differ, perhaps materially, from what we have anticipated. Consequently, there can be no assurance that the results or developments contemplated by any plan of reorganization we may implement will occur or, even if they do occur, that they will have the anticipated effects on us and our subsidiaries or our business or operations. The failure of any such results or developments to materialize as anticipated could materially adversely affect the successful execution of any plan of reorganization.. We may not be able to obtain confirmation of the Prepackaged Plan.. There can be no assurance that the Prepackaged Plan (or any other plan of reorganization) will be approved by the Court, so we urge caution with respect to existing and future investments in our securities.. The success of any reorganization will depend on approval by the Court and the willingness of existing unsecured creditors, including our noteholders and lenders under our credit agreement, to agree to the exchange or modification of their interests as outlined in the Prepackaged Plan, and there can be no guarantee of success with respect to the Prepackaged Plan or any other plan of reorganization. We might receive official objections to confirmation of the Prepackaged Plan from the various stakeholders in the chapter 11 proceedings, including any official committees appointed. We cannot predict the impact that any objection might have on the Prepackaged Plan or on a Court's decision to confirm the Prepackaged Plan. Any objection may cause us to devote significant resources in response which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If the Prepackaged Plan is not confirmed by the Court, it is unclear whether we would be able to reorganize our business and what, if any, distributions holders of claims against us, including holders of our secured and unsecured debt and equity, would ultimately receive with respect to their claims and interests. There can be no assurance as to whether we will successfully reorganize and emerge from chapter 11 or, if we do successfully reorganize, as to when we would emerge from chapter 11. If no plan of reorganization can be confirmed, or if the Court otherwise finds that it would be in the best interest of holders of claims and interests, the chapter 11 Cases may be converted to cases under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code, pursuant to which a trustee would be appointed or elected to liquidate our assets for distribution in accordance with the priorities established by the Bankruptcy Code.. Even if a chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization is consummated, we may not be able to achieve our stated goals.. Even if the Prepackaged Plan or another chapter 11 plan of reorganization is consummated, we will continue to face a number of risks, including an extended period of a challenged climate of commodity prices or other changes in economic conditions, changes in our industry, changes in demand for oil and gas and our services and increasing expenses. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that the Prepackaged Plan or any other chapter 11 plan of reorganization will achieve our stated goals.. 22. Furthermore, even if our debts are reduced or discharged through the Prepackaged Plan, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing or other various means to fund our business after the completion of our chapter 11 proceedings. Our access to additional financing is, and for the foreseeable future will likely continue to be, extremely limited, if it is available at all. Therefore, adequate funds may not be available when needed or may not be available on favorable terms, if they are available at all.. Transfers of our equity, or issuances of equity in connection with our chapter 11 proceedings, may impair our ability to utilize our federal income tax net operating loss carryforwards and depreciation deductions in future years.. Under U.S. federal income tax law, a corporation is generally permitted to deduct from taxable income net operating losses carried forward from prior years. We had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $47.6 million as of March 31, 2017 and the company may generate additional net operating losses during fiscal 2018. Our ability to utilize such net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income and to reduce our U.S. federal income tax liability is subject to certain requirements and restrictions. If we experience an \"ownership change,\" as defined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, then our ability to use our pre-emergence net operating loss carryforwards and amortizable tax basis in our properties may be substantially limited, which could have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. Generally, there is an \"ownership change\" if one or more stockholders owning 5% or more of a corporation's common stock have aggregate increases in their ownership of such stock of more than 50 percentage points over the prior three-year period. Following the implementation of a plan of reorganization, it is possible that an \"ownership change\" may be deemed to occur. Under section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, absent an applicable exception, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" the amount of its net operating losses that may be utilized to offset future taxable income generally is subject to an annual limitation. Even if the net operating loss carryforwards are subject to limitation under Section 382, the net operating losses can be further reduced by the amount of discharge of indebtedness arising in a chapter 11 case under Section 108 of the Internal Revenue Code. Further, future deductions for depreciation could be limited if the fair value of our assets is determined to be less than the tax basis.. We requested that the Bankruptcy Court approve restrictions on certain transfers of our stock to limit the risk of an \"ownership change\" prior to our restructuring in our chapter 11 proceedings. Following the implementation of our Plan, it is likely that an \"ownership change\" will be deemed to occur and our net operating losses will nonetheless be subject to annual limitation.. In certain instances, a chapter 11 case may be converted to a case under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code.. Upon a showing of cause, the Bankruptcy Court may convert our chapter 11 case to a case under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. In such event, a chapter 7 trustee would be appointed or elected to liquidate our assets for distribution in accordance with the priorities established by the Bankruptcy Code. We believe that liquidation under chapter 7 would result in significantly smaller distributions being made to our creditors than those provided for in our Plan because of (i) the likelihood that the assets would have to be sold or otherwise disposed of in a distressed fashion in a distressed industry environment over a short period of time rather than in a controlled manner and as a going concern, (ii) additional administrative expenses involved in the appointment of a chapter 7 trustee, and (iii) additional expenses and claims, some of which would be entitled to priority, that would be generated during the liquidation and from the rejection of leases and other executory contracts in connection with a cessation of operations.. Risks Relating to Our Business. The prices for oil and gas affect the level of capital spending by our customers which in turn affects demand and pricing for our services and could negatively impact our results of operations.. Even in a more favorable commodity pricing climate, prices for crude oil and natural gas are highly volatile and extremely sensitive to the respective supply/demand relationship for crude oil and natural gas. The significant decline in crude oil and natural gas prices that began in 2014 has continued to cause many of our customers to significantly reduce drilling, completion and other production activities and related spending on our products and services through fiscal 2017. Some industry analysts expect that a further decrease in offshore spending is likely during calendar year 2017 and that any improvements in offshore E&P activity would likely not occur until calendar year 2018. In addition, the reduction in demand from our customers has resulted in an oversupply of the vessels available for service, and such oversupply has substantially reduced the prices we can charge our customers for our services.. 23. Many factors affect the supply of and demand for crude oil and natural gas and, therefore, influence prices of these commodities, including:. •  domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas, including increased availability of non-traditional energy resources such as shale oil and gas;. •     prices, and expectations about future prices, of oil and natural gas;. •     domestic and worldwide economic conditions, and the resulting global demand for oil and natural gas;. •     the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas including the ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels for oil, and decisions by OPEC to change production levels;. •  sanctions imposed by the U.S., the European Union, or other governments against oil producing countries;. •  the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas;. •  the level of excess production capacity, available pipeline, storage and other transportation capacity;. •  lead times associated with acquiring equipment and products and availability of qualified personnel;. •  the expected rates of decline in production from existing and prospective wells;. •  the discovery rates of new oil and gas reserves;. •  federal, state and local regulation of (i) exploration and drilling activities, (ii) equipment, material, supplies or services that we furnish and (iii) oil and gas exports;. •  public pressure on, and legislative and regulatory interest within, federal, state and local governments to stop, significantly limit or regulate hydraulic fracturing activities;. •  weather conditions, including hurricanes, that can affect oil and natural gas operations over a wide area and severe winter weather that can interfere with oil and gas development and production operations;. •  political instability in oil and natural gas producing countries;. •  advances in exploration, development and production technologies or in technologies affecting energy consumption (such as fracking);. •  the price and availability of alternative fuel and energy sources;. •  uncertainty in capital and commodities markets; and. •  changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other major global currencies.. 24. The ongoing depressed level of oil and natural gas prices significantly curtailed our customers' drilling, completion and other production activities and related spending on our services in fiscal 2017. The energy industry's level of capital spending is substantially related to current and expected future demand for hydrocarbons and the prevailing commodity prices of crude oil and, to a lesser extent, natural gas. When commodity prices are low, or when our customers believe that they will be low in the future, our customers generally reduce their capital spending budgets for onshore and offshore drilling, exploration and field development. The continuing depressed levels of crude oil and natural gas prices has reduced significantly the energy industry's level of capital spending and as long as current conditions persist, capital spending and demand for our services may remain similarly depressed. It is difficult to predict how long the current commodity price conditions will continue, or to what extent low commodity prices will affect our business. Because a prolonged material downturn in crude oil and natural gas prices and/or perceptions of long-term lower commodity prices can negatively impact the development plans of exploration and production companies given the long-term nature of large-scale development projects, a downturn of any such duration would likely result in a significant decline in demand for offshore support services. Declining or continuing depressed oil and natural gas prices may result in negative pressures on:. •  our customer's capital spending and spending on our services;. •  our charter rates and/or utilization rates;. •  our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition;. •  the fair market value of our vessels;. •  our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity;. •  our ability to obtain additional capital to finance our business and make acquisitions, and the cost of that capital; and. •  the collectability of our receivables.. Moreover, higher commodity prices will not necessarily translate into increased demand for offshore support services or sustained higher pricing for offshore support vessel services, in part because customer demand is based on future commodity price expectations and not solely on current prices. Additionally, increased commodity demand may in the future be satisfied by land-based energy resource production and any increased demand for offshore support vessel services can be more than offset by an increased supply of offshore support vessels resulting from the construction of additional offshore support vessels.. Crude oil pricing volatility has increased in recent years as crude oil has emerged as a widely-traded financial asset class. To the extent speculative trading of crude oil causes excessive crude oil pricing volatility, our results of operations could potentially be negatively impacted if such price volatility affects spending and investment decisions of offshore exploration, development and production companies.. We participate in a capital-intensive industry. We may not be able to finance future growth of our operations or future acquisitions.. Our activities require substantial capital expenditures. If our cash flows from operating activities are not sufficient to fund capital expenditures, we would be required to further reduce these expenditures or to fund capital expenditures through debt or equity issuances or through alternative financing plans or selling assets.. Our ability to raise debt or equity capital or to refinance or restructure existing debt arrangements will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time, among other things. Any limitations in our ability to finance future capital expenditures may limit our ability to respond to changes in customer preferences, technological change and other market conditions, which may diminish our competitive position within our sector.. 25. The continued consolidation of our customer base could negatively impact the demand for our services.. Oil and natural gas companies and other energy companies and energy services companies have undergone consolidation, and additional consolidation is possible. Consolidation reduces the number of customers for our equipment, and may negatively affect exploration, development and production activity as consolidated companies focus, at least initially, on increasing efficiency and reducing costs and may delay or abandon exploration activity with less promise. Such activity could adversely affect demand for our offshore services.. The high level of competition on the offshore marine service industry could negatively impact pricing for our services.. We operate in a highly competitive industry, which could depress charter and utilization rates and adversely affect our financial performance. We compete for business with our competitors on the basis of price; reputation for quality service; quality, suitability and technical capabilities of our vessels and ROVs; availability of vessels and ROVs; safety and efficiency; cost of mobilizing vessels and ROVs from one market to a different market; and national flag preference. In addition, competition in international markets may be adversely affected by regulations requiring, among other things, local construction, flagging, ownership or control of vessels, the awarding of contracts to local contractors, the employment of local citizens and/or the purchase of supplies from local vendors.. Our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could all be negatively impacted by the loss of a major customer.. We derive a significant amount of revenue from a relatively small number of customers. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, the five largest customers accounted for approximately 53%, 47% and 45%, respectively, of our total revenues, while the 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 75%, 69%, and 62%, respectively, of our total revenues. While it is normal for our customer base to change over time as our time charter contracts expire and are replaced, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected if one or more of these customers were to decide to interrupt or curtail their activities, in general, or their activities with us; terminate their contracts with us; fail to renew existing contracts; and/or refuse to award new contracts.. The rise in production of unconventional crude oil and gas resources could increase supply without a commensurate growth in demand which would negatively impact oil and gas prices which in turn could negatively impact demand for our services.. The rise in production of unconventional crude oil and gas resources in North America and the commissioning of a number of new large Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) export facilities around the world have contributed to an over-supplied natural gas market. Production from unconventional resources has increased as drilling efficiencies have improved, lowering the costs of extraction. There has also been a buildup of crude oil inventories in the United States in part due to the increased development of unconventional crude oil resources. Prolonged increases in the worldwide supply of crude oil and natural gas, whether from conventional or unconventional sources, without a commensurate growth in demand for crude oil and natural gas will likely continue to weigh on the price of crude oil and natural gas. A prolonged period of low crude oil and natural gas prices would likely have a negative impact on development plans of exploration and production companies), which in turn, may result in a decrease in demand for offshore support vessel services.. Uncertain economic conditions may lead our customers to postpone capital spending which could negatively impact our liquidity and financial condition.. Uncertainty about future global economic market conditions makes it challenging to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. The success of our business is both directly and indirectly dependent upon conditions in the global financial and credit markets that are outside of our control and difficult to predict. Uncertain economic conditions may lead our customers to postpone capital spending in response to tighter credit and reductions in our customers' income or asset values. Similarly, when lenders and institutional investors reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to corporate and other industrial borrowers, the liquidity and financial condition of our company and our customers can be adversely impacted. These factors may also adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Factors such as interest rates, availability of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, changes in laws (including laws relating to taxation), trade barriers, commodity prices, currency exchange rates and controls, and national and international political circumstances (including wars, terrorist acts, security operations, and seaborne refugee issues) can have a material negative effect on our business, revenues and profitability.. 26. An increase in vessel capacity without a corresponding increase in the working offshore rig count could exacerbate the industry's currently oversupplied condition which could negatively impact pricing and demand for our services, which, in turn, could negatively impact our revenues.. Over the past decade, the combination of historically high commodity prices and technological advances resulted in significant growth in deepwater exploration, field development and production. As a result, offshore service companies, such as ours, constructed specialized offshore vessels that are capable of supporting deepwater and deep well (defined by well depth rather than water depth) projects. During this time, construction of offshore vessels increased significantly in order to meet projected requirements of customers and potential customers. Excess offshore support vessel capacity usually exerts downward pressure on charter day rates. Excess capacity can occur when newly constructed vessels enter the worldwide offshore support vessel market and also when vessels migrate between markets. A discussion about our vessel fleet and vessel construction programs appears in the \"Vessel Count, Dispositions, Acquisitions and Construction Programs\" section of Item 7 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. The offshore support vessel market has approximately 335 new-build offshore support vessels (deepwater PSVs, deepwater AHTS vessels and towing-supply vessels only) either under construction (290 vessels), on order or planned as of March 2017, which may be delivered to the worldwide offshore support vessel market primarily over the next 12 months, according to IHS-Petrodata. The current worldwide fleet of these classes of vessels is estimated at approximately 3,510 vessels, according to the same source. An increase in vessel capacity without a corresponding increase in the working offshore rig count could exacerbate the industry's currently oversupplied condition which may have the effect of lowering charter rates and utilization rates, which, in turn, would result in lower revenues to the company.. In addition, the provisions of U.S. shipping laws restricting engagement of U.S. coastwise trade to vessels controlled by U.S. citizens may from time to time be circumvented by foreign competitors that seek to engage in trade reserved for vessels controlled by U.S. citizens and otherwise qualifying for coastwise trade. A repeal, suspension or significant modification of U.S. shipping laws, or the administrative erosion of their benefits, permitting vessels that are either foreign-flagged, foreign-built, foreign-owned, foreign-controlled or foreign-operated to engage in the U.S. coastwise trade, could also result in excess vessel capacity and increased competition, especially for our vessels that operate in North America.. We operate in various regions throughout the world and are exposed to many risks inherent in doing business in countries other than the United States.. We operate in various regions throughout the world and are exposed to many risks inherent in doing business in countries other than the United States, some of which have recently become more pronounced. Our customary risks of operating internationally include political and economic instability within the host country; possible vessel seizures or nationalization of assets and other governmental actions by the host country, including enforcement of customs, immigration or other laws that are not well developed or consistently enforced; foreign government regulations that favor or require the awarding of contracts to local competitors; an inability to recruit, retain or obtain work visas for workers of international operations; difficulties or delays in collecting customer and other accounts receivable; changing taxation policies; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; foreign currency revaluations and devaluations; restrictions on converting foreign currencies into U.S. dollars; expatriating customer and other payments made in jurisdictions outside of the United States; and import/export quotas and restrictions or other trade barriers, most of which are beyond the control of the company. See (i) the \"Legal Proceedings\" section of \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 and Note (12) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K  and (ii) \"Sonatide Joint Venture\" in Item 1 and Note (12) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of our Sonatide joint venture in Angola. While we no longer operate in Venezuela, we note that we have substantial operations in Brazil, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Angola and throughout the west coast of Africa, which generate a large portion of our revenue, where we are exposed to the risks described above.. We are also subject to acts of piracy and kidnappings that put our assets and personnel at risk. The increase in the level of these criminal or terrorist acts over the last several years has been well-publicized. As a marine services company that operates in offshore, coastal or tidal waters in challenging areas, we are particularly vulnerable to these kinds of unlawful activities. Although we take what we consider to be prudent measures to protect our personnel and assets in markets that present these risks, we have confronted these kinds of incidents in the past, and there can be no assurance we will not be subjected to them in the future.. 27. The continued threat of terrorist activity, other acts of war or hostility and civil unrest have significantly increased the risk of political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate. It is possible that further acts of terrorism or civil unrest may be directed against the United States domestically or abroad, and such acts of terrorism or civil unrest could be directed against properties and personnel of U.S. headquartered companies such as ours. To date, we have not experienced any material adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition as a result of terrorism, political instability, civil unrest or war.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service and other obligations.. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund our operations depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a large extent, is subject to conditions in the oil and natural gas industry, including commodity prices, demand for our services and the prices we are able to charge for our services, general economic and financial conditions, competition in the markets in which we operate, the impact of legislative and regulatory actions on how we conduct our business and other factors, all of which are beyond our control.. Lower levels of offshore exploration and development activity and spending by our customers globally has had a direct and significant impact on our financial performance, financial condition and financial outlook.. We may record additional losses or impairment charges related to our vessels.. We review the vessels in our active fleet for impairment whenever events occur or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset group may not be recoverable and we also perform a review of our stacked vessels not expected to return to active service every six months, or whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a vessel may not be recoverable. We have recorded impairment charges of $484.7 million, $117.3 million and $14.5 million during the years ended March 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. In the event that offshore E&P industry conditions continue to deteriorate, or persist at current levels, the company could be subject to additional vessel impairments in future periods. An impairment loss on our property and equipment exists when the estimated undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition are less than its carrying amount. Any impairment loss recognized represents the excess of the asset's carrying value over the estimated fair value. As part of this analysis, we make assumptions and estimates regarding future market conditions. To the extent actual results do not meet our estimated assumptions we may take an impairment loss in the future. Additionally, there can be no assurance that we will not have to take additional impairment charges in the future if the currently depressed market conditions persist.. The amount of our debt and the covenants in the agreements governing our debt could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects.. As of March 31, 2017, we had $2.04 billion of debt ($2.03 billion, net of deferred debt issue costs of $6.4 million). Our level of indebtedness, and the covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt, could have important consequences for our operations, including:. •  making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under the agreements governing our indebtedness and increasing the risk that we may default on our debt obligations;. •  requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities;. •  requiring that we pledge substantial collateral, including vessels which may limit flexibility in operating our business and restrict our ability to sell assets;. •  limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes and other activities;. •  limiting management's flexibility in operating our business;. •  limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. 28. •  diminishing our ability to successfully withstand a further downturn in our business or further worsening of macroeconomic conditions;. •  placing us at a competitive disadvantage against less leveraged competitors; and making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates, because certain of our debt has variable interest rates or because our current debt is at low fixed interest rates and in exchange for accommodations to our existing debt instruments, debt holders may demand higher interest rates; and. •  limiting our ability to invest in the future in new vessels and to make other capital expenditures.. Our long-term debt instruments are subject to affirmative and negative covenants, including financial ratios and tests, with which we must comply (including a requirement that we comply with a 3.0x minimum interest coverage covenant). These covenants include, among others, covenants that restrict our ability to take certain actions without the permission of the holders of our indebtedness, including the incurrence of debt, the granting of liens, the making of investments and the sale of assets.. On May 17, 2017, the company, along with certain of its domestic subsidiaries, filed voluntary petitions seeking relief under chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. While we anticipate approximately $1.6 billion of indebtedness will be discharged if and when the company emerges from bankruptcy, there is no assurance that the effectiveness of the Prepackaged Plan will occur in July 2017 as expected, or at all. Please see \"Reorganization and Chapter 11 Proceedings\" disclosures in Business in Item 1 of this report for a discussion of the RSA, Forbearance Agreement and the Prepackaged Plan for additional information regarding the potential restructuring of our indebtedness and debt instruments.. Our ability to satisfy required financial covenants, ratios and tests in our debt agreements can be limited by events beyond our control, including continuing low commodity prices, reduced demand for our services, depressed valuations of our assets as well as prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to remain in compliance with such covenants or that the holders of our indebtedness will not seek to assert that we are not in compliance with our covenants. A breach of any of these covenants, ratios or tests could result in a default, which may result in a cross-default of other indebtedness. If we default, our lenders could declare all amounts of outstanding debt together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. The results of such actions would have a significant negative impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. We may not be able to obtain debt financing if and when needed with favorable terms, if at all, which could negatively impact our financial condition.. There are a number of potential negative consequences for the energy and energy services sectors that may result if commodity prices remain depressed or decline or if E&P companies continue to de-prioritize investments in offshore exploration, development and production, including a general outflow of credit and capital from the energy and energy services sectors and/or offshore focused energy and energy service companies, further efforts by lenders to reduce their loan exposure to the energy sector, the imposition of increased lending standards for the energy and energy services sectors, higher borrowing costs and collateral requirements or a refusal to extend new credit or amend existing credit facilities in the energy and energy services sectors. These potential negative consequences may be exacerbated by the pressure exerted on financial institutions by bank regulatory agencies to respond quickly and decisively to credit risk that develops in distressed industries. All of these factors may complicate the ability of borrowers to achieve a favorable outcome in negotiating solutions to even marginally stressed credits.. Future debt financing arrangements, if available at all, may require collateral, higher interest rates and more restrictive terms. Collateral requirements and higher borrowing costs may limit our long- and short-term financial flexibility.. 29. There are uncertainties in successfully integrating our acquisitions which could negatively impact our results of operations.. Although acquisitions have historically been an element of our business strategy, we cannot assure that we will be able to identify and acquire acceptable acquisition candidates on terms favorable to us in the future. We may be required to incur substantial indebtedness or issue equity to finance future acquisitions. Such additional debt service requirements may impose a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition, and any equity issuance could have a dilutive impact on our stockholders. We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully consolidate the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own business. Acquisitions may not perform as expected when the transaction was consummated and may be dilutive to our overall operating results. In addition, our management may not be able to effectively manage a substantially larger business or successfully operate a new line of business.. There are additional risks and uncertainties in successfully entering or growing a new line of business which could negatively impact our results of operations.. Historically, our operations and acquisitions focused primarily on offshore marine vessel services for the oil and gas industry. We have more recently expanded our capability to provide subsea services through the acquisition of employees with specialized subsea skills and ROVs. If an opportunity arises, we may expand our subsea capabilities further or potentially enter into a new line of business. Entry into, or further development of, lines of business in which we have not historically operated may expose us to business and operational risks that are different from those we have experienced historically. Our management may not be able to effectively manage these additional risks or implement successful business strategies in new lines of business. Additionally, our competitors in these lines of business may possess substantially greater operational knowledge, resources and experience than the company.. Any disruptions or disagreements with our foreign joint venture partners could negatively impact our results of operations and could lead to an unwinding of the joint venture which could negatively impact our revenues.. We operate in several foreign areas through joint ventures with local companies, in some cases as a result of local laws requiring local company ownership. While the joint venture partner may provide local knowledge and experience, entering into joint ventures often requires us to surrender a measure of control over the assets and operations devoted to the joint venture, and occasions may arise when we do not agree with the business goals and objectives of our partner, or other factors may arise that make the continuation of the relationship unwise or untenable. Any such disagreements or discontinuation of the relationship could disrupt our operations, put assets dedicated to the joint venture at risk, or affect the continuity of our business. If we are unable to resolve issues with a joint venture partner, we may decide to terminate the joint venture and either locate a different partner and continue to work in the area or seek opportunities for our assets in another market. The unwinding of an existing joint venture could prove to be difficult or time-consuming, and the loss of revenue related to the termination or unwinding of a joint venture and costs related to the sourcing of a new partner or the mobilization of assets to another market could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Please refer to Item 1 and Item 3 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion of our Sonatide joint venture in Angola and our joint venture in Nigeria, respectively.. Our international operations expose us to currency devaluation and fluctuation risk which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial position.. As a global company, our international operations are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks on all charter hire contracts denominated in foreign currencies. For some of our international contracts, a portion of the revenue and local expenses is incurred in local currencies and we are at risk of changes in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies. In some instances, we receive payments in currencies which are not easily traded and may be illiquid. We generally do not hedge against any foreign currency rate fluctuations associated with foreign currency contracts that arise in the normal course of business, which exposes us to the risk of exchange rate losses. Gains and losses from the revaluation of our monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are included in our consolidated statements of operations. Foreign currency fluctuations may cause the U.S. dollar value of our non-U.S. results of operations and net assets to vary with exchange rate fluctuations. This could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial position. In addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to currencies in which the earnings are generated may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations.. 30. To minimize the financial impact of these items, we attempt to contract a significant majority of our services in U.S. dollars and, when feasible, we attempt to not maintain large, non-U.S. dollar-denominated cash balances. In addition, we attempt to minimize the financial impact of these risks by matching the currency of our operating costs with the currency of revenue streams when considered appropriate. We monitor the currency exchange risks associated with all contracts not denominated in U.S. dollars.. As of March 31, 2017, Sonatide maintained the equivalent of approximately $90 million of Angolan kwanza-denominated deposits in Angolan banks, largely related to customer receipts that had not yet been converted to U.S. dollars, expatriated and then remitted to us. A devaluation in the Angolan kwanza relative to the U.S. dollar would result in foreign exchange losses for Sonatide to the extent the Angolan kwanza-denominated asset balances were in excess of kwanza-denominated liabilities, 49% of which will be borne by us. Sonatide may be able to mitigate this exposure, but a hypothetical ten percent devaluation of the kwanza relative to the U.S. dollar on a net kwanza-denominated asset balance of $100 million would cause our equity in net earnings of unconsolidated companies to be reduced by $4.9 million.. Our insurance coverage and contractual indemnity protections may not be sufficient to protect us under all circumstances or against all risks which could negatively impact our results of operations.. Our operations are subject to the hazards inherent in the offshore oilfield business. These include blowouts, explosions, fires, collisions, capsizings, sinkings, groundings and severe weather conditions. Some of these events could be the result of (or exacerbated by) mechanical failure or navigation or operational errors. These hazards could result in personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment (including to the property and equipment of third parties), pollution or environmental damage and suspension of operations, increased costs and loss of business. Damages arising from such occurrences may result in lawsuits alleging large claims, and we may incur substantial liabilities or losses as a result of these hazards.. Our exposure to operating hazards may increase significantly with the expansion of our subsea operations, including through the ownership and operation of ROVs and the provision of engineering design and consulting services for customers' subsea initiatives. For example, we may lose equipment, including ROVs, in the course of our subsea operations. This equipment may be difficult or costly to replace, and such losses may result in work stoppages or the loss of customers. Additionally, many of our subsea operations will be performed on or near existing oil and gas infrastructure. These operations may expose us to new or increased liability relating to explosions, blowouts and cratering; mechanical problems, including pipe failure; and environmental accidents, including oil spills, gas leaks or ruptures, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas, brine or well fluids, or other discharges of toxic gases or other pollutants. Finally, provision of engineering design and consulting services could expose us to professional liability for errors and omissions made in the course of those services.. We carry what we consider to be prudent levels of liability insurance, and our vessels and ROVs are generally insured for their estimated market value against damage or loss, including war, terrorism acts and pollution risks. While we maintain insurance protection and seek to obtain indemnity agreements from our customers requiring the customers to hold us harmless from some of these risks, our insurance and contractual indemnity protection may not be sufficient or effective to protect us under all circumstances or against all risks. Our insurance coverages are subject to deductibles and certain exclusions. We do not directly or fully insure for business interruption. The occurrence of a significant event not fully insured or indemnified against or the failure of a customer to meet its indemnification obligations to us could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, while we believe that we should be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates considered commercially acceptable, we cannot guarantee that such insurance will continue to be available at commercially acceptable rates given the markets in which we operate.. Any determination that we have not complied with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar worldwide anti-bribery laws could negatively impact our results of operations.. Our global operations require us to comply with a number of U.S. and international laws and regulations, including those involving anti-bribery and anti-corruption. As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or obtaining an improper business benefit. We have adopted proactive procedures to promote compliance with the FCPA, but we may be held liable for actions taken by local partners or agents even though these partners or agents may themselves not be subject to the FCPA. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA (or any other applicable anti-bribery laws in countries in which we do business) could have a material adverse effect on our business and business reputation, as well as our results of operations, and cash flows.. 31. Any determination that we have not complied and any changes to complex and developing laws and regulations to which the company is subject could negatively impact our results of operations.. Our operations are subject to many complex and burdensome laws and regulations. Stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing worker health and safety and the manning, construction and operation of vessels significantly affect our operations. Many aspects of the marine industry are subject to extensive governmental regulation by the United States Coast Guard, the United States Customs and Border Protection, and their foreign equivalents; as well as to standards imposed by private industry organizations such as the American Bureau of Shipping, the Oil Companies International Marine Forum, and the International Marine Contractors Association.. Further, many of the countries in which we operate have laws, regulations and enforcement systems that are less well developed than the laws, regulations and enforcement systems of the United States, and the requirements of these systems are not always readily discernible even to experienced and proactive participants. These countries' laws can be unclear, and, the application and enforcement of these laws and regulations can be unpredictable and subject to frequent change or reinterpretation.  Sometimes governments may apply such changes or reinterpretations with retroactive effect, and may impose associated taxes, fees, fines or penalties on the company based on that reinterpretation or retroactive effect. While we endeavor to comply with applicable laws and regulations, our compliance efforts might not always be wholly successful, and failure to comply may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions, imposition of remedial obligations or the suspension or termination of our operations. These laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, others, including charterers or third party agents. Moreover, these laws and regulations could be changed or be interpreted in new, unexpected ways that substantially increase costs that we may not be able to pass along to our customers. Any changes in laws, regulations or standards imposing additional requirements or restrictions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Any changes in the laws governing U.S. taxation of foreign source income could negatively impact our financial condition and cash flows.. We operate globally through various subsidiaries which are subject to changes in applicable tax laws, treaties or regulations in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, including laws or policies directed toward companies organized in jurisdictions with low tax rates. We determine our income tax expense based on our interpretation of the applicable tax laws and regulations in effect in each jurisdiction for the period during which we operate and earn income. A material change in the tax laws, tax treaties, regulations or accounting principles, or interpretation thereof, in one or more countries in which we conduct business, or in which we are incorporated or a resident of, could result in a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings, and such change could be significant to our financial results. In addition, our overall effective tax rate could be adversely and suddenly affected by lower than anticipated earnings in countries with lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries with higher statutory rates, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities.. Approximately 80% of our revenues and a majority of our net income are generated by our operations outside of the United States. Our effective tax rate has averaged approximately 30% since fiscal 2007, primarily a result of the passage of The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which excluded from our current taxable income in the U.S. income earned offshore through our controlled foreign subsidiaries.. Periodically, tax legislative initiatives are proposed to effectively increase U.S. taxation of income with respect to foreign operations. Whether any such initiatives will win congressional or executive approval and become law is presently unknown; however, if any such initiatives were to become law, and were such law to apply to our international operations, it could result in a materially higher tax expense, which would have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and which could cause us to review the utility of continued U.S. domicile.. In addition, our income tax returns are subject to review and examination by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities where tax returns are filed. We routinely evaluate the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. We do not recognize the benefit of income tax positions we believe are more likely than not to be disallowed upon challenge by a tax authority. If any tax authority successfully challenges our operational structure or intercompany transfer pricing policies, or if the terms of certain income tax treaties were to be interpreted in a manner that is adverse to our structure, or if we lose a material tax dispute in any country, our effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings could increase, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. 32. Any changes in environmental regulations could increase the cost of energy and future production of oil and gas which could negatively impact our results of operations.. Our operations are subject to federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that control the discharge of pollutants into the environment or otherwise relate to environmental protection. Compliance with such laws and regulations may require installation of costly equipment, increased manning or operational changes. Some environmental laws impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault.. A variety of regulatory developments, proposals and requirements have been introduced (and in some cases enacted) in the U.S. and various other countries that are focused on restricting the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other gases. Notwithstanding the current downturn in the oil industry punctuated by lessened demand and lower oil prices, any such regulations could ultimately result in the increased cost of energy as well as environmental and other costs, and capital expenditures could be necessary to comply with the limitations. These developments may have an adverse effect on future production and demand for hydrocarbons such as crude oil and natural gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our offshore support vessels, ROVs and other assets, which are highly dependent on the level of activity in offshore oil and natural gas exploration, development and production markets.  In addition, the increased regulation of environmental emissions may create greater incentives for the use of alternative energy sources. Unless and until regulations are implemented and their effects are known, we cannot reasonably or reliably estimate their impact on our financial condition, results of operations and ability to compete. However, any long term material adverse effect on the crude oil and natural gas industry may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Adoption of climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions could increase the cost of energy and future production of oil and gas which could negatively impact our results of operations.. Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of countries have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These include adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, restrictive permitting, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. These requirements could make our customer's products more expensive and reduce demand for hydrocarbons, as well as shift hydrocarbon demand toward relatively lower-carbon sources such as natural gas, any of which may reduce demand for our services.. Additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining agreements or work stoppages could negatively impact our revenues.. In locations in which the company is required to do so, we have union workers, subject to collective bargaining agreements, that are periodically in negotiation. These negotiations could result in higher personnel expenses, other increased costs, or increased operational restrictions. Further, efforts have been made from time to time to unionize other portions of our workforce, including our U.S. GOM employees. We have also been subjected to threatened strikes or work stoppages and other labor disruptions in certain countries. Additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining agreements or work stoppages could materially increase our costs and operating restrictions, reduce our revenues, or limit our flexibility.. The closing market price of our common stock has recently declined significantly. On April 18, 2017, we were notified by the NYSE that our common stock was not in compliance with NYSE listing standards. If we are unable to cure the market capitalization deficiency, our common stock could be delisted from the NYSE or trading could be suspended.. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE. In order for our common stock to continue to be listed on the NYSE, we are required to comply with various listing standards, including the maintenance of a minimum average closing price of at least $1.00 per share during a consecutive 30 trading-day period. On April 18, 2017, we were notified by the NYSE that the average price of our shares of common stock had fallen below $1.00 per share over a period of 30 consecutive trading days.. Additionally, under Section 802.01D of the NYSE Listed Company Manual, a company that files or announces an intent to file for relief under chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code may be subject to immediate suspension and delisting. However, if we are profitable or have positive cash flow, or if we are demonstrably in sound financial health despite the bankruptcy proceedings, the NYSE may evaluate our plan in light of the filing without immediate suspension and delisting of our common stock. We have been in active communication with the NYSE throughout this process and, to date, we have continued to trade on the NYSE.. 33. In addition to potentially commencing suspension or delisting procedures in respect of our common stock if we fail to meet the material aspects of the plan or any of the quarterly milestones or if we file for bankruptcy and do not have positive cash flow or are not in sound financial health, our common stock could be delisted pursuant to Section 802.01 of the NYSE Listed Company Manual if the trading price of our common stock on the NYSE is abnormally low, which has generally been interpreted to mean at levels below $0.16 per share, and our common stock could also be delisted pursuant to Section 802.01 if our average market capitalization over a consecutive 30 day-trading period is less than $15 million. In these events, we would not have an opportunity to cure the market capitalization deficiency, and our shares would be delisted immediately and suspended from trading on the NYSE.. The commencement of suspension or delisting procedures by an exchange remains, at all times, at the discretion of such exchange and would be publicly announced by the exchange. If a suspension or delisting were to occur, there would be significantly less liquidity in the suspended or delisted securities. In addition, our ability to attract and retain personnel by means of equity compensation would be greatly impaired. Furthermore, with respect to any suspended or delisted securities, we would expect decreases in institutional and other investor demand, analyst coverage, market making activity and information available concerning trading prices and volume, and fewer broker-dealers would be willing to execute trades with respect to such securities. A suspension or delisting would likely decrease the attractiveness of our common stock to investors and cause the trading volume of our common stock to decline, which could result in a further decline in the market price of our common stock.. Additional issuances of equity securities by us would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders and could reduce our earnings per share.. The Prepackaged Plan provides, among other things, that upon emergence from bankruptcy, our existing common stock will be cancelled and (i) the Noteholders will receive their pro rata share of 95% of the common stock in reorganized Tidewater and (ii) existing holders of common stock in Tidewater will receive their pro rata share of 5% of the common stock in reorganized Tidewater, plus warrants for ownership of up to 15% of reorganized Tidewater's common equity exercisable upon the company reaching certain benchmarks pursuant to the terms of the proposed new warrants. Each of the foregoing common equity percentages in reorganized Tidewater is subject to dilution from the exercise of the new warrants described above and a management incentive plan.. Additionally, we may issue equity in the future in connection with capital raisings, debt exchanges, acquisitions, strategic transactions or for other purposes. To the extent we issue substantial additional equity securities, the ownership of our existing stockholders would be diluted, and our earnings per share could be reduced."
