[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. As is the case for any retailer, the Company's success in achieving its objectives and expectations is dependent upon general economic conditions, competitive conditions and consumer attitudes. However, certain factors are specific to the Company and/or the markets in which it operates. The following \"risk factors\" are specific to the Company; these risk factors affect the likelihood that the Company will achieve the objectives and expectations communicated by management:. (i) Challenging global economic conditions and related low levels of consumer confidence over a prolonged period of time could adversely affect the Company's sales and earnings.. As a retailer of goods which are discretionary purchases, the Company's sales results are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence. Consumer confidence is affected by general business conditions; political uncertainties and/or developments; changes in the market value of equity securities and real estate; inflation; interest rates and the availability of consumer credit; tax rates; and expectations of future economic conditions and employment prospects.. Consumer spending for discretionary goods generally declines during times of falling consumer confidence, which negatively affects the Company's sales and earnings.. Certain competitors may react to such conditions by reducing retail prices and promoting such reductions; such reductions and/or inventory liquidations can have a short-term adverse effect on the Company's sales, especially given the Company's policy of not engaging in price promotional activity.. The Company has invested in and operates a significant number of stores in Greater China and anticipates continuing to do so. Any slowdown in the Chinese economy could have a negative impact on the sales and profitability of stores in Greater China as well as stores in other markets that serve Chinese tourists.. Uncertainty surrounding the current global economic environment makes it more difficult for the Company to forecast operating results. The Company's forecasts employ the use of estimates and assumptions. Actual results could differ from forecasts, and those differences could be material.. (ii) Sales may decline or remain flat in the Company's fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the Holiday selling season.. The Company's business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing approximately one-third of annual net sales and a higher percentage of annual net earnings. Poor sales results during the fourth quarter would have an adverse effect on annual earnings and inventories in the short term.. TIFFANY & CO.. K-11. Table of Contents. (iii) The Company conducts operations globally, the risks of which could increase its costs, reduce its profits or disrupt its business.. The Company operates globally and generates a majority of its worldwide net sales outside the United States. It also has both U.S. and foreign manufacturing operations, and relies on certain U.S. and foreign third-party vendors and suppliers. In addition, the Company maintains investments in, and has provided loans to, certain foreign suppliers. As a result, the Company is subject to the risks of doing business globally, including:. • the laws, regulations and policies of governments relating to investments, loans and operations, the costs or desirability of complying with local practices and customs and the impact of various anti-corruption and other laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad;. • uncertainties from changes in U.S. or foreign taxation policies, including, for example, as a result of recent revisions to the U.S. tax code;. • compliance by third party vendors and suppliers with the Company's sourcing and quality standards, codes of conduct, or contractual requirements as well as applicable laws and regulations;. • import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in regulatory requirements;. • political or economic instability in foreign countries, including the potential for rapid and unexpected changes in government, economic and political policies (including diplomatic and trade relations or agreements with other countries), political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or U.S. anti-boycott legislation  -  as a result of, for example, (1) the United Kingdom's (\"U.K.\") referendum vote to exit the European Union (\"E.U.\"), as discussed below, or (2) changes in government policies resulting from the change in the U.S. Presidential administration in 2017;. • challenges inherent in oversight of foreign operations, systems and controls;. • potential negative consequences from foreign governments' currency management practices;. • uncertainties as to enforcement of certain contract and other rights; and. • inventory risk exposures.. In June 2016, voters in the U.K. approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the E.U., commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" Negotiations have commenced to determine the U.K.'s future relationship with the E.U., including terms of trade. However, there can be no assurance regarding the duration of such negotiations or the terms thereof. A withdrawal could significantly disrupt the free movement of goods, services, and people between the U.K. and the E.U., and result in increased legal and regulatory complexities, as well as potential higher costs of conducting business in Europe. There may be similar referendums or votes in other European countries in which the Company does business. The uncertainty surrounding the terms of the U.K.'s withdrawal and its consequences, as well as the impact of any similar circumstances that may arise elsewhere in Europe, could increase the Company's costs and adversely impact consumer and investor confidence, and the level of consumer discretionary purchases, including purchases of the Company's products.. While these factors and the effect of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could lower the Company's revenues, increase its costs, reduce its earnings or disrupt its business.. (iv) Recent revisions to the U.S. tax code, including changes in the guidance related to, or interpretation and application of, such revisions could materially affect the Company's tax obligations, provision for income taxes and effective tax rate.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the 2017 U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"2017 Tax Act\"), which significantly affected U.S. tax law by changing how the U.S. imposes income tax on U.S. taxpayers. In particular, these changes impact the U.S. taxation of earnings in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates, the measurement of its deferred tax assets and liabilities and the Company's plans to repatriate the earnings of its non-U.S. subsidiaries to the U.S. The provisions of the 2017 Tax Act will likely be subject to further interpretation by the Internal Revenue Service, which has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how the Company will apply such provisions.. Changes in tax law are accounted for in the period of enactment. As a result, the Company's 2017 consolidated financial statements reflect provisional estimates of the immediate tax effect of the 2017 Tax Act. As the Company. TIFFANY & CO.. K-12. Table of Contents. refines its provisional estimate calculations, further analyzes provisions of the 2017 Tax Act and any subsequent guidance related thereto, these provisional estimates could be affected, which could have a material impact on the Company's future financial results, including its fiscal 2018 results (see \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis - 2018 Outlook\"). Additionally, further regulatory or GAAP accounting guidance regarding the 2017 Tax Act could also materially affect the Company's future financial results.. (v) A strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies would negatively affect the Company's sales and profitability.. The Company operates retail stores in more than 20 countries outside of the U.S. and, as a result, is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including, among others, the Japanese Yen, Euro, British Pound and Chinese Yuan. In 2017, sales in countries outside of the U.S. in aggregate represented a substantial portion of the Company's net sales and earnings from operations. A strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies would require the Company to raise its retail prices in various locations outside of the U.S. in order to maintain its worldwide relative pricing structure, or reduce its profit margins. Consumers in those markets may not accept significant price increases on the Company's goods; thus, there is a risk that a strengthening of the U.S. dollar would result in reduced sales and profitability. In addition, a weakening of any foreign currency relative to other currencies may negatively affect spending by foreign tourists in the various regions where the Company operates retail stores which would adversely affect its net sales and profitability.. The reported results of operations of the Company's international subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into U.S. dollars during the process of financial statement consolidation. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency-denominated transactions would decrease consolidated net sales and profitability. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\" for a discussion of such impacts.. (vi) Political activities, regional instability and/or conflict or similar events could disrupt tourist travel and local consumer spending.. Regional and global conflicts or crises, such as military actions, terrorist activities and natural disasters, geopolitical or regulatory developments (and any related protests) and other similar events and conditions in the various regions and cities where the Company operates retail stores may negatively affect spending by both foreign tourists and local consumers. The Company's retail stores, many of which are located in major metropolitan areas globally, may in fact have close proximity to the locations of such events  -  for example, the Company's New York Flagship store is located adjacent to a private residence of the U.S. President which has, at times, impacted consumer access as a result of security measures. The occurrence of the types of events or conditions described above, or the related effect of security measures implemented to address the possibility of such occurrences, could affect consumer traffic and/or spending in one or more of the Company's locations, which could adversely affect the Company's sales and earnings. While sales in the Company's largest store (the New York Flagship) represent less than 10% of worldwide net sales, the impact of significant sales declines in any one store could still be meaningful to consolidated results.. (vii) Changes in the Company's product or geographic sales mix could affect the Company's profitability.. The Company sells an extensive selection of jewelry and other merchandise at a wide range of retail price points that yield different gross profit margins. Additionally, the Company's geographic regions achieve different operating profit margins due to a variety of factors including product mix, store size and occupancy costs, labor costs, retail pricing and fixed versus variable expenses. The increasing availability of, and ease of access to, retail price information across markets, primarily through the Internet, may affect consumers' decisions regarding in which geographies to shop. If the Company's sales mix were to shift toward products or geographic regions that are significantly different than the Company's plans, it could have an effect, either positively or negatively, on its expected profitability.. (viii) Increases in costs of diamonds, other gemstones and precious metals or reduced supply availability may adversely affect the Company's ability to produce and sell products at desired profit margins.. Most of the Company's jewelry offerings are made with diamonds, other gemstones and/or precious metals. A significant increase in the costs or change in the supply of these commodities could adversely affect the Company's business, which is vulnerable to the risks inherent in the trade for such commodities. A substantial increase or. TIFFANY & CO.. K-13. Table of Contents. decrease in the cost or supply of precious metals, high-quality rough and polished diamonds (within the quality grades, colors and sizes that customers demand) and/or other gemstones could affect, negatively or positively, customer demand, sales and gross profit margins. Additionally, should synthetic diamonds (diamonds manufactured but not naturally occurring) and/or treated diamonds (naturally occurring diamonds subject to treatment processes, such as irradiation) be offered in significant quantities and gain consumer acceptance, the supply of, demand for and prices for natural diamonds may be affected.. (ix) The Company may be unable to secure and retain sufficient space for its retail stores in prime locations, and maintaining the Company's brand image and desirability to consumers requires significant investment in store construction, maintenance and periodic renovation.. The Company, positioned as a luxury goods retailer, has established its retail presence in choice store locations. Management regularly evaluates opportunities to optimize its retail store base, including potential markets for new TIFFANY & CO. stores, as well as the renovation and relocation of its existing stores. Maintaining the Company's brand image and desirability to consumers requires that stores be constructed and maintained in a manner consistent with that brand image. This requires significant capital investment, including for periodic renovations of existing stores. Renovations of existing stores may also result in temporary disruptions to an individual store's business. For example, the Company is in the conceptual phase of a multi-year effort to renovate its New York Flagship store, which will require significant capital investment and may result in business and/or consumer traffic disruptions to that store, once such renovations begin. If the Company cannot secure and retain store locations on suitable terms in prime and desired luxury shopping locations, or if its investments to construct and/or renovate existing stores do not generate sufficient incremental sales and/or profitability or significantly disrupt sales and/or profitability during renovations, the Company's sales and/or earnings performance could be jeopardized.. (x) The value of the TIFFANY & CO. and TIFFANY trademarks could decline due to third-party use and infringement.. The TIFFANY & CO. and TIFFANY trademarks are assets that are essential to the competitiveness and success of the Company's business, and the Company takes appropriate action to protect them. The Company actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit TIFFANY & CO. goods through civil action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. However, use of the designation TIFFANY by third parties on related goods or services and the Company's failure or inability to protect against such use could adversely affect and dilute the value of the TIFFANY & CO. brand.. Notwithstanding the general success of the Company's enforcement actions, such actions have not stopped the imitation and counterfeiting of the Company's merchandise or the infringement of the trademark, and counterfeit TIFFANY & CO. goods remain available in most markets. In recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, on the Internet and in various markets by street vendors and small retailers. The continued sale of counterfeit merchandise or merchandise that infringes the Company's trademarks could have an adverse effect on the TIFFANY & CO. brand by undermining the Company's reputation for quality goods and making such goods appear less desirable to consumers of luxury goods. Damage to the TIFFANY & CO. brand could result in lost sales and earnings.. (xi) The Company's business is dependent upon the distinctive appeal of the TIFFANY & CO. brand.. The TIFFANY & CO. brand's association with quality and luxury is integral to the success of the Company's business. The Company's expansion plans for retail, e-commerce and other direct selling operations and merchandise development, production and management support the appeal of the TIFFANY & CO. brand. Consequently, poor maintenance, promotion and positioning of the TIFFANY & CO. brand, as well as market over-saturation, may adversely affect the business by diminishing the distinctive appeal of the TIFFANY & CO. brand and tarnishing its image. This could result in lower sales and earnings.. In addition, adverse publicity regarding TIFFANY & CO. and its products, as well as adverse publicity in respect of, or resulting from, the Company's third-party vendors or the diamond or jewelry industries more generally, could adversely affect the Company's business. For example, the Company sources from third-party vendors certain products that, from time to time, may not, or may contain raw materials that do not, meet the Company's sourcing and quality standards as well as applicable requirements and regulations. In such instances, although the Company may have recourse against such third-party vendors, the Company may self-report to the relevant regulatory agencies, recall affected products and/or pay potential fines. By way of further example, during the Company's regular internal. TIFFANY & CO.. K-14. Table of Contents. quality testing in 2016, the Company identified a potential breach of the Company's sourcing and quality standards applicable to third party vendors. The Company assessed the composition of certain of its gold products manufactured primarily by certain U.S. third-party vendors, which contained gold solder manufactured by other U.S. vendors, to determine whether such products were in compliance with applicable consumer products requirements and regulations. Following this assessment, management determined that no liability was required to be recorded.. Any of the above could harm the TIFFANY & CO. brand and reputation, cause a loss of consumer confidence in the TIFFANY & CO. brand, its products and the industry, and/or negatively affect the Company's results of operations.. The considerable expansion in the use of social media in recent years has compounded the potential scope of any negative publicity.. (xii) Any material disruption of, or a failure to successfully implement or make changes to, information systems could negatively impact the Company's business.. The Company is increasingly dependent on its information systems to operate its business, including in designing, manufacturing, marketing and distributing its products, as well as processing transactions, managing inventory and accounting for and reporting its results. Given the complexity of the Company's global business, it is critical that the Company maintain the uninterrupted operation of its information systems. Despite the Company's preventative efforts, its information systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruption or shutdown due to power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, systems failures, security breaches or natural disasters. Damage, disruption or shutdown of the Company's information systems may require a significant investment to fix or replace them, and the Company could suffer interruptions in its operations in the interim.. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, the Company regularly evaluates and makes changes and upgrades to its information systems. The Company is in the process of executing its multi-year effort to evaluate and, where appropriate, to upgrade and/or replace certain of its information systems, including systems for global customer relationship management, order management and inventory management. These system changes and upgrades can require significant capital investments and dedication of resources. While the Company follows a disciplined methodology when evaluating and making such changes, there can be no assurances that the Company will successfully implement such changes, that such changes will occur without disruptions to its operations or that the new or upgraded systems will achieve the desired business objectives. For example, in 2016 the Company recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $25.4 million related to software costs capitalized in connection with the development of a new finished goods inventory management and merchandising information system. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Information Systems Assessment\" for a discussion of this impairment charge.. Any damage, disruption or shutdown of the Company's information systems, or the failure to successfully implement new or upgraded systems, such as those referenced above, could have a direct material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, could undermine the Company's ability to execute on its strategic and operational initiatives, and could also affect the Company's reputation, its ability to compete effectively, its relationship with customers and the TIFFANY & CO. brand, which could result in reduced sales and profitability.. (xiii) New and existing data privacy laws and/or a significant data security breach of the Company's information systems could increase the Company's operational costs, subject the Company to claims and otherwise adversely affect its business.. The protection of customer, employee and Company information is important to the Company, and its customers and employees expect that their personal data will be adequately protected. In addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security and data privacy is becoming increasingly demanding, with evolving requirements in respect of personal data use and processing, including significant penalties for non-compliance, in the various jurisdictions in which the Company does business. Although the Company has developed and implemented systems, policies, procedures and controls that are designed to protect personal data and Company information, prevent data loss and other security breaches, and otherwise identify, assess and analyze cybersecurity risks, such measures cannot provide absolute security. For example, the Company faces a complex and evolving threat landscape in which cybercriminals, nation-states and \"hacktivists\" employ a complex array of techniques designed to access personal data and other information, including the use of stolen access credentials, malware, ransomware, phishing, structured query language (\"SQL\") injection attacks and distributed denial-of-service attacks, which may penetrate. TIFFANY & CO.. K-15. Table of Contents. the Company's systems despite its extensive and evolving protective information security measures.  Further, the Company relies on its software and hardware providers to issue timely patches for known vulnerabilities; however, the failure of software and hardware companies to release or to timely release effective patching and the Company's reliance on patches or inability to patch software and hardware vulnerabilities, could expose it to increased risk of attack, data loss and data breach.. Additionally, the Company's implementation of new information technology or information systems and/or increased use and reliance on web-based hosted (i.e., cloud computing) applications and systems for the storage, processing and transmission of information, including customer and employee personal data, could expose the Company, its employees and its customers to a risk of loss or misuse of such information. The Company's efforts to protect personal data and Company information may also be adversely impacted by data security or privacy breaches that occur at its third-party vendors. While the Company's contractual arrangements with such third-party vendors provide for the protection of personal data and Company information, the Company cannot control these vendors or their systems and cannot guarantee that a data security or privacy breach of their systems will not occur in the future.. A significant violation of applicable privacy laws or the occurrence of a cybersecurity incident resulting in breach of personal data or Company information could result in the temporary suspension of some or all of the Company's operating and/or information systems, damage the Company's reputation, its relationships with customers, vendors and service providers and the TIFFANY & CO. brand and could result in lost data, lost sales, sizable fines, increased insurance premiums, substantial breach-notification and other remediation costs and lawsuits as well as adversely affect results of operations. The Company may also incur additional costs in the future related to the implementation of additional security measures to protect against new or enhanced data security and privacy threats, to comply with state, federal and international laws that may be enacted to address personal data processing risks and data security threats or to investigate or address potential or actual data security or privacy breaches.. (xiv) The loss or a prolonged disruption in the operation of the Company's centralized distribution centers could adversely affect its business and operations.. The Company maintains two separate distribution centers in close proximity to one another in New Jersey. Both are dedicated to warehousing merchandise; one handles worldwide store replenishment and the other processes direct-to-customer orders. Although the Company believes that it has appropriate contingency plans, unforeseen disruptions impacting one or both locations for a prolonged period of time may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to stores or in fulfilling customer orders.. (xv) The loss or a prolonged disruption in the operation of the Company's internal manufacturing facilities could adversely affect its business and operations.. The Company's internal manufacturing facilities produce approximately 60% of the merchandise sold by the Company. Any prolonged disruption to their operations would require the Company to seek alternate sources of production and could have a negative effect on inventory availability and sales until such sources are established.. (xvi) There is no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully grow its watch business.. The Company sells TIFFANY & CO. brand watches, which are designed, produced, marketed and distributed through certain of the Company's Swiss subsidiaries. Sales of these TIFFANY & CO. brand watches represented approximately 1% of worldwide net sales in 2017, 2016 and 2015. The development of this watch business has required and will continue to require additional resources and involves risks and uncertainties, including: (i) significant ongoing expenditures; (ii) the need to employ highly specialized and experienced personnel; (iii) dependence on relatively small supply partners; and (iv) production and distribution inefficiencies. In addition, the Company is competing with businesses with stronger market positions and has invested and will continue to invest in marketing to build customer awareness and to establish product differentiation. There is, however, no assurance that the Company will be able to effectively grow its watch business or that such business will be successful in growing the Company's revenues or enhancing its profitability.. TIFFANY & CO.. K-16. Table of Contents. (xvii) If the Company is unable to effectively anticipate and respond to changes in consumer preferences and shopping patterns, or introduce new products or programs that appeal to new or existing customers, the Company's sales and profitability could be adversely affected.. The Company's continued success depends on its ability to anticipate and respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to changes in consumer preferences for jewelry and other luxury goods, attitudes towards the global jewelry industry as a whole, as well as the manner and locations in which consumers purchase such goods. The Company recognizes that consumer tastes cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change, which is compounded by the expanding use of digital and social media by consumers and the speed by which information and opinions are shared. The Company's product development strategy is to introduce new design collections, primarily jewelry, and/or expand certain existing collections annually. If the Company is unable to anticipate and respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to changes in consumer preferences and shopping patterns, including the development of an engaging omnichannel experience for its customers, the Company's sales and profitability could be adversely affected.. In addition, management intends to increase its spending in a number of areas, including technology, marketing communications, visual merchandising, digital, and store presentations, which it believes are necessary to achieve its longer term sales, margin and earnings growth objectives. Such investment is also intended to build awareness of the Brand, its heritage and its products, as well as to enhance the Brand's association among consumers with quality and luxury. There can, however, be no assurance these strategies will appeal to new or existing customers or will result in increased sales or profitability.. Lastly, approximately 75% of the Company's stores are located within luxury department stores and shopping malls and benefit from the ability of those locations to generate consumer traffic. A substantial decline in department store and/or mall traffic may negatively impact the Company's ability to maintain or increase its sales in existing stores, as well as its ability to open new stores.. (xviii) The price of the Company's common stock may periodically rise or fall based on the Company's achievement of earnings forecasts and investors' expectations.. The Company's strategic planning process is designed to maximize its long-term strength, growth, and profitability. Management believes that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. At the same time, however, the Company recognizes that, from time to time, it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to management's annual earnings forecast. If, or when, the Company announces actual results that differ from those that have been forecast by management or others, the market price of the Company's common stock could be adversely affected.. The Company returns value to its stockholders through common stock share repurchases and payment of quarterly cash dividends. The market price of the Company's common stock could be adversely affected if the Company's share repurchase activity and/or cash dividend rate differs from investors' expectations.. (xix) Recent changes in the Company's executive management team may be disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, its business, results of operations and the price of the Company's common stock.. Certain members of the Company's executive management team have left the Company in recent years, which has required the Company to focus time and resources on recruiting new members of its executive management team. For example, in February 2017, Frederic Cumenal stepped down from his position as Chief Executive Officer (\"CEO\") of the Company, and the Company's Board of Directors appointed Michael J. Kowalski (Chairman of the Board and former CEO at the time of appointment) as the Company's Interim CEO. In October 2017, Alessandro Bogliolo joined the Company as CEO replacing Mr. Kowalski, who stepped down from that role. Any further changes in the Company's executive management team may be disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, the Company's business, and could have a negative impact on the Company's ability to manage and grow its business effectively, its results of operations and the price of the Company's common stock.. TIFFANY & CO.. K-17. Table of Contents. (xx) Environmental and climate changes could affect the Company's business.. The Company operates retail stores in more than 20 countries and has both domestic and foreign manufacturing operations that are susceptible to the risks associated with climate change. Such risks include those related to the physical impacts of climate change, such as more frequent and severe weather events and/or long term shifts in climate patterns, and risks related to the transition to a lower-carbon economy, such as reputational, market and/or regulatory risks. Climate change and climate events could result in social, cultural and economic disruptions in these areas, including supply chain disruptions, the disruption of local infrastructure and transportation systems that could limit the ability of the Company's employees and/or its customers to access the Company's stores or manufacturing locations, damage to such stores or locations or reductions in material availability and quality. These events could also compound adverse economic conditions and impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending. Despite the fact that the Company is pursuing numerous initiatives to reduce its environmental footprint, including efforts related to energy efficiency, renewable energy use and carbon offsets, there remains the risk that insufficient global cooperation could lead to increased negative impacts from climate change. While the Company has an ongoing program for reviewing its vulnerability to the impacts of severe weather events and other risks associated with climate change, these events could nonetheless negatively affect the Company's business and operations."
