[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. We assume and manage a certain degree of risk in order to conduct our business strategy.  In addition to the risk factors described below, other risks and uncertainties not specifically mentioned, or that are currently known to, or deemed to be immaterial. 34. by management, also may materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows.  Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC.  If any of the circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occur to a significant degree, the value of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.. Our business may be adversely affected by downturns in the national economy and in the economies in our market areas.. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the state of Washington.  A decline in the economies of our local market areas of Grays Harbor, Pierce, Thurston, King, Kitsap and Lewis counties in which we operate, and which we consider to be our primary market areas, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Weakness in the global economy has adversely affected many businesses operating in our markets that are dependent upon international trade and it is not known how the recent withdrawal by the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement may also affect these businesses.. While real estate values and unemployment rates have recently improved, a deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations:. • loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase;. • the sale of foreclosed assets may slow;. • demand for our products and services may decline possibly resulting in a decrease in our total loans or assets;. • collateral for loans made may decline further in value, exposing us to increased risk loans, reducing customers' borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans;. • the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us; and. • the amount of our low-cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease and the composition of our deposits may be adversely affected.. A decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loans are geographically diverse.  If we are required to liquidate a significant amount of collateral during a period of reduced real estate values, our financial condition and profitability could be adversely affected.. A return of recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. A return of recessionary conditions and/or negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability.  Declines in real estate values and sales volumes and high unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies and a decline in demand for our products and services.  These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity, and financial condition.. Our real estate construction loans expose us to significant risks.. We make real estate construction loans to individuals and builders, primarily for the construction of residential properties. We originate these loans whether or not the collateral property underlying the loan is under contract for sale.  At September 30, 2017, construction loans totaled $168.5 million, or 21.5% of our total loan portfolio, of which $148.9 million were for residential real estate projects.  This compares to total construction loans of $123.1 million, or 17.0% of our total loan portfolio at September 30, 2016, or an increase of 36.9% during the past year.  Approximately $117.6 million of our residential construction loans at September 30, 2017 were made to finance the construction of owner-occupied homes and are structured to be converted to permanent loans at the end of the construction phase.  In general, construction lending involves additional risks because funds are advanced upon estimates of costs in relation to values associated with the completed project.  Construction lending involves additional risks when compared with permanent residential lending because funds are advances upon the collateral for the project based on an estimate of costs that will produce a future value at completion.  Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the complete project and the effects of governmental regulation on real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the completed project loan-to-value ratio.  Changes in demand for new housing and higher than anticipated building costs may cause actual results to vary significantly from those estimated.  For these reasons, this type of lending also typically involves higher loan principal amounts. 35. and may be concentrated with a small number of builders.  A downturn in housing, or the real estate market, could increase delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure.  Some of the builders we deal with have more than one loan outstanding with us.  Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss.  In addition during the term of some of our construction loans, no payment from the borrower is required since the accumulated interest is added to the principal of the loan through an interest reserve.  As a result, these loans often involve the disbursement of funds with repayment substantially dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or obtain permanent take-out financing, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest.  If our appraisal of the value of a completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project and may incur a loss.  Because construction loans require active monitoring of the building process, including cost comparisons and on-site inspections, these loans are more difficult and costly to monitor.  Increases in market rates of interest may have a more pronounced effect on construction loans by rapidly increasing the end-purchaser's borrowing costs, thereby possibly reducing the homeowner's ability to finance the home upon completion or the overall demand for the project.  Properties under construction are often difficult to sell and typically must be completed in order to be successfully sold which also complicates the process of working our problem construction loans.  This may require us to advance additional funds and/or contract with another builder to complete construction and assume the market risk of selling the project at a future market price, which may or may not enable us to fully recover unpaid loan funds and associated construction and liquidation costs.  Furthermore, in the case of speculative construction loans, there is the added risk associated with identifying an end-purchaser for the finished project.  At September 30, 2017, $9.9 million of our construction portfolio was comprised of speculative one- to four-family construction loans.  At September 30, 2017, all construction loans were performing in accordance to their terms.  A material increase in our non-performing construction loans could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation.. Our emphasis on commercial real estate lending may expose us to increased lending risks.. Our current business strategy includes an emphasis on commercial real estate lending.  This type of lending activity, while potentially more profitable than single-family residential lending, is generally more sensitive to regional and local economic conditions, making loss levels more difficult to predict.  Collateral evaluation and financial statement analysis in these types of loans requires a more detailed analysis at the time of loan underwriting and on an ongoing basis.  In our primary market of western Washington, a downturn in the real estate market could increase loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure.  Many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us.  Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss.. At September 30, 2017, we had $328.9 million of commercial real estate mortgage loans, representing 41.9% of our total loan portfolio.  These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans, and repayment is dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions.  For example, if the cash flow from the borrower's project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired.  Commercial real estate loans also expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as residential real estate.  In addition, many of our commercial  real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity.  Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment.. A secondary market for most types of commercial real estate loans is not readily liquid, so we have less opportunity to mitigate credit risk by selling part or all of our interest in these loans.  As a result of these characteristics, if we foreclose on a commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral.  Accordingly, charge-offs on commercial real estate loans may be larger as a percentage of the total principal outstanding than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios.. The level of our commercial real estate loan portfolio may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny.. The FDIC, the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency have promulgated joint guidance on sound risk management practices for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Under this guidance, a financial institution that, like us, is actively involved in commercial real estate lending should perform a risk assessment to identify concentrations.  A financial institution may have a concentration in commercial real estate lending if, among other factors (i) total reported loans for construction, land development and other land represent 100% or more of total capital, or (ii) total reported loans secured by multi-family and non-farm non-residential properties, loans for construction, land development. 36. and other land, and loans otherwise sensitive to the general commercial real estate market, including loans to commercial real estate related entities, represent 300% or more of total capital.  The particular focus of the guidance is on exposure to commercial real estate loans that are dependent on the cash flow from the real estate held as collateral and that are likely to be at greater risk to conditions in the commercial real estate market (as opposed to real estate collateral held as a secondary source of repayment or as an abundance of caution).  The purpose of the guidance is to guide banks in developing risk management practices and capital levels commensurate with the level and nature of real estate concentrations.  The guidance states that management should employ heightened risk management practices including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing.  We have concluded that we have a concentration in commercial real estate lending under the foregoing standards because our balance in commercial real estate loans at September 30, 2017 represents more than 300% of total capital.  While we believe we have implemented policies and procedures with respect to our commercial real estate loan portfolio consistent with this guidance, bank regulators could require us to implement additional policies and procedures consistent with their interpretation of the guidance that may result in additional costs to us.. Repayment of our commercial business loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value.. At September 30, 2017, we had $44.4 million, or 5.7%, of total loans in commercial business loans.  Commercial business lending involves risks that are different from those associated with residential and commercial real estate lending.  Real estate lending is generally considered to be collateral based lending with loan amounts based on predetermined loan to collateral values and liquidation of the underlying real estate collateral being viewed as the primary source of repayment in the event of borrower default.  Our commercial business loans are primarily made based on the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower.  The borrowers' cash flow may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value.  Although commercial business loans are often collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable, or other business assets, the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible and inventories may be obsolete or of limited use, among other things.  Accordingly, the repayment of commercial business loans depends primarily on the cash flow and credit worthiness of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower.. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property.. At September 30, 2017, $156.6 million, or 20.0%, of our total loan portfolio was secured by one- to four-family mortgage loans and home equity loans.  This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict.   A decline in residential real estate values resulting from a downturn in the Washington housing market may reduce the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans and increase our risk of loss if borrowers default on their loans.. Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because either we originated the loan with a relatively high combined loan-to-value ratio or because of the decline in home values in our market areas subsequent to when the loans were originated.  Residential loans with combined higher loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale proceeds.  Further, a significant amount of our home equity lines of credit consist of second mortgage loans. For those home equity lines secured by a second mortgage, it is unlikely that we will be successful in recovering all or a portion of our loan proceeds in the event of default unless we are prepared to repay the first mortgage loan and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property.  For these reasons, we may experience higher rates of delinquencies, default and losses on our residential loans.. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio.. Lending money is a substantial part of our business, and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment.  This risk is affected by, among other things:. • the cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed;. • the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan;. • the duration of the loan;. • the credit history of a particular borrower; and. • changes in economic and industry conditions.. 37. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged against operating income, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio.  The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through periodic comprehensive reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to:. • an ongoing review of the quality, size and diversity of the loan portfolio;. • evaluation of non-performing loans;. • historical default and loss experience;. • existing economic conditions and management's expectations of future events;. • risk characteristics of the various classifications of loans;. • the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing the loans; and. • regulatory requirements and expectations.. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of  many of our loans.  In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and the loss experience and evaluate economic conditions and make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes.  If our estimates are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in the need for increases in our allowance for loan losses through the provision for losses on loans which is charged against income.  Further, the Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted a new accounting standard that will be effective for our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2020.  This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss (\"CECL\") will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans, and recognize the expected credit losses as allowances for credit losses.  This will change the current method of providing allowances for credit losses that are probable, which may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, and may greatly increase the types of data we would need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses.. Deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may also require an increase in the allowance for loan losses.  In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different from those of management.  If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to replenish the allowance for loan losses.  Any additional provisions will result in a decrease in net income and possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. If our non-performing assets increase, our earnings will be adversely affected.. At September 30, 2017 our non-performing assets (which consist of non-accruing loans, accruing loans 90 days or more past due, non-accrual investment securities, and OREO and other repossessed assets) were $5.7 million, or 0.60% of total assets. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways:. • We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or non-performing investment securities, except on a cash basis when the collectibility of the principal is not in doubt.. • We must provide for probable loan losses through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses.. • Non-interest expense increases when we must write down the value of properties in our OREO portfolio to reflect changing market values.. • Non-interest income decreases when we must recognize other-than-temporary impairment on non-performing investment securities.. • There are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets, as well as carrying costs, such as taxes, insurance, and maintenance costs related to our OREO.. • The resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from more profitable activity.. If additional borrowers become delinquent and do not pay their loans and we are unable to successfully manage our non-performing assets, our losses and troubled assets could increase significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  In addition to the non-performing loans, there were $3.3 million in loans classified as performing troubled debt restructurings at September 30, 2017.. 38. If our investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation allowances, our earnings could be reduced.. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed and the property is taken in as OREO, and at certain other times during the asset's holding period.  Our net book value (\"NBV\") in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated estimated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value).  A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset's NBV over its fair value.  If our valuation process is incorrect or if the property declines in value after foreclosure, the fair value of our OREO may not be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for a valuation allowance.. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our OREO and may require us to recognize further valuation allowances.  Significant charge-offs to our OREO may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our investment securities portfolio may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in market value and interest rates and result in losses.. Our investment securities portfolio may be impacted by fluctuations in market value, potentially reducing accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and/or earnings.  Fluctuations in market value may be caused by changes in market interest rates, lower market prices for investment securities and limited investor demand.  Our investment securities portfolio is evaluated for other-than-temporary-impairment (\"OTTI\").  If this evaluation shows impairment to the actual or projected cash flows associated with one or more investment securities, a potential loss to earnings may occur.  Changes in interest rates can also have an adverse effect on our financial condition, as our available-for-sale investment securities are reported at their estimated fair value, and therefore are impacted by fluctuations in interest rates.  We increase or decrease our shareholders' equity by the amount of change in the estimated fair value of the available-for-sale investment securities, net of income taxes.. During the year ended September 30, 2017, we recognized a $33,000 recovery of OTTI charges on private label mortgage backed securities we hold for investment.  During the year ended September 30, 2016, we recognized $168,000 of OTTI charges on private label mortgage backed securities we hold for investment.  During the year ended September 30, 2015, we recognized $13,000 of OTTI charges on private label mortgage backed securities we hold for investment.  At September 30, 2017, our remaining private label mortgage backed securities portfolio totaled $599,000 of which $533,000 was on non-accrual status.. The valuation of our investment securities also is influenced by additional external market and other factors, including implementation of Securities and Exchange Commission and Financial Accounting Standards Board guidance on fair value accounting, default rates on residential mortgage securities and rating agency actions.  Accordingly, there can be no assurance that future declines in the market value of our private label mortgage backed securities or other investment securities will not result in additional OTTI of these assets and lead to accounting charges that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. An increase in interest rates, change in the programs offered by Freddie Mac or our ability to qualify for their programs may reduce our mortgage revenues, which would negatively impact our non-interest income.. The sale of residential mortgage loans to Freddie Mac provides a significant portion of our non-interest income.  Any future changes in their program, our eligibility to participate in such program, the criteria for loans to be accepted or laws that significantly affect the activity of Freddie Mac could, in turn, materially adversely affect our results of operations if we could not find other purchasers.  Mortgage banking is generally considered a volatile source of income because it depends largely on the  level of loan volume which, in turn, depends largely on prevailing market interest rates.  In a rising or higher interest rate environment, the demand for mortgage loans, particularly refinancing of existing mortgage loans, tends to fall and our originations of mortgage loans may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold.  This would result in a decrease in mortgage revenues and a corresponding decrease in non-interest income.  In addition, our results of operations are affected by the amount of non-interest expense associated with our loan sale activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, equipment and data processing expense and other operating costs.  During periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in loan originations.  In addition, although we sell loans to Freddie Mac or into the secondary market without recourse, we are required to give customary representations and warranties about the loans we sell.  If  we breach those representations and warranties, we may be required to repurchase the loans and we may incur a loss on the repurchase.. 39. Our real estate lending also exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities.. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties.  We may be held liable by a governmental entity or by third persons for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property.  The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial.  In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property.  If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability.. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income.  Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board.  In an attempt to help the overall economy, the Federal Reserve Board has kept interest rates low through its targeted Fed Funds rate.  Beginning in December 2016, the Federal Reserve Board has increased the Fed Funds rate by 75 basis points to a range of 1.00% to 1.25% in September 2017 and indicated a likelihood for a further increase of 25 basis points during 2017 subject to economic conditions.  As the Federal Reserve Board increases the Fed Funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact both the housing markets by reducing refinancing activity and new home purchases and the U.S. economic recovery.. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and investments and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but these changes could also affect: (1) our ability to originate and/or sell loans and obtain deposits; (2) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, which could negatively impact shareholders' equity, and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; (3) our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; (4) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans; and (5) the average duration of our investment securities portfolio and other interest-earning assets.  If the interest rates paid on deposits and borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected.. Changes in interest rates could also have a negative impact on our results of operations by reducing the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations or by reducing our margins and profitability.  Our net interest margin is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding.  Changes in interest rates (up or down) could adversely affect our net interest margin and, as a result, our net interest income.  Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tends to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract.  Changes in the slope of the \"yield curve\", or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates, could also reduce our net interest margin.  Normally the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates.  Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets.  Also, interest rate decreases can lead to increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities as borrowers refinance their loans to reduce borrowing costs.  Under these circumstances we are subject to reinvestment risk as we may have to redeploy such repayment proceeds into lower yielding investments, which would likely negatively impact our income.. A sustained increase in market interest rates could adversely affect our earnings.  As a result of the exceptionally low interest rate environment, an increasing percentage of our deposits have been comprised of deposits bearing no or a relatively low rate of interest and having a shorter duration than our assets.  At September 30, 2017, we had $75.4 million in certificates of deposit that mature within one year and $698.3 million in non-interest bearing, NOW checking, savings and money market accounts.  We would incur a higher cost of funds to retain these deposits in a rising interest rate environment.  If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected.  In addition, a substantial amount of our residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit have adjustable interest rates.  As a result, these loans may experience a higher rate of default in a rising interest rate environment.. Changes in interest rates also affects the value of our interest-earning assets and in particular our investment securities portfolio.  Generally, the fair value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates.  Unrealized gains and losses on investment securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax.  Decreases in the. 40. fair value of investment securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on stockholders' equity.. Any substantial, unexpected or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.  Also, our interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions likely may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on our balance sheet or projected operating results.  For further discussion of how changes in interest rates could impact us, see \"Part II, Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk\" for additional information about our interest rate risk management.. The financial services market is undergoing rapid technological changes, and if we are unable to stay current with those changes, we may not be able to effectively compete.. The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services.  Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to keep pace with the technological changes and to use technology to satisfy and grow customer demand for our products and services and to create additional efficiencies in our operations.  We expect that we will need to make substantial investments in our technology and information systems to compete effectively and to stay current with technological changes.  Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements and will be able to invest more heavily in developing and adopting new technologies, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage.  We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers.  As a result, our ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business may be impaired, and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition, growth and prospects.. Liquidity is essential to our business.  An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity.  We rely on customer deposits and borrowings from the FHLB, borrowings from the FRB and other borrowings to fund our operations.  At September 30, 2017, we had no FHLB borrowings outstanding and a letter of credit with an available balance of $22.0 million and an additional $360.5 million of available borrowing capacity through the FHLB and the FRB.  Deposit flows, calls of wholesale borrowings, and the prepayment of loans and mortgage-related securities are strongly influenced by such external factors as the direction of interest rates, whether actual or perceived, and the competition for deposits and loans in the markets we serve.  Further, changes to the FHLB's underwriting guidelines for wholesale borrowings or lending policies may limit or restrict our ability to borrow, and could therefore have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity.  Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and borrowings if desired, we may not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our financial condition, the financial condition of the FHLB or FRB, or market conditions change.  Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms which are acceptable could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry.  Additional factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the Washington markets where our deposits are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us.. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates.  Although we consider our sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives.  Additional borrowings, if sought, may not be available to us or, if available, may not be available on reasonable terms.  If additional financing sources are unavailable, or are not available on reasonable terms, our financial condition, results of operations, growth and future prospects could be materially adversely affected.  Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our income may not increase proportionately to cover our costs.. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations that could increase our costs of operations.. The banking industry is extensively regulated.  Federal banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit a company's shareholders.  These regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on our operations.  The significant federal and state banking regulations that  affect us are described in this report under the heading \"Item 1. Business-How We Are Regulated\".  These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and. 41. disclosures.  These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time.  Any new regulations or legislation, change in existing regulation or oversight, whether a change in regulatory policy or a change in a regulator's interpretation of a law or regulation, could have a material impact on our operations, increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business and adversely affect our profitability.  In this regard, the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (\"FinCEN\"), published guidelines in 2014 for financial institutions servicing state legal marijuana businesses.  These guidelines allow us to work with marijuana-related businesses that are operating in accordance with state laws and regulations, so long as we comply with required regulatory oversight of their accounts with us.  At September 30, 2017, approximately 1.8% of our total deposits and a portion of our service charges from deposits are from legal marijuana-related businesses.  Any adverse change in this FinCEN guidance, any new regulations or legislation, any change in existing regulations or oversight, whether a change in regulatory policy or a change in a regulator's interpretation of a law or regulation, could have a negative impact on our non-interest income, as well as the cost of our operations, increasing our cost of regulatory compliance and of doing business and/or otherwise affect us, which may materially affect our profitability.. Non-compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions and limit our ability to get regulatory approval of acquisitions.. The USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities.  If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with FinCEN.  These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts.  Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions and limit our ability to get regulatory approval of acquisitions.  Recently several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations.  While we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, no assurance can be given that these policies and procedures will be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations.. Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high.. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations.  At some point, we may need to raise additional capital to support our growth or replenish future losses.  Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance.  If we are able to raise capital it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us.  Accordingly, we cannot make assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital.  If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our operations could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected.  As a result, we may have to raise additional capital on terms that may be dilutive to our shareholders.. We may experience future goodwill impairment, which could reduce our earnings.. We performed our test for goodwill impairment for fiscal year 2017, and the test concluded that recorded goodwill was not impaired.  Our test of goodwill for potential impairment is based on a qualitative assessment by management that takes into consideration macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost or margin factors, financial performance and share price.  Our evaluation of the fair value of goodwill involves a substantial amount of judgment.  If our judgment was incorrect, or if events or circumstances change, and an impairment of goodwill was deemed to exist, we would be required to write down our goodwill resulting in a charge against operations, which would adversely affect our results of operations, perhaps materially; however, it would have no impact on our liquidity, operations or regulatory capital.. We may experience decreases in the fair value of our mortgage servicing rights, which could reduce our earnings.. Mortgage servicing rights (\"MSRs\") are capitalized at estimated fair value when acquired through the origination of loans that are subsequently sold with servicing rights retained.  At September 30, 2017, our MSRs totaled $1.8 million.  MSRs are amortized to servicing income on loans sold over the period of estimated net servicing income.  The estimated fair value of MSRs at the date of the sale of loans is determined based on the discounted present value of expected future cash flows using key assumptions for servicing income and costs and prepayment rates on the underlying loans.  On a quarterly basis, we evaluate the fair value of MSRs for impairment by comparing actual cash flows and estimated cash flows from the servicing assets to those estimated at the time servicing assets were originated.  Our methodology for estimating the fair value of MSRs is highly sensitive to changes in assumptions, such as prepayment speeds.  The effect of changes in market interest rates on estimated rates of loan prepayments represents the predominant risk characteristic underlying the MSRs portfolio.  For example, a decrease in mortgage interest rates typically increases the prepayment speeds of MSRs and therefore decreases the fair value of the MSRs.  Future. 42. decreases in mortgage interest rates could decrease the fair value of our MSRs below their recorded amount, which would decrease our earnings.. Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us.. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report, analyze and control the types of risk to which we are subject.  These risks include liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and reputational risk, among others.  We also maintain a compliance program to identify, measure, assess, and report on our adherence to applicable laws, policies and procedures.  While we assess and improve these programs on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that our risk management or compliance programs, along with other related controls, will effectively mitigate all risk and limit losses in our business.  As with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified.  If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to certain risks in connection with our use of technology.. Our security measures may not be sufficient to mitigate the risk of a cyber attack.  Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, our general ledger and virtually all other aspects of our business.  Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks.  Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, the security of our computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, or other malicious code and cyber attacks that could have a security impact.  If one or more of these events occur, this could jeopardize our or our customers' confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or the operations of our customers or counterparties.  We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us.  We could also suffer significant reputational damage.. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could further expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation.  Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information.  We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data.  These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security  measures and could result in significant legal liability and significant damage to our reputation and our business.. Our security measures may not protect us from system failures or interruptions.  While we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures and interruptions, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do.  In addition, we outsource certain aspects of our data processing and other operational functions to certain third-party providers.  If our third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty in communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely impacted.  Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel.. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions may require us to identify alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure you that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all.  Further, the occurrence of any systems failure or interruption could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to legal liability.  Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and  results of operations.. Our business may be adversely affected by an increasing prevalence of fraud and other financial crimes.. Our loans to businesses and individuals and our deposit relationships and related transactions are subject to exposure to the risk of loss due to fraud and other financial crimes.  Nationally, reported incidents of fraud and other financial crimes have increased.  We have also experienced losses due to apparent fraud and other financial crimes.  While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent such losses, there can be no assurance that such losses will not occur.. 43. We are dependent on key personnel, and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects.. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense, and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the community banking industry where the Bank conducts its business. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of our management and personnel.  In particular, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of key executives, including our President, and certain other employees.  In addition, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the services of our directors, and we may not be able to identify and attract suitable candidates to replace such directors.. Managing reputational risk is important to attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees.. Threats to our reputation can come from many sources, including adverse sentiment about financial institutions generally, unethical practices, employee misconduct, failure to deliver minimum standards of service or quality, compliance deficiencies and questionable or fraudulent activities of our customers.  We have policies and procedures in place to protect our reputation and promote ethical conduct, but these policies and procedures may not be fully effective.  Negative publicity regarding our business, employees, or customers, with or without merit, may result in the loss of customers, investors and employees, costly litigation, a decline in revenues and increased governmental regulation.. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.. Third-party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and core application processing.  While we have selected these third-party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions.  Any problems caused by these third-parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers or otherwise conduct our business efficiently and effectively.  Replacing these third-party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense."
