[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risk Factors. An investment in our securities involves risks. You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission before investing in our securities. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to repay our outstanding convertible senior notes and the trading price of our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those currently viewed by us to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We have incurred significant net losses in the past and may never achieve sustained profitability from our non-licensing related operations. We generate a significant amount of revenue from our patent settlement agreements with DISH, AT&T, Verizon, Motorola/Cisco which expire in calendar year 2018 or later, and if we are unable to renew or replace these revenues, our business would be harmed.. During the fiscal years ended January 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014, our net income was $21.7 million, $30.8 million, and $271.8 million, respectively. As of January 31, 2016, we had an accumulated deficit of $(358.0) million. The size of future net losses or income will be impacted by a number of factors, including the timing of the development or deployment of solutions under our television service provider arrangements, the growth or decline in the number of TiVo subscriptions, the prices at which we sell TiVo set-top boxes, the amount of research and development expenses we incur to fund new product development and expand our engineering services capacity, and the amount and timing of settlement payments. In fiscal year 2012, we entered into patent settlement. 12. Table of Contents. agreements with DISH and AT&T and in fiscal year 2013, we entered into a patent settlement agreement with Verizon. In fiscal year 2014, we entered into a patent settlement agreement with Motorola/Cisco. The patent settlement agreements with DISH, AT&T, Verizon, and Motorola/Cisco will generate recurring revenues for us until 2024, with the majority of these revenues received by 2019. We generate a significant amount of revenues as a result of these settlement agreements. If we are unable to renew or replace these revenues through similar or other business arrangements, our revenues would decline and our business would be harmed as a result. Unless and until we generate significant additional revenues from our operations or substantially reduce our expenses, we are likely to continue to incur losses in future fiscal years, including after we cease further receipt of our current legal settlement payments and we may never achieve sustained profitability. As such, in the future, continued net losses and negative cash flow could drain our existing cash balance.. We are party to a patent infringement lawsuit involving Samsung.  We expect to incur significant expenses as a result, and an adverse outcome in the lawsuit could harm our business.. Our claims against Samsung.  On September 8, 2015, the Company filed a complaint against Samsung Electronics Co., LTD, Samsung Electronics America, Inc., and Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC. (\"Samsung\") in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.  The complaint asserts U.S. Patent No. 6,233,389, titled \"Multimedia Time Warping System,\" U.S. Patent No. 6,792,195, titled \"Method And Apparatus Implementing Random Access And Time-Based Functions On A Continuous Stream Of Formatted Digital Data,\" U.S. Patent No. 7,558,472, titled \"Multimedia Signal Processing System,\" and U.S. Patent No. 8,457,476, titled \"Multimedia Signal Processing System.\" The complaint claims that Samsung infringes the Company's patents by making and selling Samsung DVRs and mobile devices, and related software, that fall within the scope of one or more claims of the Company's patents.  The Company's complaint also claims that Samsung's infringement is willful, and seeks, among other things, an unspecified amount in damages as well as an injunction.. Samsung's claims against us.: On February 11, 2016, Samsung amended its answer to assert U.S. Patent No. 5,978,043, titled \"TV Graphical User Interface That Provides Customized Lists Of Programming,\" U.S. Patent No. 6,181,333, titled \"Television Graphical User Interface Having Channel And Program Sorting Capabilities,\" U.S. Patent No. 7,231,592, titled \"Method And Apparatus For A Home Network Auto-Tree Builder,\" and U.S. Patent No. 8,233,090, titled \"Method Of Linkage-Viewing TV Broadcasting Program Between Mobile Communication Apparatus And Digital TV, And Mobile Communication Apparatus And Digital TV Thereof\" against the Company.  In its amended answer, Samsung counterclaims that the Company infringes Samsung's patents by making and selling TiVo DVRs, and related software, that fall within the scope of one or more claims of Samsung's patents.  Samsung's complaint claims that the Company's infringement is willful, and seeks, among other things, damages in an unspecified amount.. We may make patent assertions, or initiate patent infringement or patent interference actions or other litigation to protect our IP, which could be costly and harm our business.. We are currently engaged in litigation, and litigation may be necessary in the future, to enforce our patents and other IP rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others.. We, and many of our current and potential competitors, dedicate substantial resources to protection and enforcement of IP rights. We believe that companies will continue to take steps to protect their technologies, including, but not limited to, seeking patent protection. Companies in the technology and content-related industries have frequently resorted to litigation regarding IP rights. Disputes regarding the ownership of technologies and their associated rights are likely to arise in the future and we may be forced to litigate to determine the validity and scope of other parties' proprietary rights. Any such litigation is inherently risky, the outcome is uncertain, could be costly, could distract our management from focusing on operating our business, could delay recognition of revenue until a settlement or decision is ultimately reached, could result in the invalidation or adverse claims construction of patents, and might ultimately be unsuccessful. The existence and/or outcome of such litigation could harm our business.. In 2014, the Supreme Court of the United States decided the Alice Corp v. CSL Bank International (\"Alice\") case. The Alice case generally addresses patentable subject matter, and specifically an exception to patentable subject matter for \"abstract ideas.\" In the Alice case, the court provides some general interpretive guidance to be considered when determining whether patent claims are directed to patent-ineligible abstract ideas, along with a two-step test for determining patentable subject matter eligibility going-forward. Practically, the effects of the Alice decision are still being assessed by patent holders, attorneys, the United States Patent & Trademark Office and various courts, all of which are attempting to determine the appropriate analysis and boundaries of the Alice decision on other patents. In any event, the Alice decision will provide potential licensees and accused infringers of. 13. Table of Contents. certain patents - including our patents - new arguments to challenge the validity of such patents, which could cause some delays or risk in pending or future patent negotiations or litigation.. Additionally, the relationships with our customers, suppliers and technology collaborators may be disrupted or terminated as a result of patent assertions that we may make against them, which could harm our business.. Finally, adverse legal rulings could result in the invalidation of our patents, the narrowing of the claims of our patents, or fostering of the perception by licensees or potential licensees that a judicial finding of their infringement is unlikely. Such results or perceptions could decrease the likelihood that licensees or potential licensees may be interested in licensing our patents, or could decrease the amounts of license fees that they are willing to pay, which could harm our business.. We may not be able to join standards bodies, license technologies or integrate with platforms that are necessary or helpful to our product or services businesses because of the encumbrances that the proposed associated agreements place on our patents.. Standards bodies often require, as a condition of joining such bodies, that potential members license, agree to license, disclose or place other burdens on their patents. Similarly, technology licensors and platform operators often require that licensees cross license, or agree not to assert, their patents. In order to develop, provide or distribute certain products or services, we may find it necessary or helpful to join these standard bodies, license these technologies or contract with these platform operators. However, in order to do so, we might have to sign agreements under which we would have to license or agree not to assert patents without being able to collect royalties or for fees that we believe are less than those that we could otherwise collect. Similarly, these agreements could require us to disclose invention-related information that we would otherwise prefer to keep confidential. This inability to be part of standards bodies, to license certain technologies, or to contract with certain platform operators, could harm our business.. Intellectual property claims against us could be extremely costly, result in the loss of significant rights, require us to alter our current product and business strategy and force us to cease operating our business, in which case our business would be harmed.. From time to time, we are sued in court or receive letters from third-parties alleging that we are infringing on their intellectual property. Regardless of their merit, we are forced to devote time and resources to respond to these lawsuits and letters. In addition, if any of these third-parties or others were to be successful in suing us, our business would be harmed because intellectual property litigation may:. •be time-consuming and expensive;. •divert management's attention and resources away from our business;. •cause delays in product delivery and new service introduction;. •cause the cancellation of current or future products, features, functionality or services, or the inability to include certain features or functionality;. •require us to pay significant amounts in damages, royalties and/or licensing fees;. •cause us to incur material expenses as a result of our indemnification obligations; and. •result in an injunction that could force us to limit the functionality of our products and services, stop importing our products and services into certain markets, or cease operating our business altogether.. The emerging advanced-television industry is highly litigious. Additionally, many patents covering interactive television technologies have been granted but have not been commercialized. A number of companies in the advanced-television industry earn substantial profits from technology licensing, and the introduction of new technologies by us is likely to provoke lawsuits from such companies. A successful claim of infringement against us, our inability to obtain an acceptable license from the holder of the patent or other right, or our inability to design around an asserted patent or other right could cause our manufacturers to cease manufacturing DVRs that enable the TiVo service, our retailers to stop selling the product or us to cease providing our service, or all of the above, which would eliminate our ability to generate revenues.. Under our agreements with many of our manufacturing and licensing partners, we may be required to indemnify them in the event that our technology infringes upon the intellectual property rights of third-parties. Due to indemnity obligations which include infringement of third-party intellectual property rights and may also include indemnification for open source software violations, we could be forced to incur material expenses if our manufacturing and licensing partners are sued. In addition, because the products sold by our manufacturing. 14. Table of Contents. and licensing partners often involve the use of other persons' technology, this increases our exposure to litigation in circumstances where there is a claim of infringement asserted against the product in question, even if the claim does not pertain to our technology.. Our success depends in part on our ability to secure and protect our patents, trademarks, and other proprietary rights.. Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent upon our internally developed technology. We rely on patent, trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection, as well as confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, partners, and others to protect our intellectual property rights. However, the steps we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate. We have filed patent applications and provisional patent applications covering much of the unique technology used to deliver the TiVo service and its features and functionality. To date, several of these patents have been granted, but we cannot assure you that any additional patents will ever be granted, that any issued patents will protect our intellectual property or that third-parties will not challenge any issued patents. Opposition proceedings may result in changes to certain claims or revocation of a patent. In addition, other parties may independently develop similar or competing technologies that design around any patents that may be issued to us. Our failure to secure and protect our proprietary rights could harm our business.. If cable operators were to cease supporting and providing CableCARDs to consumers or cable operators were to transmit television programs using technology that prevents our retail products from receiving and displaying television programs, the functionality of our current retail products would be severely limited, in which case our business would be harmed.. The cable industry in the United States is currently required to provide access to digital high definition television signals to retail products by supplying separable security modules to decrypt encrypted signals. Traditionally, cable operators have satisfied this separable security requirement by supplying CableCARD conditional access security cards. We rely on cable operators to supply CableCARDs for certain types of our DVRs to receive encrypted digital television signals without a cable operator supplied set-top box. With the limited exception of high definition over the air broadcast channels, our DVRs presently are limited to using CableCARDs to access digital cable, high definition, and premium cable channels (such as HBO) that are delivered in a linear fashion where all programs are broadcast to all subscribers all the time. Our retail cable products are unable to access the encrypted digital television signals of satellite providers such as DIRECTV and Dish as well as alternative television service providers such as AT&T U-verse and Google Fiber. And without CableCARDs, there presently is no alternative way for us to sell a retail cable product that works across cable systems nationwide. Furthermore, to the extent more pay TV customers obtain television service from satellite television providers and alternative television providers such AT&T U-verse and Google Fiber, the desirability of our retail products and service will be harmed.. In November 2014, Congress passed the Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act Reauthorization (\"STELAR\"). Among other things, STELAR repealed an FCC requirement that cable operators employ separable security (i.e., CableCARDs) in the set-top boxes they lease to their subscribers effective December 4, 2015. STELAR did not alter the requirement that cable operators provide separable security to retail devices and the cable industry has represented to Congress that it would continue to provide and support retail CableCARD devices in compliance with the separable security requirement. However, without continued use by operator leased devices, the prices charged by operators to consumers for CableCARDs could increase and support for retail CableCARD devices could deteriorate.. As part of STELAR, the FCC Chairman established a working group of technical experts, including a representative from TiVo, representing a wide range of stakeholders, to identify, report, and recommend performance objectives, technical capabilities, and technical standards of a not unduly burdensome uniform, and technology and platform neutral software based downloadable security system designed to allow retail devices to access multichannel video programming.. The working group submitted its report to the FCC on August 28, 2015. On February 18, 2016, the FCC initiated a proceeding proposing rules intended to allow companies to build retail devices or software solutions that can navigate the universe of multichannel video programming with a competitive user interface as well as continued support for retail CableCARD devices. If cable operators were to cease supporting and providing CableCARDs to consumers without providing TiVo with a commercially viable alternative method of accessing digital cable, high definition, and premium cable channels that works across cable systems nationwide, we would be unable to sell most of our current retail products, may be unable to create future retail products, and our. 15. Table of Contents. business would be harmed as the market for devices which only receive over the air broadcast television signals is significantly smaller than the current pay TV market.. Certain cable operators are deploying switched digital video technologies to transmit television programs in an on demand fashion (switched digital) only to subscribers who request to watch a particular program. Although cable operators are deploying a solution to enable our customers to receive channels delivered with switched technologies (known as the \"Tuning Adapter\"), if this technology is not successful or is not adopted by our customers (due to cost, complexity, functionality, or other reasons), then the increased use of switched technologies and the continued inability of our products to receive switched cable programming without a Tuning Adapter may reduce the desirability and competitiveness of our products and services and adversely affect sales of our TiVo-Owned subscriptions in which case our business would be harmed.. Similarly, if cable operators implement new technologies in the future to transmit television programming that do not allow programs to be received and displayed on our retail products, the desirability and competitiveness of our products and services will be adversely affected and impact the sales of our TiVo-Owned products and services, in which case our business would be harmed.. Legislation, laws or regulations that govern the consumer electronics and television industry, the delivery of programming, access to television signals, and the collection of viewing information from subscriptions could expose us to legal action if we fail to comply and could adversely impact and/or could require us to change our business.. The delivery of television programming, access to television signals by consumer electronics devices, and the collection of viewing information from subscriptions via the TiVo service and a DVR represent a relatively new category in the television and home entertainment industries. As such, it is difficult to predict what laws or regulations will govern our business. Changes in the regulatory climate, the enactment of new legislation, or the expansion, contraction, enforcement or interpretation of existing laws or regulations could expose us to additional costs and expenses and could adversely impact or require changes to our business. For example, legislation regarding customer privacy or copyright could be enacted or expanded in ways that apply to the TiVo service, which could adversely affect our business. Laws or regulations could be interpreted to prevent or limit access to some or all television signals by certain consumer electronics devices, or impose limits on the number of copies, the ability to transfer or move copies, or the length of time a consumer may retain copies of some or all types of television programming. New or existing copyright laws could be applied to restrict the capture of television programming, which would adversely affect our business. It is unknown whether existing laws and regulations will apply to the digital video recorder market. Therefore, it is difficult to anticipate the impact of current or future laws and regulations on our business. We may have significant expenses associated with staying appraised of and in compliance with local, state, federal, and international legislation and regulation of our business and in presenting TiVo's positions on proposed laws and regulations.. The FCC has broad jurisdiction over the telecommunications and cable industries in the U.S. The FCC could promulgate new regulations, or interpret existing regulations in a manner that would cause us to incur significant compliance costs or force us to alter or eliminate certain features or functionality of the TiVo products or services which may adversely affect our business. For example, the FCC could determine that certain of our products fail to comply with regulations concerning matters such as electrical interference, copy protection, digital tuners, or display of television programming based on rating systems. The FCC could also impose limits on the number of copies, the ability to transfer or move copies, the length of time a consumer may retain copies, or the ability to access some or all types of television programming. New regulations could reduce the desirability of our products and services, require us to make changes to our products or services, or increase our compliance costs.. In the future, our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We expect our revenues and operating results to fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Therefore, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of results of operations as an indication of our future performance. It is possible that in some periods our operating results may fall below the expectations of market analysts and investors. In such event, the market price of our common stock would likely fall.. Factors that may affect our annual operating results include:. •demand for TiVo products and the TiVo service;. •the timing and introduction of new services and features on the TiVo service;. 16. Table of Contents. •seasonality and other consumer and advertising trends;. •entering into new strategic partnerships or amending or terminating existing strategic partnerships;. •timing of the roll-out of the TiVo service and delivery of customized set-top boxes to our strategic partners;. •changes in our pricing policies, the pricing policies of our competitors and general pricing trends in the consumer electronics market;. •timing of revenue recognition under our agreements;. •loss of subscriptions to the TiVo service;. •recruiting and retention of key personnel; and. •general economic conditions.. Because our expenses precede associated revenues, unanticipated shortfalls in revenues could adversely affect our results of operations for any given period and cause the market price of our common stock to fall.. Our future growth depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of key executives. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to recruit, retain and motivate key personnel and our management team.. We must continue to recruit, retain and motivate key personnel and members of our management in order to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. As originally announced on November 17, 2015, we began an executive transition plan whereby our chief executive officer transitioned to non-executive chairman of our Board of Directors on January 30, 2016. As announced on January 12, 2016, we appointed our current chief financial officer, Naveen Chopra, as interim chief executive officer, effective January 30, 2016. The transition of our chief executive officer involves significant risks, and our ability to successfully manage this transition, recruit a new qualified chief executive officer, retain key personnel and members of our management team and manage other organizational changes resulting from this transition could adversely impact our business. If we are unable to identity or employ a permanent chief executive officer in a timely manner, our operational performance could be negatively impacted.. We generate a significant portion of our service and software revenue from our agreement with DIRECTV, which expires in February 15, 2018, which would lead to substantial revenue loss and possible litigation if not renewed. Our contract with DIRECTV, which was recently acquired by AT&T (who is also a TiVo licensee), expires on February 15, 2018. We cannot assure you that our license agreement with DIRECTV will be renewed on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to replace the revenue associated with this agreement through similar or other business arrangements, our revenues and profit margins would decline and our business would be harmed as a result. While it is our intent to renew both our DIRECTV and AT&T agreements, as a result of AT&Ts acquisition of DIRECTV, the timing and structure of such renewals with AT&T/DIRECTV could have a negative impact on our future revenues. We also cannot assure you that these license agreements will be renewed. Additionally, we may become involved in litigation with these licensees in connection with attempting to negotiate new agreements. The existence and/or outcome of such litigation could harm our business.. We face risks in connection with our marketing and distribution agreements for the development and deployment of TiVo's advanced television solutions and services to our television service provider customers, including our ability to gain access to certain necessary third-party technologies and possible conflicts between our marketing of a retail DVR service and related products that compete with the products we offer our television service providers.. We face significant technological challenges in our development of TiVo products and services for our television service provider customers as well as challenges related to our dependence on certain third-party technology providers upon whom we depend to provide technology to us to allow us to meet the agreed upon feature and technology requirements requested by our television service provider customers. We also face challenges in managing our television service provider customer relationships while offering and marketing a competing retail DVR service. For example, we rely on access to and receipt of certain technologies from third-parties to enable Video on Demand and other content and search features on our products. Additionally, we have engaged in intellectual property infringement suits with parties that we may otherwise rely on for the delivery of necessary technologies for the enablement of key features of our products and as required by our contractual arrangements with our television service provider customers. For example, we previously engaged in patent infringement litigation with Motorola and Microsoft, who also license technology to us for use in our products to. 17. Table of Contents. enable certain features. If we were unable to gain access to such technologies on reasonable commercial terms, we may be unable to provide certain features and functionalities in our products. In such an event, our products may not be competitive with similar products in the market and further we may not be able to comply with the contractual arrangements with certain of our television service provider customers, and in either case our business would be harmed as a result. Our ability to benefit from these agreements is dependent upon the mass deployment and adoption of our TiVo-branded and non-branded advanced television solutions, which may include TiVo-branded DVRs, third-party set-top boxes which run TiVo software, mobile (iOS and Android) apps, and DVR and non-DVR set-top boxes, among other solutions, by the customers of our television service provider customers. If our television service provider customers do not market our service to their customers, either because of feature limitations due to our inability to access third party technologies or because of channel conflicts between our retail DVR service  and our DVR service offered to our television service providers, then our business will be harmed. If we are unable to complete development of these products in a timely and efficient manner to the satisfaction of our television service provider customers, which includes hiring and retaining the necessary number of engineers and software developers to develop each partner's customized solution, correctly estimating the amount of time and resources that are necessary to develop each such solution, licensing necessary third-party technology (such as, for example, technology which enables the display of VOD content from our partners), and enabling full-scale deployment of our TiVo-branded and non-branded advanced television solutions and services with our television service provider customers, we may not be able to acquire new subscribers from them under these agreements and our business would be harmed.. Furthermore, some of our television service provider customers have the right to receive certain most favored terms from us such that if we were to license similar products and services to other parties at more attractive terms than what such partners receive under their agreements with us, then such partners may be entitled to receive the new more favorable terms. Additionally, such partners may have the right to terminate their agreements with us in the event we are subject to certain specified change of control transactions involving companies specified in their agreements. Further, if any of our partners are subject to a change of control transaction, our business could be harmed if such acquiring company chose to favor a technology provider other than us, despite the fact that many of our agreements with our partners include exclusivity provisions, minimum deployment commitments, or minimum financial commitments. If any of these events occur, including our inability to develop, license, and deploy in a timely, efficient, and on a full-scale basis, we will have difficulty generating revenues and new subscriptions under these agreements and our business would be harmed.. If we fail to adequately manage our increasingly complex distribution agreements, including licensing, development, and engineering services, we could be subjected to unexpected delays in the deployment of TiVo's advanced television solutions, increased costs, possible penalties and adverse accounting and contractual consequences, including termination of such distribution arrangements. In any such event, our business would be harmed.. In connection with our deployment arrangements, we engage in complex licensing, development, and engineering services arrangements with our marketing partners and distributors. These deployment agreements with television service providers usually provide for some or all of the following deliverables: software engineering services, solution integration services, hosting of the TiVo service, maintenance, and support. In general, these contracts are long-term and complex and often rely on the timely performance of such television service provider's third-party vendors that are outside TiVo's control. The engineering services and technology we agree to provide and/or develop may be essential to the functionality of the licensed software and delivered product or such software may involve significant customization and modification for each customer. We have experienced or may experience delays in delivery with television service providers including, for example, Com Hem and Virgin, as well as significant increases in expected costs of development and performance in certain instances in the past. Additional delays could lead to additional costs and adverse accounting treatments forcing us to recognize costs earlier than expected. If we are unable to deliver the contracted for technology, including specified customizations and modifications, and services in a timely manner or at all, then we could face penalties in the form of unreimbursed engineering development work, loss of subscriber or minimum financial commitments on the part of our partners or in extreme cases the early termination of such distribution agreements. In any such case our business would be harmed.. If we fail to properly estimate, manage, and perform the development and engineering services for our television service provider customers, we could incur additional unexpected expenses and losses which could reduce or even eliminate any profit from these deployment arrangements, in which case our business would be harmed.. 18. Table of Contents. When we enter into deployment agreements with television service providers, we are typically required to make cost estimates based on historical experience and various other assumptions. These estimates are assessed continually during the term of the contract and revisions are reflected when the conditions become known. Using different cost estimates related to engineering services may produce materially different operating results, in addition to differences in timing and income statement classification of related expenses and revenues. An unfavorable change in estimates could result in a reduction of profit due to higher cost or the recording of a loss once such a loss becomes known to us that would be borne solely by us. We also recognize revenues for software engineering services that are essential to the functionality of the software or involve significant customization or modification using the percentage-of-completion method. We recognize revenue by measuring progress toward completion based on the ratio of costs incurred, principally labor, to total estimated costs of the project, an input method. If we are unable to properly measure and estimate our progress toward completion in such circumstances, we could incur unexpected additional costs, be required to recognize certain costs earlier than expected, or otherwise be required to delay recognition of revenues unexpectedly. A material inability to properly manage, estimate, and perform these development and engineering services for our television service provider customers could cause us to incur unexpected losses and reduce or even eliminate any profit from these arrangements, and in such a case our business would be harmed.. Many of our current deployment arrangements with television service providers require us to incur significant upfront development, set-up and integration engineering expenses for which we are in total or in part compensated through future service fees received after a solution is launched. If we are required to incur such upfront development and integration costs in excess of any development revenues and we are reasonably assured that these excess upfront development costs are recoverable, we will defer such cost. However, despite the deferral of these development costs, we do incur cash outflows associated with these development efforts resulting in potentially higher cash usage in the near term. The assessment of recoverability is highly dependent on our estimates of engineering and operating costs related to the project. For operators for which we are not hosting the TiVo service (generally outside North America), we would recognize them on a zero margin basis and then start recognizing service revenues (and related margin) only after the initial project-specific development costs are fully recovered. For operators for which we are hosting the TiVo service (generally in North America), we would recognize these deferred integration costs on a straight-line basis after the solution is launched, while at the same time recognizing service revenues (and related margin). As of January 31, 2016, we had approximately $16.2 million in such project-specific deferred costs. As a consequence, it may either be a significant period of time after a solution launches and after we are adding new subscriptions from such deployment arrangement before we experience a corresponding impact on our service revenues (and related margins) from such a deployment arrangement or our overall profitability will be reduced by continued recognition of integration cost. If we fail to properly estimate, manage, and perform these development and engineering services and otherwise comply with the terms of these deployment arrangements, we could incur additional unexpected expenses and losses in connection with these arrangements.. In the event of an early termination of these arrangements with our television service provider customers, we would be forced to recognize any deferred development costs which we have incurred but not recognized without corresponding revenues from development or subscription fees, and in such an event we would be forced to incur unexpected losses. From time to time during development and integration for our television service provider customers, we or our customers may request to revise certain terms of our contracts or statements of work to modify the deliverables required or to otherwise address circumstances and technological requirements not anticipated by the parties when the contract or statement of work was originally agreed upon. Additionally, from time to time, we have experienced delays and may in the future experience delays in our development work with our television service provider customers, which may cause us to modify the terms of those arrangements. If we were to fail in modifying the terms of these arrangements to the satisfaction of both parties and the arrangements were unexpectedly terminated early, we would have to recognize immediately any associated deferred costs that may no longer be deemed recoverable. In such an event that we would have to recognize early such deferred development and integration costs, we would be required to do so without any corresponding revenue in which case we would incur unexpected losses which would harm our business.. We face risks from the consolidation or change of control of television service providers both in the U.S. and internationally. We have marketing and distribution agreements with a number of different television service providers for the licensing and distribution of our technology, products, and services. To the extent our existing television service providers merge or are acquired by other television service providers, we risk losing an existing customer whose new owner may have an existing relationship with a competitor or an existing relationship with us on more favorable terms, or we risk the loss of a potential customer who otherwise may have been interested in our products and services but whose new owner may not. We may also experience delays in. 19. Table of Contents. adoption of our products or services due to a change in control of such television service providers. In the past year, Vodafone acquired our customer Ono and AT&T acquired our customer DIRECTV. In the event of such consolidation in the television industry, our business could be harmed by the loss of existing or potential future customers opportunities.. We face intense competition from a number of sources, which may impair our revenues, increase our subscription acquisition costs, and hinder our ability to generate new subscriptions.. The DVR and advanced television solutions market is rapidly evolving, and we face significant competition. Moreover, the market for in-home entertainment is intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological change. As a result of this intense competition, we could incur increased subscription acquisition costs that could adversely affect our ability to reach or sustain profitability in the future. If new technologies (such as internet streaming) render the DVR market obsolete, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to cover our expenses and obligations.. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the DVR and advanced television solutions market are brand recognition and awareness, functionality, ease of use, mobility, personalization, content availability, and pricing. We currently see two primary categories of DVR competitors and advanced television solutions competitors: DVRs and advanced television solutions (e.g. VOD, TVE (\"TV Everywhere\"), and OTT capabilities) offered by telecommunications, cable and satellite operators and DVRs and other advanced television solutions (e.g. VOD based services on set-top boxes or other consumer electronic devices (TV, BluRay player, tablets, streaming boxes, etc.) which stream content remotely) offered by consumer electronics and software companies. To the extent consumer preferences for the consumption of video evolve to favor advanced television solutions that stream video (such as VOD, TV Everywhere (the delivery of linear TV channels and video via website and mobile and tablet apps), and OTT services (such as Netflix, Amazon Instant Video, Sling TV, and other services) to devices other than the TV rather than record TV on a DVR, consumers may be less likely to purchase our products and services and our business could be harmed.. Our revenues depend both upon our ability to successfully negotiate agreements with service provider customers and, in turn, upon our customers' successful commercialization of our licensed products and technology. We face competition from companies such as Ericsson (Mediaroom), Arris, Cisco/NDS, and Rovi. Such companies may offer more economically attractive agreements to service providers and manufacturers of DVRs. We also face competition from solutions that MSOs may internally develop such as the Comcast X1, DISH Hopper, and DIRECTV Genie.. We face a number of competitive challenges in the sale and marketing of the TiVo service and products that enable the retail version of the TiVo service.. Our success depends upon the successful retail marketing of the TiVo service and related DVRs.. We compete with other consumer electronics products and home entertainment services for consumer spending. DVRs and the TiVo service compete in markets that are crowded with other consumer electronics products and home entertainment services. The competition for consumer spending is intense, and many consumers may choose other products and services over ours. DVRs compete for consumer spending with products such as DVD players, satellite television systems, personal computers, video game consoles, and other dedicated over-the-top video streaming devices (such as Roku, AppleTV, and Amazon Fire TV). The TiVo service competes with home entertainment services such as cable and satellite television, movie rentals, pay-per-view, video on demand, and mail-order DVD services. Such competition could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Many of these products or services have established markets, broad user bases, and proven consumer acceptance. In addition, many of the manufacturers and distributors of these competing devices and services have substantially greater brand recognition, market presence, distribution channels, advertising and marketing budgets and promotional activities, and more strategic partners. Faced with this competition, we may be unable to effectively differentiate our DVRs and the TiVo service from other consumer electronics devices or entertainment services and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be harmed.. Consumers may not be willing to pay for our products and services, we may be forced to discount our products and services, and we may introduce products and services at lower price points which could impact our revenues. Many of our customers already pay monthly fees for cable or satellite television. We must convince these consumers to pay a separate subscription fee to receive the TiVo service. Consumers may perceive the TiVo service and related DVR and non-DVR products as too expensive. In order to continue to grow our subscription base, we have lowered the price of our DVRs in the past and raised our subscription pricing and. 20. Table of Contents. alternatively we may choose to raise our DVR pricing and lower our subscription pricing in the future. As a result of lower hardware pricing and higher subscription pricing, the profitability of such newly acquired customers was shifted outward in time as we need to first recoup the expenses incurred in connection with the sale of a heavily subsidized DVR. For competitive and financial reasons, we may need to change the pricing of our DVRs and our service fees again in the future. Furthermore, we have introduced non-DVR products such as TiVo Mini meant to expand the TiVo experience throughout the home, but such a product has a lower hardware cost and lower associated service fees and it may impact our total revenues as well as our ARPU per subscription to the extent these products are offered at lower subscription price points. The availability of competing services that do not require subscription fees or that are enabled by low or no cost DVRs will harm our ability to effectively attract and retain subscriptions, and in such an event our business would be harmed.. Growth in our TiVo-Owned subscriptions and related revenues could be harmed by offerings by our television distribution partners who also would be able to offer the TiVo service in the future. Our ability to grow our TiVo-Owned subscriptions and related revenues could be harmed by competition from our television distribution partners, such as RCN, Suddenlink, and others, who may be able to offer TiVo-branded DVR and non-DVR solutions to their customers at more attractive pricing than we may be able to offer the TiVo service to our TiVo-Owned customers. Furthermore, if we are unable to sufficiently differentiate the TiVo service offered direct to consumers by TiVo from the TiVo-branded DVR solutions offered by our licensing partners, customers who would have otherwise chosen the TiVo service offered direct to consumers by us may instead choose to purchase the TiVo-branded DVR solution from our licensing partners. Additionally, to the extent that potential customers defer subscribing to the TiVo service in order to wait for announced, but not yet deployed in their geographic area, TiVo-branded DVR solutions from our licensing partners, the growth of our TiVo-Owned subscriptions could be reduced. If our TiVo-Owned subscriptions continue to decrease, our business will be harmed.. We compete with digital cable, satellite, and telecommunications DVRs. Cable, satellite, and telecommunications service providers are accelerating deployment of integrated cable and satellite receivers with DVRs that bundle DVR services with other digital services and do not require their customers to purchase hardware. If we are not able to enter into agreements with these service providers to embed the TiVo service into their offerings, our ability to attract their subscribers to the TiVo service will be limited and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be harmed.. We also expect to compete with digital cable, satellite, and telecommunications services that provide consumers with DVR and VOD-based services via a broadband connection on an on-demand basis. We are aware of at least two U.S. cable operators, Cablevision, Inc. and Comcast, as well as a number of international television operators, which have deployed server-based DVR technology. To the extent that cable, satellite, or telecommunication operators offer regular television programming with DVR services as part of their server-based VOD offerings or offer linear television programming in other VOD-based broadband delivered services, consumers would have an alternate means of watching time-shifted shows besides physical DVRs. In such an event, competitors would be able to deploy competing DVR services or equivalent VOD-based viewing services (such as the increasing TV Everywhere services from most pay TV) without the expense of deploying DVR hardware in consumer homes. Such an event would impair our ability to compete in a cost-effective manner with these television providers as well as attract and retain customers, in which case, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be harmed.. It is expensive to establish a strong brand. We believe that establishing and strengthening the TiVo brand is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our products and services and to establishing key strategic relationships. The importance of brand recognition will increase as current and potential competitors enter the DVR market with competing products and services. Our ability to promote and position our brand depends largely on the success of our marketing efforts and our ability to provide high quality services and customer support. These activities are expensive and we may not generate a corresponding increase in subscriptions or revenues to justify these costs. If we fail to establish and maintain our brand, or if our brand value is damaged or diluted, we may be unable to attract subscriptions and effectively compete in the DVR market.. We rely on our retail partners and service providers to market and distribute our products and services. In addition to our own efforts, our retail partners distribute DVRs that enable the TiVo service. We rely on their sales forces, marketing budgets, and brand images to promote and support DVRs and the TiVo service. Additionally, we now have arrangements with many service providers, both domestically and internationally, to market and promote the TiVo service. We expect to continue to rely on our relationships with these companies to promote and support DVRs and other devices that enable the TiVo service. The loss of one or more of these companies could require us to undertake more of these activities on our own. Further, if any of our service providers elect to support a competing technology, our business could be harmed despite the fact that many of our. 21. Table of Contents. agreements with our service providers include exclusivity provisions, minimum deployment commitments, or minimum financial commitments. As a result, we would spend significant resources to support the TiVo service and DVRs and other devices that enable the TiVo service or would otherwise see a reduction in new and existing service provider deployments from such service providers. The failure of one or more of these companies to provide anticipated marketing support will require us to divert more of our limited resources to marketing the TiVo service. If we are unable to provide adequate marketing support for DVRs and the TiVo service, our ability to attract additional subscriptions to the TiVo service will be limited.. To remain competitive, we must continue to innovate and develop new features and products and make our customers aware of the benefits of our video products. DVR products and services and consumer video technology generally are a continually evolving . Retailers, consumers, and potential partners may perceive little or no benefit from DVR products and services in the evolving consumer electronics world. Many consumers are not aware of the benefits of our video products, including our DVR and non-DVR products, such as the ability to seamlessly integrate linear and broadband/VOD-based video, time-shifting of linear television, fast forward through advertisements/commercials, transfer of recorded programs to portable devices, and access to web based and broadband delivered content not available through traditional cable and satellite operators, and therefore may not value the benefits of the TiVo service and products. We will need to continue to devote a substantial amount of time and resources to educate consumers and promote our products in order to increase our subscriptions. We cannot be sure that a broad base of consumers will ultimately subscribe to the TiVo service or purchase the products that enable the TiVo service.. We face competitive risks in the provision of an entertainment offering involving the distribution of digital content through broadband, including from broadband devices connected directly to the TV or through a PC or other device connected to the TV or to mobile devices.. We have previously launched access to the entertainment offerings of Amazon Video on Demand service, Netflix, Hulu Plus, VUDU, Pandora, and others for the distribution of digital content directly to broadband-connected TiVo devices. Our offerings with Amazon Video On Demand, Netflix, Hulu Plus, Pandora, and others typically involve no significant long-term commitments. We face competitive, technological, and business risks in our ongoing provision of an entertainment offering involving the distribution of digital content through broadband to consumer televisions with Amazon, Netflix, and others, including the availability of premium and high-definition content, as well as the speed and quality of the delivery of such content to TiVo devices. For instance, we face increased competition from a growing number of broadband-enabled devices from providers such as Roku, AppleTV, Amazon, and Google that provide broadband delivered digital content directly to a consumer's television connected to such a device. Additionally, we face competition from online content providers and other PC software providers who deliver digital content directly to a consumer's personal computer, which in some cases may then be viewed on a consumer's television. If we are unable to provide a competitive entertainment offering with Amazon Instant Video, Netflix, Hulu Plus, Pandora, and our other partners, on our own, or an equivalent offering with other third-parties, the attractiveness of the TiVo service to new subscribers would be harmed as consumers increasingly look for new ways to receive and view digital content and our ability to retain and attract subscribers would be harmed.. Our ability to retain our current customers may continue to decrease in the future which could increase our TiVo-Owned subscription monthly churn rate and could cause our revenues to suffer.. We believe factors such as increased competition in the DVR marketplace, failure by us to continue to innovate and deliver new features on current deployed DVRs as well as deliver new DVR models in the future, changing television technologies such as the increasing penetration of high definition, the use of switched digital technology to deliver encrypted digital television signals, and the failure of cable operators in the future to transmit both an analog and digital transmission thus impacting our Series2 DVRs, increased price sensitivity in the consumer base, any deterioration in the quality of our service, and product lifetime subscriptions no longer using our service may cause our TiVo-Owned subscription monthly churn rate to increase. If we are unable to retain our subscriptions by limiting the factors that increase subscription churn, our ability to grow our subscription base could suffer and our revenues would be harmed.. The product lifetime subscriptions to the TiVo service that we currently are obligated to service commit us to providing services for an indefinite period. The revenue we generate from these subscriptions may be insufficient to cover future costs and will negatively impact our TiVo-Owned Average Revenue per Subscription.. We offer a product lifetime subscription option to the TiVo service that commits us to provide the TiVo service for as long as the DVR is in service. We receive product lifetime subscription fees for the TiVo service in advance. 22. Table of Contents. and amortize these fees as subscription revenue over 66 months for product lifetime subscriptions which is our current estimate of the service life of the DVR. If these product lifetime subscriptions use the DVR for longer than anticipated, we will incur costs such as telecommunications and customer support costs without a corresponding subscription revenue stream and therefore will be required to fund ongoing costs of service from other sources, such as advertising revenue. Additionally, if these product lifetime subscriptions use the DVR for longer than the period in which we recognize revenue, our average revenue per subscription (\"ARPU\") for our TiVo-Owned subscriptions will be negatively impacted as we continue to count these customers as subscriptions without corresponding subscription revenue thus lowering our average revenues across our TiVo-Owned subscription base. As of January 31, 2016, we had approximately 153,000 product lifetime subscriptions that had exceeded the 66 month period we use to recognize product lifetime subscription revenues and had made contact with the TiVo service within the prior six-month period. We will continue to monitor the useful life of a TiVo-enabled DVR and the impact of higher churn, increased competition, and compatibility of our existing TiVo units with high-definition programming. Future results will allow us to determine if our useful life is shorter or longer than currently estimated, in which case we may revise the estimated life and we would recognize revenues from this source over a shorter or longer period.. We face intense competition for advertising and research revenues.. DVR services, in general, and TiVo, specifically, compete with other advertising media such as print, radio, television, Internet, VOD, and other emerging advertising platforms for a share of advertisers' total advertising budgets. If advertisers do not perceive digital video recording services, in general, and TiVo specifically, as an effective advertising medium, they may be reluctant to advertise on the TiVo service. In addition, advertisers may not support or embrace the TiVo technology due to a belief that our technology's ability to fast-forward through commercials will reduce the effectiveness of general television advertising.. We may not fully realize the anticipated positive impacts to future financial results from our restructuring efforts.. We have undertaken recent restructuring efforts to streamline operations and reduce operating expenses. Our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from our restructuring efforts within expected time frames is subject to many estimates and assumptions, and may vary materially based on factors such as market conditions and the effect of our restructuring efforts on our work force. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will fully realize the anticipated positive impacts to future financial results from our current or future restructuring efforts. If our estimates and assumptions are incorrect or if other unforeseen events occur, we may not achieve the cost savings expected from such restructurings, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The nature of some of our business relationships may restrict our ability to operate freely in the future.. 23. Table of Contents. From time to time, we have engaged and may engage in the future in discussions with other parties concerning business relationships, which have and may in the future include equity investments by such parties in us or may include exclusivity provisions (such as geographic or product specific limitations), most favored customer limitations, and patent licensing arrangements. While we believe that such business relationships have historically enhanced our ability to finance and develop our business model or otherwise were justified by the terms of the particular relationship, the terms and conditions of such business relationships may place some restrictions on the operation of our business, including where we operate, who we work with, and what kinds of activities we may engage in, in the future.. Entertainment companies and other content owners may claim that some of the features of our DVRs violate copyright or trademark laws, which could force us to incur significant costs in defending such actions and affect our ability to market the TiVo service and the products that enable the TiVo service.. Although we have not been the subject of such actions to date, a past competitor's DVRs were the subject of several copyright infringement lawsuits by a number of major entertainment companies, including the major television networks. These lawsuits alleged that the competitor's DVRs violate copyright laws by allowing users to skip commercials, delete recordings only when instructed and use the Internet to send recorded materials to other users. TiVo-enabled DVRs have some similar features, including the ability to fast-forward as well as skip (in certain newer models) through commercials, the ability to speed up the play back of recordings (in certain newer models), the ability to delete recordings only when instructed and the ability to transfer recordings from a TiVo-enabled DVR to a personal computer and/or portable media devices. Based on market or consumer pressures, we may decide in the future to add additional features that may be objectionable to entertainment companies. If similar actions are filed against us based on current or future features of our DVRs and non-DVR products, entertainment companies may seek injunctions to prevent us from including these features and/or damages. Such litigation can be costly, even if we prevail in the litigation, and may divert the efforts of our management. Furthermore, if we were ordered to remove features from our DVRs or other products, we may experience increased difficulty in marketing the TiVo service and related TiVo products and may suffer reduced revenues as a result.. We depend on a limited number of third-parties to manufacture, distribute, and supply critical components, technologies, assemblies, and services for the DVRs that enable the TiVo service. We may be unable to operate our business if these parties do not perform their obligations or we are unable to incorporate such critical components or technologies into our products.. The TiVo service is enabled through the use of a DVR manufactured for us by a third-party contract manufacturer. In addition, we rely on sole suppliers for a number of key components and technologies for these DVRs and other devices we manufacture. We also rely on third-parties with whom we outsource supply-chain activities related to inventory warehousing, order fulfillment, distribution, and other direct sales logistics. We cannot be sure that these parties will perform their obligations as expected or that any revenue, cost savings, or other benefits will be derived from the efforts of these parties. If any of these parties breaches or terminates its agreement with us or otherwise fails to perform its obligations in a timely manner or we are unable to purchase or license such third party components or technologies, we may be delayed or prevented from commercializing our products and services. Because our relationships with these parties are non-exclusive, they may also support products and services that compete directly with us, or offer similar or greater support to our competitors. Any of these events could require us to undertake unforeseen additional responsibilities or devote additional resources to commercialize our products and services or require us to remove certain features or functionalities from our products which may decrease the commercial appeal of our products for our customers. Any of these outcomes would harm our ability to compete effectively and achieve increased market acceptance and brand recognition.. In addition, we face the following risks in relying on these third-parties:. If our manufacturing relationships are not successful, we may be unable to satisfy demand for our products and services. We manufacture DVRs and non-DVRs that enable the TiVo service through a third-party contract manufacturer, Flextronics. Delays, product shortages, and other problems could impair our distribution and brand image and make it difficult for us to attract subscriptions and service our Pay-TV Operator customers. In addition, as we are dependent on Flextronics as our sole third-party contract manufacturer, the loss of this manufacturer would require us to identify and contract with alternative sources of manufacturing, which we may be unable to do or which could prove time-consuming and expensive.. We are dependent on sole suppliers for key components, technologies and services. If these suppliers. 24. Table of Contents. fail to perform their obligations or we are unable to purchase or license such third party components, technologies or services, we may be unable to find alternative suppliers or deliver our products and services to our customers on time or with the features and functionality they expect. We currently rely on sole suppliers for a number of the key components used in the TiVo-enabled DVRs and the TiVo service, of which we may not have written supply agreements with certain sole suppliers for key components or services for our products. For example, Broadcom is the sole supplier of the system controller for our DVR. We do not currently have a long-term written supply agreement with Broadcom although we do have limited rights to continue to purchase from Broadcom in the event Broadcom notifies us a product is being discontinued. Therefore, Broadcom is not contractually obligated to supply us with these key components on a long-term basis or at all. In addition, because we are dependent on sole suppliers for key components and services, our ability to manufacture our DVRs and other devices is subject to increased risks of supply shortages (without immediately available alternatives), exposure to unexpected cost increases in such sole supplied components, as well as other risks to our business if we were to fail to comply with conflict mineral requirements due to our reliance on these suppliers. Additionally, certain features and functionalities of our TiVo service and DVRs are dependent on third party components and technologies. If we are unable to purchase or license such third party components or technologies, we would be unable to offer certain related features and functionalities to our customers. In such a case, the desirability of our products to our customers could be reduced, thus harming our business.. Gracenote (formerly known as Tribune Media Services, Inc.) is the sole supplier of the program guide data for the TiVo service. Gracenote, is the current sole supplier of program guide data for the TiVo service. Our current Television Listings Data Agreement with Gracenote originally became effective on May 14, 2007 and had an initial term of five years which TiVo has renewed for four additional years, and will expire on May 14, 2016. If we are unable to renew our agreement with Gracenote on terms acceptable to TiVo, our business could be harmed. The agreement provides each party with a termination right if the other party becomes controlled by certain third parties. If Gracenote breaches its obligation to provide us with data, rejects the agreement or otherwise fails to perform its obligations under our agreement, we would be unable to provide certain aspects of the TiVo service to our customers until we are able to incorporate an alternate source of guide data. We currently do not use any alternative television guide data nor have a license to use any alternative guide data. If we were forced to seek an alternative provider of television guide data, there would be significant cost and delay involved in integrating such an alternative source of guide data should we do so in the future. Depending upon the amount of notice we receive of such a breach or rejection of our agreement or notice that we will be unable to renew our agreement by the time it expires, and the amount of development work required by us to incorporate an alternate source of guide data, we may be subject to a period of time in which we are unable to provide the TiVo service to our customers and distribution partners. In such an event, our business would be harmed.. If our arrangements with Broadcom or Gracenote or with our third-party contract manufacturer or other suppliers of critical third party components or technologies were to terminate or expire without a replacement arrangement in place, or if we or our manufacturers were unable to obtain sufficient quantities of these components, technologies, or required program guide data from our suppliers, our search for alternate suppliers could result in significant delays, added expense or disruption in product or service availability.. We depend upon third-parties to provide supply chain services related to inventory management, order fulfillment, and direct sales logistics. We rely on third-party vendors to provide cost-effective and efficient supply chain services. Among other activities, these outsourced services relate to direct sales logistics, including order fulfillment, inventory management and warehousing, and distribution of inventory to third-party retailers. If one or several of our third-party supply chain partners were to discontinue services for us, our ability to fulfill direct sales orders and distribute inventory timely, cost effectively, or at all, would be hindered which could in turn harm our business.. We are dependent on our major retail partners for distribution of our products to consumers. We currently rely on our relationships with major retail distributors including Best Buy, Amazon, and others for distribution of TiVo-enabled DVRs. We do not typically enter into long-term volume commitments with our major retail distributors. If one or several of our major retail partners were to discontinue selling our products, the volume of TiVo-enabled DVRs sold to consumers could decrease which could in turn harm our business.. We face significant risks in overseeing our outsourcing of manufacturing processes as well as in the management of our inventory, and failure to properly oversee our manufacturing processes or to effectively manage our inventory levels may result in product recalls or supply imbalances that could harm our business.. 25. Table of Contents. We have contracted for the manufacture of certain TiVo-enabled DVRs with a contract manufacturer. We sell these units to retailers and distributors, as well as through our own online sales channels. Product manufacturing is outside our core business and we face significant risks if our contract manufacturer does not perform as expected. If we fail to effectively oversee the manufacturing process, including the work performed by our contract manufacturer, we could suffer from product recalls, poorly performing product, and higher than anticipated warranty costs.. In connection with our manufacturing operations, we maintain a finished goods inventory of the DVR units we produce throughout the year. Due to the seasonality in our business and our long-lead time product development and manufacturing cycles, we need to make forecasts of demand and commit significant resources towards manufacturing of our DVR units well in advance of our peak selling periods. We also have risks with respect to changing hardware forecasts with our television service provider customers who may revise their purchase forecasts lower or higher after we have committed manufacturing resources to meeting such forecasts due to long-lead times and prior to the time in which such television service provider forecasts become contractually binding. As such, we are subject to significant risks in managing the inventory needs of our business during the year, including estimates of the appropriate mix of demand across our older and newer DVR models. If we were to overestimate demand for our DVRs, we may end up with inventories that exceed currently forecasted demand which would require us to record additional write-downs. If we were to underestimate demand for our DVRs, we may end up with inventory shortages causing us to fail to meet actual customer demand. Should actual market conditions differ from our estimates, our future results of operations could be materially affected. In the future, we may be required to record write-downs of finished products and materials on-hand and/or additional charges for excess purchase commitments as a result of future changes in our sales forecasts.. Breaches of our cybersecurity systems could degrade our ability to conduct our business operations and deliver products and services to our MSO and retail customers, delay our ability to recognize revenue, compromise the integrity of our products and services, result in significant data losses and the theft of our intellectual property, damage our reputation, result in the breach and termination of our agreements with our MSO customers, expose us to liability to third parties and require us to incur significant additional costs to maintain the security of our networks and data.. We increasingly depend upon our IT systems to conduct virtually all of our business operations, ranging from our internal operations and product development activities to the provision of the TiVo service to our MSO and retail customers to our marketing and sales efforts as well as communications with our MSO and retail customers and business partners. Computer hackers and other criminal elements have attempted to penetrate our network security and our website. Such cyberattacks threaten to misappropriate our proprietary information and cause interruption of our ability to provide the TiVo service to our MSO and retail customers and disrupt our back-end IT services. Because the techniques used by such computer programmers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software, services, and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including \"bugs\" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of such systems, services and technologies. We have also outsourced a number of our business functions, including manufacturing, software development, and other activities, to third party contractors, and our business operations also depend, in part, on the success of our contractors' own cybersecurity measures. Similarly, we rely upon distributors, resellers, and third party manufacturers and licensees to sell our products and our sales operations depend, in part, on the reliability of their cybersecurity measures. Additionally, we depend upon our employees to appropriately handle confidential data and deploy our IT resources in safe and secure fashion that does not expose our network systems to security breaches and the loss of data. Accordingly, if our cybersecurity systems and those of our contractors fail to protect against unauthorized access, sophisticated cyberattacks and the mishandling of data by our employees and contractors, our ability to conduct our business effectively could be damaged in a number of ways, including:. •sensitive data regarding our business and our customers' businesses, including intellectual property and other proprietary data, could be stolen;. • our electronic communications systems, including email and other methods, could be disrupted, and our ability to conduct our business operations could be seriously damaged until such systems can be restored and secured;. •our ability to process customer orders and electronically deliver products and services could be degraded, and our distribution channels could be disrupted, resulting in delays in revenue recognition;. 26. Table of Contents. •defects and security vulnerabilities could be exploited or introduced into our software products, thereby damaging the reputation and perceived reliability and security of our products and potentially making the data systems of our customers vulnerable to further data loss and cyberincidents; and. •personally identifiable data of our customers, employees and business partners could be stolen or lost.. Should any of the above events occur, we could be subject to significant claims for liability from our customers, and regulatory actions from governmental agencies, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights could be compromised and our reputation and competitive position could be significantly harmed. Also, the regulatory and contractual actions, litigations, investigations, fines, penalties and liabilities relating to data breaches that result in losses of personally identifiable or credit card information of users of our services can be significant in terms of fines and reputational impact and necessitate changes to our business operations that may be disruptive to us. Additionally, we could incur significant costs in order to upgrade our cybersecurity systems and remediate damages. Consequently, our financial performance and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Regulations related to \"conflict minerals\" may force us to incur additional expenses, may make our supply chain more complex and may result in damage to our reputation with customers.. Under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC adopted new requirements for companies that use certain minerals and metals, known as conflict minerals, in their products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third-parties. These requirements will require companies to perform due diligence, disclose and report whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. These new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability, and pricing of minerals used in the manufacture of our products and the numerous components that go into our products. For instance, a number of our key components in our products are supplied from a single source, and finding alternatives components that would be conflict mineral free in some cases could be expensive and cause delays in our ability to manufacture our products and meet customer demand. In addition, we have and will incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals and metals used in our products. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins for these minerals and metals used in our products through our due diligence procedures, which may harm our reputation. In such event, we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict mineral free.. We face significant risks to our business when we engage in the outsourcing of engineering work, including outsourcing of software work oversees, which, if not properly managed, could result in the loss of valuable intellectual property, increased costs due to inefficient and poor work product, and subject us to export control restrictions which could impede or prevent us from working with partners internationally, which could harm our business, including our financial results, reputation, and brand.. We have from time-to-time outsourced engineering work related to the design, development, and manufacturing of our products, typically to save money and gain access to additional engineering resources. We have worked, and expect to in the future work, with companies located in jurisdictions outside of the United States, including, but not limited to, Romania, India, Ukraine, the United Kingdom, and Mexico. We have limited experience in the outsourcing of engineering, manufacturing, and other work to third-parties located internationally that operate under different laws and regulations than those in the United States. If we are unable to properly manage and oversee the outsourcing of this engineering, manufacturing and other work related to our products, we could suffer the loss of valuable intellectual property, or the loss of the ability to claim such intellectual property, including patents, trademarks, trade secrets, and copyrights. We could also be subjected to increased regulatory and other scrutiny related to export control restrictions which could impede or prevent us from working with international partners. Additionally, instead of saving money, we could in fact incur significant additional costs as a result of inefficient or delayed engineering services or poor work product. As a result our business would be harmed, including our financial results, reputation, and brand.. Product defects, system failures, or interruptions to the TiVo service may have a negative impact on our revenues, damage our reputation and decrease our ability to attract new customers as well as remain in contractual compliance with our existing MSO customers.. Our ability to provide uninterrupted service and high quality customer support depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. Our computer hardware and other operating systems for the TiVo service are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, and similar events. They are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, and similar misconduct. Our ability to provide uninterrupted service may also be. 27. Table of Contents. impacted by internal system errors, bugs, and software deployment issues which may cause us to not meet our obligations to MSO customers. These types of interruptions in the TiVo service may reduce our revenues and profits, including possibly resulting in termination of existing MSO customer contracts. We currently house the server hardware that delivers the TiVo service at only one location; however, in the event that location became unavailable, we do have a backup facility capable of delivering the TiVo service. Our business also will be harmed if consumers or our MSO customers believe our service is unreliable. In addition to placing increased burdens on our engineering staff, service outages create a high volume of customer questions and complaints that must be responded to by our customer support personnel. Any frequent or persistent system failures could irreparably damage our reputation and brand and possibly trigger requests for refunds on subscription fees and hardware purchases and possible consumer litigation.. We have detected in the past and may continue to detect software and manufacturing errors in our products in the future. These problems can affect system uptime and result in significant warranty and repair problems, which could cause customer service and customer relations problems. Correcting errors in our software or fixing defects in our products requires significant time and resources, which could delay product releases and affect market acceptance of the TiVo service. Any delivery by us of products or upgrades with undetected material product defects or software errors could harm our credibility and market acceptance of the DVRs and the TiVo service. In addition, defective products could cause a risk of injury that may subject us to litigation or cause us to have to undertake a product recall. For example, we previously became aware of occasions where a part came loose from the remote control device that comes with the DVRs that enable the TiVo service, including occurrences where a young child gagged on or ingested a part of the remote control device. While we are unaware of any injuries resulting from the use of our products, we may be subject to products liability litigation in the future. Additionally, if we are required to repair or replace any of our products, we could incur significant costs, which would harm our business, including our financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to create or maintain multiple revenue streams, we may not be able to cover our expenses and this could cause our revenues to decrease and net losses to increase.. Our long-term success will depend on securing additional revenue from such areas as:. •licensing;. •advertising;. •hardware sales. •data analytics, such as audience research data; and. •electronic commerce.. In order to derive substantial revenues from these activities, we will need to attract and retain a large and growing base of subscriptions to the TiVo service. We also will need to work closely with television advertisers, cable, satellite, and telecommunications network operators, electronic commerce companies, and consumer electronics manufacturers to develop products and services in these areas. We may not be able to work effectively with these parties to develop products that generate revenues that are sufficient to justify their costs. We also may be unable to work with, or to continue working with, these parties to distribute video and collect and distribute data or other information to provide these product or services. In addition, we are currently obligated to share a portion of these revenues with several of our strategic partners in exchange for access to certain technologies or services, such as certain cable operator VOD catalogs. Any inability to attract and retain a large and growing group of subscriptions or inability to attract new strategic partners or maintain and extend our relationships with our current strategic partners would seriously harm our ability to support new services and develop new revenue streams.. If we are unable to introduce new products or services, or if our new products and services are unsuccessful, our subscription base and revenues may suffer.. To attract and retain subscriptions and generate revenues, we must continue to maintain and add to our functionality and content and introduce products and services which embody new technologies and, in some instances, new industry standards. This challenge will require hardware and software improvements, as well as maintaining and adding new collaborations with programmers, advertisers, network operators, hardware manufacturers, and other strategic partners. These activities require significant time and resources and may require us to develop and promote new ways of generating revenue with established companies in the television industry. These companies include television advertisers, cable and satellite network operators, electronic commerce companies, and consumer electronics manufacturers. In each of these examples, a small number of large companies dominate a major portion of the market and may be reluctant to work with us to develop new. 28. Table of Contents. products and services for digital video recorders as well as maintain our current functionality. If we are unable to maintain and further develop and improve the TiVo service or maintain and expand our operations in a cost-effective or timely manner, our ability to attract and retain customers and generate revenue will suffer.. We must manage product transitions successfully in order to remain competitive.. The introduction of a new product or product line is a complex task, involving significant expenditures in research and development, training, promotion and sales channel development, and management of existing product inventories to reduce the cost associated with returns and slow moving inventory. As new products are introduced, we intend to monitor closely the inventory of products to be replaced, and to phase out their manufacture in a controlled manner. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to execute product transitions in this manner or that product transitions will be executed without harming our operating results. Failure to develop products with required features and performance levels on a cost-effective basis or any delay in bringing a new product to market could significantly reduce our revenues and margins and harm our competitive position.. We may not receive significant revenue from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all.. Developing TiVo products and integrating acquired technology into existing platforms is expensive, and these investments often require substantial time to generate returns. Our strategy involves significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain and improve our competitive position. However, we cannot ensure that we will receive significant, if any, revenue from these investments.. If we fail to manage the growth and complexity of our activities, it could disrupt our business and impair our ability to generate revenues.. The growth in our subscription base and increasing complexity of our sources of other revenue have placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources, and systems. Specific risks we face as our business expands include:. Any inability of our systems to accommodate future subscription growth, or any inability of our TiVo.com website to handle customer traffic, may cause service interruptions or delay our introduction of new services and limit our ability to sell the TiVo service and TiVo-enabled DVRs. We internally developed many of the systems we use to provide the TiVo service and perform other processing functions. The ability of these systems to scale as we add new subscriptions is unproven. We must continually improve these systems to accommodate subscription growth and to add features and functionality to the TiVo service. Our inability to add software and hardware or to upgrade our technology, systems or network infrastructure could adversely affect our business, cause service interruptions or delay the introduction of new services. Our inability to manage customer traffic and sales volume through our TiVo.com website could limit our ability to sell the TiVo service and TiVo-enabled DVRs in the future. If our website were to become unavailable for a significant amount of time, our ability to provide certain features of the TiVo service and our ability to service customers and sell the TiVo service and TiVo-enabled DVRs would be harmed.. We need to provide acceptable customer support, particularly with respect to installation of DVRs and CableCARDsTM, and any inability to do so would harm our brand and ability to retain current subscriptions and generate new subscriptions. Our ability to increase sales, retain current and future subscriptions and strengthen our brand will depend in part upon the quality of our customer support operations, including our ability to assist customers with installation and CableCARDTM-related issues. Some customers require significant support when installing the DVR and required CableCARDsTM for our HD DVRs and becoming acquainted with the features and functionality of the TiVo service. We have limited experience with widespread deployment of our products, services, and CableCARDTM installation requirements to a diverse customer base, and we may not have adequate personnel to provide the levels of support that our customers require. In addition, we have entered into agreements with third-parties to provide this support and will rely on them for a substantial portion of our customer support functions. Furthermore, the installation of a CableCARDTM for TiVo customers may be performed by third-party cable operators and TiVo would then be dependent on such parties to timely service new subscribers to enable their receipt of digital and premium cable content. Our failure to provide adequate customer support for the TiVo service, DVRs, and a CableCARDTM will damage our reputation in the DVR and consumer electronics marketplace and strain our relationships with customers and consumer electronics manufacturers. This could prevent us from gaining new or retaining existing subscriptions and could cause harm to our reputation and brand.. 29. Table of Contents. We need to improve our operational and financial systems to support our growth in the future, increasingly complex business arrangements, and rules governing revenue and expense recognition and any inability to do so will adversely affect our billing and reporting.. We have increasingly complex business arrangements, and the rules which govern revenue and expense recognition in our business are increasingly complex as well. To manage the expected growth of our operations and increasing complexity, we will need to improve our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and continue to increase systems automation to reduce reliance on manual operations. Any inability to do so will affect our billing and reporting. Our current and planned systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our complex arrangements and upcoming rules governing revenue and expense recognition for our future operations and expected growth. Delays or problems associated with our operational and financial systems and controls could adversely affect our relationships with our customers; cause harm to our reputation and brand; and result in errors in our financial and other reporting.. The nature of our business requires the application of complex revenue and expense recognition rules and the current legislative and regulatory environment affecting U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (\"GAAP\") is uncertain and volatile, and significant changes in current principles could affect our financial statements going forward.. The accounting rules and regulations that we must comply with are complex. Recent actions and public comments from the Securities Exchange Commission and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the \"FASB\") have focused on the integrity of financial reporting generally. In addition, many companies' accounting policies are being subject to heightened scrutiny by regulators and the public. Further, the accounting rules and regulations are continually changing in ways that could materially impact our financial statements. For example, in May 2014, the FASB issued a new accounting guidance on revenue recognition, Accounting Standards Update (\"ASU\") No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), that becomes effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. The standard permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. We have not yet selected a transition method and continue to evaluate the impact that this guidance will have on our financial condition and results of operations. Regardless of the transition method, the application of this new guidance may result in exclusion of certain future licensing revenues from the statement of operations after the adoption date, which, despite no change in associated cash flows, could have a material adverse effect on our net income.. We have limited experience and face significant competition in providing service and operations internationally that are subject to different competitors, laws, regulations, and requirements than those in the United States and our inability to compete or comply with such laws, regulations, and requirements could harm our business, including our reputation and brand.. We have provided and expect to continue to provide the TiVo service in jurisdictions outside of the United States, such as the United Kingdom, Spain, Sweden, Mexico, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand. In 2015, we also acquired a Polish company Cubiware Sp. Z.o.o. which provides products and services globally including to customers in Africa, Middle East, Asia, Europe and Latin America. However, we have limited experience in international operations. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including privacy and other regulations that vary from country to country, exposure to conditions in the global financial markets, including the potential for further turmoil, economic volatility or global economic slowdown, currency exchange rate fluctuations and inflationary pressures, the requirements of local laws and customs relating to the distribution of content and the display and sale of advertising, import or export restrictions and changes in trade regulations, difficulties in developing, staffing and managing foreign operations, issues related to occupational safety and adherence to diverse local labor laws and regulations, and potentially adverse tax developments. In addition, we face significant competition and technological challenges in competing with other consumer electronics manufacturers in these jurisdictions and in complying with international laws and technological standards such the various digital over-the-air standards like DVB-T. If we are unable to properly manage our international operations or comply with international laws, regulations, and requirements, we could suffer damage to our reputation, brand, revenues and results of operations, and as a result our business would be harmed. We have partnered, and expect to continue to partner, with local broadcasters, cable television operators, and satellite providers to provide the TiVo service internationally and to sell Cubiware and Digitalsmiths products and services. Transactions with international partners may never materialize or may not result in significant revenue for us and may result in significant costs.. Privacy concerns and laws, evolving regulation of television viewing behavior as well as cloud computing, cross-border data transfer restrictions and other domestic or foreign regulations may limit the use and adoption of our services and adversely affect our business.. 30. Table of Contents. Regulation related to the provision of services similar to what TiVo provides through the Internet is increasing, as federal, state and foreign governments continue to adopt new laws and regulations addressing data privacy and the collection, processing, storage and use of personal information, including television viewing data. In some cases, foreign data privacy laws and regulations, such as the European Union's Data Protection Directive, and the country-specific laws and regulations that implement that directive, also govern the processing of personal information. Further, laws are increasingly aimed at the use of personal information for marketing purposes, such as the European Union's e-Privacy Directive, and the country-specific regulations that implement that directive. Such laws and regulations are subject to new and differing interpretations and may be inconsistent among jurisdictions. These and other requirements could reduce demand for our services or restrict our ability to store and process data or, in some cases, impact our ability to offer our services in certain locations or our customers' ability to deploy our solutions globally. For example, the European Court of Justice recently invalidated the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor framework that had been in place since 2000, which allowed companies to meet certain European legal requirements for the transfer of personal data from the European Economic Area to the United States. While other adequate legal mechanisms to lawfully transfer such data remain, and negotiations to replace the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor framework with a new agreement between U.S. and EU regulators are ongoing, the invalidation of the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor framework may result in different European data protection regulators applying differing standards for the transfer of personal data, which could result in increased regulation, cost of compliance and limitations on data transfer for TiVo and its customers. The costs of compliance with and other burdens imposed by laws, regulations and standards may limit the use and adoption of our services, reduce overall demand for our services, lead to significant fines, penalties or liabilities for noncompliance, or slow the pace at which we sign new operator customers outside the U.S., any of which could harm our business.. Entertainment companies, networks, or video distributors may claim that our advertising products or features may unintentionally violate copyright or trademark laws or otherwise unfairly compete with them, which could result in the blocking, stripping or failure to carry out our advertising products or features or force us to incur significant costs in defending such actions and affect our ability to generate advertising revenues.. Entertainment companies, networks, or video distributors may claim that our advertising products or features may unintentionally violate copyright or trademark laws, or otherwise unfairly compete with them, by being placed within, adjacent to, or on top of, existing video programming or advertising. Entertainment companies or video distributors may seek injunctions to prevent us from offering these products or features, seek damages and/or take other measures, such as blocking, stripping or refusing carriage to prevent us from selling or distributing our advertising products. If we were unable to sell or distribute our advertising products or features on our DVRs, we may suffer reduced revenues as a result.. We use open source software in our products, which could expose us to intellectual property infringement claims, require us to provide indemnification to third-parties, and delay or prevent development of certain products or features, any of which could harm our business.. TiVo's products include open source software. From time to time, we may face claims seeking to enforce the terms of an applicable open source license. Such claims could result in litigation, require us to seek licenses from third-parties in order to keep offering our software, require us to re-engineer our software, require us to release proprietary source code, require us to provide indemnification or otherwise subject us to liability to a customer or supplier, or require us to discontinue the sale of a product in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished in a timely manner, any of which could adversely affect our business.. If we release software that includes open source software licensed under version 3 of the GNU General Public License (\"GPLv3\"), even if it was software provided to us by a supplier, we may be required to provide end users with the ability to install modified software on their TiVo product, which could adversely affect our business.. If GPLv3 is widely adopted among the open source community, we may be unable to use future open source enhancements or components in our software, which could adversely affect our business.. DVRs could be the subject of future regulation relating to copyright law or evolving industry standards and practices that could adversely impact our business.. In the future, copyright statutes or case law could be changed to adversely impact our business by restricting the ability of consumers to temporally or spatially shift copyrighted materials for their own personal use. Our business would be harmed as a result. In addition, we are aware that some media companies may attempt to form organizations to develop standards and practices in the DVR industry. These organizations or individual media companies may attempt to require companies in the digital video recorder industry to obtain copyright or other licenses. Lawsuits or other actions taken by these types of organizations or companies could make it more difficult. 31. Table of Contents. for us to introduce new services, delay widespread consumer acceptance of our products and services, restrict our use of some television content, increase our costs, and adversely affect our business.. We have acquired and may acquire other companies and businesses and may not realize the expected benefits of these acquisitions.. We have acquired and expect to acquire other companies and businesses in the future. In February 2014, we acquired Digitalsmiths and in May 2015 we acquired Cubiware Sp. Z.o.o. Our future revenue growth and expansion of our business may rely on our successful integration of this and other acquisitions. We may incur significant costs in connection with our potential transactions, including acquisitions that are not consummated. Potential and completed acquisitions involve a number of risks. If any of the following acquisition-related risks occur, our business, operating results or financial condition could be seriously harmed:. •The failure to realize anticipated benefits such as cost savings and revenue enhancements;. •The failure to integrate and manage acquired products and businesses effectively;. •The failure to retain key employees of the acquired company or business;. •Difficulties in combining previously separate companies or businesses into a single unit;. •The substantial diversion of management's attention from day-to-day business when evaluating and negotiating these transactions and integrating an acquired company or business;. •The discovery, after completion of the acquisition, of unanticipated liabilities assumed from the acquired company, business or assets, such that we cannot realize the anticipated value of the acquisition;. •Difficulties related to integrating the products of an acquired company or business in, for example, distribution, engineering, licensing models, or customer support areas;. •Unanticipated costs; or. •The failure to understand and compete effectively in markets where we have limited experience.. Future acquisitions may involve the issuances of stock as full or partial payment of the purchase price for the acquired company or business, grants of restricted stock, restricted stock units, or stock options to employees of the acquired companies or businesses (which may be dilutive to existing stockholders), expenditure of substantial cash resources or the incurrence of a material amount of debt. These arrangements may impact our liquidity, financial position, and results of operations.. Compliance with federal securities laws and regulations is costly.. The federal securities laws and regulations, including the corporate governance and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and subsequent laws impose complex and continually changing regulatory requirements on our operations and reporting. These requirements impose comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, set stricter independence and financial expertise standards for audit committee members, and impose civil and criminal penalties for companies, their chief executive officers, chief financial officers, and directors for securities law violations. These requirements have increased and will continue to increase our legal compliance costs, increase the difficulty and expense in obtaining director and officer liability insurance, and make it harder for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors and/or qualified executive officers. Such developments could harm our results of operations and divert management's attention from business operations.. The investment of our cash, cash equivalents and investments in money market funds and marketable debt securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments.. Our investments include various money market funds and marketable debt securities, such as corporate debt securities, U.S. Treasury securities, bank certificates of deposit and commercial paper. Weakened financial markets have at times adversely impacted the general credit, liquidity, market prices and interest rates for these and other types of debt securities. Additionally, changes in monetary policy by the Federal Open Market Committee and concerns about the rising U.S. government debt level may cause a decrease in the purchasing power of the U.S. dollar and adversely affect our investment portfolio. Furthermore, if there is a default or downgrade of U.S. government or agency debt securities, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our liquidity, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. The financial market and monetary risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, or cash flows.. 32. Table of Contents. Our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting.. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While management continues to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we cannot assure you that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. For instance, recognizing the significant increase in our investments of cash as a result of our recent patent litigation settlements, we have instituted controls to monitor compliance with the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the \"1940 Act\"). If we fail to maintain compliance with the 1940 Act in the future such as by failing to continue to qualify for the research and development exemption under the 1940 Act, such noncompliance could have a significant adverse impact on our business. Deficiencies, particularly a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, which may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in our stock price, the delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Global Market, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operation, financial condition or liquidity.. We advertise, market, and sell our services directly to consumers; many of these activities are highly regulated by constantly evolving state and federal laws and regulations and violations of these laws and regulations could harm our business.. We engage in various advertising, marketing, and other promotional activities, such as offering gift subscriptions to consumers, which are subject to state and federal laws and regulations. A constantly evolving network of state and federal laws is increasingly regulating these promotional activities. Additionally, we enter into subscription service contracts directly with consumers which govern both our provision of and the consumers' payment for the TiVo service. For example, consumers who activate new monthly subscriptions to the TiVo service may be required to commit to pay for the TiVo service for a minimum of one year or be subject to an early termination fee if they terminate prior to the expiration of their commitment period. If the terms of our subscription service contracts with consumers, such as our imposition of an early termination fee, or our previously offered rebate or gift subscription programs were to violate state or federal laws or regulations, we could be subject to suit, penalties, and/or negative publicity in which case our business would be harmed.. We and the third-party vendors we work with will need to remain compliant with the Payment Card Industry requirements for security and protection of customer credit card information and an inability to do so by us or our third-party vendors will adversely affect our business.. As a merchant who processes credit card payments from its customers, we are required to comply with the payment card industry requirements imposed on us for the protection and security of our customers' credit card information. If we are unable to successfully remain compliant with the payment card industry requirements imposed on us as a credit card merchant, our business would be harmed because we could be prevented in the future from transacting customer subscription payments by means of a credit card.. We need to safeguard the security and privacy of our subscribers' confidential data and remain in compliance with laws that govern such data, and any inability to do so may harm our reputation and brand and expose us to legal action.. Uncertainty in the marketplace regarding the use of data from our subscribers could reduce demand for the TiVo service and result in increased expenses. Consumers may be concerned about the use of viewing information gathered by the TiVo service and the DVR. Currently, we gather anonymous information about our customers' viewing choices while using the TiVo service, unless a customer affirmatively consents to the collection of personally identifiable viewing information. This anonymous viewing information does not identify the individual customer. Privacy concerns, however, could create uncertainty in the marketplace for digital video recording and for our products and services. Changes in our privacy policy could reduce demand for the TiVo service, increase the cost of doing business as a result of privacy related litigation costs or increased service delivery costs, or otherwise harm our reputation and business.. The DVR collects and stores viewer preferences and other data that many of our customers consider confidential. If our technological security measures are compromised, our customers may curtail or stop use of our products and services. The TiVo service and TiVo products such as DVRs may contain the private information of our customers, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, which could result in potential liability and litigation. Like all services that connect with the Internet, our service, including our website, is vulnerable to break-ins, attacks, attempts to overload our servers with denial-of-service or other attacks and similar disruptions from unauthorized use of our computer systems, any of which could lead to. 33. Table of Contents. interruptions, delays, or shutdowns of our service, causing loss of critical data or the unauthorized disclosure or use of personally identifiable or other confidential information. If we experience compromises to our security that result in service and website performance or availability problems, the complete shutdown of our service or website, or the loss or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, our customers may lose trust and confidence in us, and decrease or discontinue their use of our service. Further, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our information or our customers' information. It is also possible that one of our employees who has access to our information or our customer's information as part of his or her employment or who could attempt to gain unauthorized access to our information or our customer's information and use it in violation of our internal policies and procedures. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to proactively address these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures from either external or internal threats. We may be required to make significant expenditures to protect against security breaches or to remedy problems caused by any breaches. Additionally, the laws governing such data are constantly changing and evolving and we must comply with these laws or our business, including our reputation, brand and financial results will be harmed. Failure to protect our information and our customer's information from external or internal threats could negatively impact our ability to attract new customers, cause existing customers to cancel their subscriptions, cause commercial partners to cease doing business with us, subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other actions or liabilities, thereby harming our business and operating results.. Legislation, laws or regulations relating to environmental issues, employment matters, and unclaimed property may adversely impact our business in the future.. It is possible that future proposed environmental regulations on consumer electronic devices, such as DVRs and set-top boxes, may regulate and increase the production, manufacture, use, and disposal costs incurred by us and our customers. For example, the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 directs the Department of Energy to prescribe labeling or other disclosure requirements for the energy use of standalone digital video recorder boxes. This and future energy regulations could potentially make it more costly for us to design, manufacture, and sell our DVRs to our customers thus harming the growth of our business.. Additionally, as our business grows and we expand our employed and contracted work force, employment laws and regulations will have an increasing impact on our ability to manage and grow our work-force. Regulations and laws relating to the status of contractors, classification and related benefits for exempt and non-exempt employees all may adversely impact our business if we are unable to properly manage and comply with federal, state, and local laws.. Furthermore, as part of our regular business activities now, and in the past, we engage in the issuance of gift subscriptions and the marketing of rebate offers related to the sale of our products and services. It is possible that money received by us for the sale of gift subscriptions or related to our past rebate offers could be subject to state and federal escheat, or unclaimed property, laws in the future. If this were the case, our business could be adversely impacted.. If we fail to comply with the laws and regulations relating to the collection of sales tax and payment of income taxes in the various states in which we do business, we could be exposed to unexpected costs, expenses, penalties, and fees as a result of our noncompliance in which case our business could be harmed.. As our business grows and expands, we have started to do business in an increasing number of states nationally. By engaging in business activities in these states, we become subject to their various laws and regulations, including requirements to collect sales tax from our sales within those states and the payment of income taxes on revenue generated from activities in those states. The laws and regulations governing the collection of sales tax and payment of income taxes are numerous, complex, and vary among states. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations requiring the collection of sales tax and payment of income taxes in one or more states where we do business, we could be subject to significant costs, expenses, penalties, and fees in which case our business would be harmed.. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and similar laws in other jurisdictions, and our failure to comply with such laws and regulations thereunder could result in penalties which could harm our reputation, business, and financial condition.. We are subject to the FCPA, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. The FCPA also requires companies to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately reflect the. 34. Table of Contents. transactions of the company. Under the FCPA, U.S. companies may be held liable for actions taken by their strategic or local partners or representatives. The FCPA and similar laws in other countries can impose civil and criminal penalties for violations.. If we do not properly implement practices and controls with respect to compliance with the FCPA and similar laws, or if we fail to enforce those practices and controls properly, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions, including administrative costs related to governmental and internal investigations, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions and restrictions on our business activities, all of which could harm our reputation, business and financial condition.. Our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and Delaware law could discourage a third-party from acquiring us and consequently decrease the market value of our common stock.. In the future, we could become the subject of an unsolicited attempted takeover of our Company. Although an unsolicited takeover could be in the best interests of our stockholders, certain provisions of Delaware law and our organizational documents could be impediments to such a takeover. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law. In general, the statute prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws also require that any action required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of the stockholders and may not be effected by a consent in writing. In addition, special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by a majority of the total number of authorized directors, the chairman of the board, our chief executive officer or the holders of 50% or more of our common stock. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws also provide that directors may be removed only for cause by a vote of a majority of the stockholders and that vacancies on the Board of Directors created either by resignation, death, disqualification, removal or by an increase in the size of the Board of Directors may be filled by a majority of the directors in office, although less than a quorum. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation also provides for a classified Board of Directors and specifies that the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of the Board of Directors. These provisions of Delaware law, our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws could make it more difficult for us to be acquired by another company, even if our acquisition is in the best interests of our stockholders. Any delay or prevention of a change of control or change in management could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. Seasonal trends may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate and our inability to forecast these trends may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Consumer electronic product sales have traditionally been much higher during the holiday shopping season than during other times of the year. Although predicting consumer demand for our products is very difficult, we have experienced that sales of DVRs and new subscriptions to the TiVo service have been higher during the holiday shopping season when compared to other times of the year. If we are unable to accurately forecast and respond to consumer demand for our products, our reputation and brand will suffer and the market price of our common stock would likely fall.. We expect that a portion of our future revenues will come from targeted commercials and other forms of interactive television advertising enabled by the TiVo service. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be seasonal and cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions as well as budgeting and buying patterns. A decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers' spending priorities or increase the time it takes to close a sale with our advertisers, which could cause our revenues from advertisements to decline significantly in any given period.. The large number of shares available for future sale could adversely affect the market price for our stock.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales might occur could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Several of our stockholders own a substantial number of our shares.. As of January 31, 2016, options to purchase a total of 4,546,811 shares and 5,167,216 unvested restricted stock awards and restricted stock units were outstanding under our option and equity incentive plans, and there were 6,332,232 shares available for future grants. We have filed registration statements with respect to the shares of common stock issuable under our option and equity incentive plans. In addition, there were potentially. 35. Table of Contents. 14,267,047 shares to be issued upon conversion of our outstanding convertible senior notes maturing in 2016 (\"4.0% Notes due 2016\"). There were potentially 12,904,679 shares to be issued upon conversion of our outstanding convertible senior notes maturing in 2021 (\"2.0% Notes due 2021\"). There were potentially 12,904,679 shares to be issued upon conversion of common stock warrants which were issued in conjunction with the 2.0% Notes due 2021.. Future sales of the shares of the common stock, or the registration for sale of such common stock, or the issuance of common stock to satisfy our current or future cash payment obligations, to fund litigation expenses, or to acquire technology, property, or other businesses, could cause immediate dilution and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The sale or issuance of such stock, as well as the existence of outstanding options and shares of common stock reserved for issuance under our option and equity incentive plans, also may adversely affect the terms upon which we are able to obtain additional capital through the sale of equity securities.. Increased leverage as a result of our convertible senior notes offering may harm our financial condition and results of operations.. In September 2014, we issued convertible senior notes with the aggregate principal amount of $230.0 million. Face value of our total convertible debt as of January 31, 2016 was approximately $362.5 million. The indentures governing the convertible senior notes do not restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness.. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to you, because:. •it could affect our ability to satisfy our obligations under the notes;. •a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes;. •it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future;. •it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and. •it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general.. Our operations may not generate sufficient cash to enable us to service our debt. If we fail to make a payment on the notes, we could be in default on the notes, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness. Conversely, a default on our other outstanding indebtedness may cause a default under the notes.. The hedge transactions and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the 2.0% Notes due 2021 may affect the value of the 2.0% Notes due 2021 and our common stock.. In connection with the offering of the 2.0% Notes due 2021, we entered into privately-negotiated convertible note hedge transactions with certain counterparties (\"Options Counterparties\") to reduce the potential dilution with respect to our common stock upon conversion of the 2.0% Notes due 2021. The convertible note hedges cover, subject to anti-dilution adjustments substantially similar to those applicable to the 2.0% Notes due 2021, the number of shares of common stock underlying the 2.0% Notes due 2021. We also entered into separate, privately-negotiated warrant transactions with the certain counterparties whereby we sold to independent third parties warrants with the Option Counterparties relating to the same number of shares of our common stock, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments.. The effect, if any, of these activities, including the direction or magnitude, on the market price of our common stock will depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions, and cannot be ascertained at this time. Any of these activities could, however, adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the trading price of the 2.0% Notes due 2021.. In addition, the Option Counterparties are financial institutions, and we will be subject to the risk that one or more of the Option Counterparties might default under the convertible note hedges. Our exposure to the credit risk of the Option Counterparties will not be secured by any collateral. If any of the Option Counterparties becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at the time under the convertible note hedges with such option counterparty. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in the market price and in the volatility of our common stock.. Our business could be adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster.. 36. Table of Contents. Our corporate headquarters is located in San Jose, California which is where the overwhelming majority of our employees work. Our primary servers are located nearby in San Jose, California. San Jose lies near the San Andreas Fault, among other known and unknown faults, a major source of earthquake activity in California. In the event of an earthquake or similar natural disaster, our ability to continue operations could be adversely affected in which case our business would be harmed."
