[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. We are subject to demand fluctuations in the housing industry. Any reduction in demand would adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Demand for our homes is subject to fluctuations, often due to factors outside of our control. In a housing market downturn, our sales and results of operations will be adversely affected; we may have significant inventory impairments and other write-offs; our gross margins may decline significantly from historical levels; and we may incur substantial losses from operations. We cannot predict the continuation of the current housing recovery, nor can we provide assurance that should the recovery not continue, our response will be successful.. Adverse changes in economic conditions in markets where we conduct our operations and where prospective purchasers of our homes live could reduce the demand for homes and, as a result, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Adverse changes in economic conditions in markets where we conduct our operations and where prospective purchasers of our homes live have had and may in the future have a negative impact on our business. Adverse changes in employment levels, job growth, consumer confidence, interest rates, and population growth, or an oversupply of homes for sale may reduce demand and depress prices for our homes and cause home buyers to cancel their agreements to purchase our homes. This, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. 12. A significant portion of our revenues and income from operations are generated from California in our Traditional Home Building segment.. A significant portion of our Traditional Home Building revenues and income from operations are concentrated in California. Factors beyond our control could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and/or income from operations generated in California. These factors include, but are not limited to: changes in the regulatory and fiscal environment; prolonged economic downturns; high levels of foreclosures; lack of affordability; a decline in foreign buyer demand; severe weather including drought and the risk of local governments imposing building moratoriums; natural disasters such as earthquakes and fires; environmental incidents; and declining population and/or growth rates and the related reduction in housing demand in these regions. If home sale activity or selling prices decline in California, our costs may not decline at all or at the same rate and, as a result, our consolidated financial results may be adversely affected.. In the construction of a high-rise building, whether a for-sale or a for-rent property, we incur significant costs before we can begin construction, sell and deliver the units to our customers, or commence the collection of rent and recover our costs. We may be subject to delays in construction that could lead to higher costs which could adversely affect our operating results. Changing market conditions during the construction period could negatively impact selling prices and rents, which could adversely affect our operating results.. Before a high-rise building generates any revenues, we make significant expenditures to acquire land; to obtain permits, development approvals, and entitlements; and to construct the building. It generally takes several years for us to acquire the land and construct, market, and deliver units or lease units in a high-rise building. Completion times vary on a building-by-building basis depending on the complexity of the project, its stage of development when acquired, and the regulatory and community issues involved. As a result of these potential delays in the completion of a building, we face the risk that demand for housing may decline during the period and we may be forced to sell or lease units at a loss or for prices that generate lower profit margins than we initially anticipated. Furthermore, if construction is delayed, we may face increased costs as a result of inflation or other causes and/or asset carrying costs (including interest on funds used to acquire land and construct the building). These costs can be significant and can adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if values of the building or units decline, we may also be required to recognize material write-downs of the book value of the building in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.. Increases in cancellations of existing agreements of sale could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our backlog reflects agreements of sale with our home buyers for homes that have not yet been delivered. We have received a deposit from our home buyer for each home reflected in our backlog, and generally we have the right to retain the deposit if the home buyer does not complete the purchase. In some cases, however, a home buyer may cancel the agreement of sale and receive a complete or partial refund of the deposit for reasons such as state and local law, the home buyer's inability to obtain mortgage financing, his or her inability to sell his or her current home, or our inability to complete and deliver the home within the specified time. At October 31, 2017, we had 5,851 homes with a sales value of $5.06 billion in backlog. If economic conditions decline, if mortgage financing becomes less available, or if our homes become less attractive due to conditions at or in the vicinity of our communities, we could experience an increase in home buyers canceling their agreements of sale with us, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. The home building industry is highly competitive, and, if other home builders are more successful or offer better value to our customers, our business could decline.. We operate in a very competitive environment, in which we face competition from a number of other home builders in each market in which we operate. We compete with large national and regional home building companies and with smaller local home builders for land, financing, raw materials, and skilled management and labor resources. We also compete with the resale home market, also referred to as the \"previously owned or existing\" home market. An oversupply of homes available for sale or the heavy discounting of home prices by some of our competitors could adversely affect demand for our homes and the results of our operations. An increase in competitive conditions can have any of the following impacts on us: delivery of fewer homes; sale of fewer homes or higher cancellations by our home buyers; an increase in selling incentives and/or reduction of prices; and realization of lower gross margins due to lower selling prices or an inability to increase selling prices to offset increased costs of the homes delivered. If we are unable to compete effectively in our markets, our business could decline disproportionately to that of our competitors.. If we are not able to obtain suitable financing, or if the interest rates on our debt are increased, or if our credit ratings are lowered, our business and results of operations may decline.. Our business and results of operations depend substantially on our ability to obtain financing, whether from bank borrowings or from financing in the public debt markets. Our revolving credit facility matures in May 2021, our $500.0 million term loan. 13. matures in August 2021, and $2.47 billion of our senior notes become due and payable at various times from December 2018 through March 2027. We cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to replace existing financing or find additional sources of financing in the future on favorable terms or at all.. If we are not able to obtain suitable financing at reasonable terms or replace existing debt and credit facilities when they become due or expire, our costs for borrowings will likely increase and our revenues may decrease or we could be precluded from continuing our operations at current levels.. Increases in interest rates can make it more difficult and/or expensive for us to obtain the funds we need to operate our business. The amount of interest we incur on our revolving bank credit facility and term loan fluctuates based on changes in short-term interest rates and the amount of borrowings we incur. Increases in interest rates generally and/or any downgrade in the ratings that national rating agencies assign to our outstanding debt securities could increase the interest rates we must pay on any subsequent issuances of debt securities, and any such ratings downgrade could also make it more difficult for us to sell such debt securities.. If we cannot obtain letters of credit and surety bonds, our ability to operate may be restricted.. We use letters of credit and surety bonds to secure our performance under various construction and land development agreements, escrow agreements, financial guarantees, and other arrangements. Should banks decline to issue letters of credit or surety companies decline to issue surety bonds, our ability to operate could be significantly restricted and could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. If home buyers are not able to obtain suitable financing, our results of operations may decline.. Our results of operations also depend on the ability of our potential home buyers to obtain mortgages for the purchase of our homes. Any uncertainty in the mortgage markets and its impact on the overall mortgage market, including the tightening of credit standards, future increases in the effective cost of home mortgage financing (including as a result of changes to federal tax law), and increased government regulation, could adversely affect the ability of our customers to obtain financing for a home purchase, thus preventing our potential home buyers from purchasing our homes. In addition, where our potential home buyers must sell their existing homes in order to buy a home from us, increases in mortgage costs and/or lack of availability of mortgages could prevent the buyers of our potential home buyers' existing homes from obtaining the mortgages they need to complete their purchases, which would result in our potential home buyers' inability to buy a home from us. Similar risks apply to those buyers whose contracts are in our backlog of homes to be delivered. If our home buyers, potential buyers, or buyers of our home buyers' current homes cannot obtain suitable financing, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected.. If our ability to resell mortgages to investors is impaired, our home buyers may be required to find alternative financing.. Generally, when our mortgage subsidiary closes a mortgage for a home buyer at a previously locked-in rate, it already has an agreement in place with an investor to acquire the mortgage following the closing. Should the resale market for our mortgages decline or the underwriting standards of our investors become more stringent, our ability to sell future mortgages could be adversely affected and either we would have to commit our own funds to long-term investments in mortgage loans, which could, among other things, delay the time when we recognize revenues from home sales on our statements of operations, or our home buyers would be required to find an alternative source of financing. If our home buyers cannot obtain another source of financing in order to purchase our homes, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected.. If land is not available at reasonable prices, our sales and results of operations could decrease.. In the long term, our operations depend on our ability to obtain land at reasonable prices for the development of our residential communities. At October 31, 2017, we had approximately 48,300 home sites that we owned or controlled through options. In the future, changes in the general availability of land, competition for available land, availability of financing to acquire land, zoning regulations that limit housing density, and other market conditions may hurt our ability to obtain land for new residential communities at prices that will allow us to make a reasonable profit. If the supply of land appropriate for development of our residential communities becomes more limited because of these factors or for any other reason, the cost of land could increase and/or the number of homes that we are able to sell and build could be reduced.. If the market value of our land and homes declines, our results of operations will likely decrease.. The market value of our land and housing inventories depends on market conditions. We acquire land for expansion into new markets and for replacement of land inventory and expansion within our current markets. If housing demand decreases below what we anticipated when we acquired our inventory, we may not be able to make profits similar to what we have made in the past, may experience less than anticipated profits, and/or may not be able to recover our costs when we sell and build homes.. 14. Due to the significant decline in our business during the 2006 - 2011 downturn in the housing industry, we recognized significant write-downs of our inventory.. We rely on subcontractors to construct our homes and on building supply companies to supply components for the construction of our homes. The failure of our subcontractors to properly construct our homes or defects in the components we obtain from building supply companies could have an adverse effect on us.. We engage subcontractors to perform the actual construction of our homes and purchase components used in the construction of our homes from building supply companies. Despite our quality control efforts, we may discover that our subcontractors were engaging in improper construction practices or that the components purchased from building supply companies are not performing as specified. The occurrence of such events could require us to repair the homes in accordance with our standards and as required by law. The cost of satisfying our legal obligations in these instances may be significant, and we may be unable to recover the cost of repair from subcontractors, suppliers and insurers. For example, we have incurred or expect to incur significant costs to repair homes built in Pennsylvania and Delaware. See Note 7  -  \"Accrued Expenses\" in Item 15(a)1 of this Form 10-K for additional information regarding warranty charges.. We participate in certain joint ventures where we may be adversely impacted by the failure of the joint venture or its participants to fulfill their obligations.. We have investments in and commitments to certain joint ventures with unrelated parties. These joint ventures may borrow money to help finance their activities. In certain circumstances, the joint venture participants, including ourselves, are required to provide guarantees of certain obligations relating to the joint ventures. In most of these joint ventures, we do not have a controlling interest and, as a result, are not able to require these joint ventures or their participants to honor their obligations or renegotiate them on acceptable terms. If the joint ventures or their participants do not honor their obligations, we may be required to expend additional resources or suffer losses, which could be significant.. Government regulations and legal challenges may delay the start or completion of our communities, increase our expenses, or limit our home building activities, which could have a negative impact on our operations.. We must obtain the approval of numerous governmental authorities in connection with our development activities, and these governmental authorities often have broad discretion in exercising their approval authority. We incur substantial costs related to compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. Any increase in legal and regulatory requirements may cause us to incur substantial additional costs or, in some cases, cause us to determine that the property is not feasible for development.. Various local, state, and federal statutes, ordinances, rules, and regulations concerning building, zoning, sales, and similar matters apply to and/or affect the housing industry. Governmental regulation affects construction activities as well as sales activities, mortgage lending activities, and other dealings with home buyers. The industry also has experienced an increase in state and local legislation and regulations that limit the availability or use of land. Municipalities may also restrict or place moratoriums on the availability of utilities, such as water and sewer taps. In some areas, municipalities may enact growth control initiatives, which will restrict the number of building permits available in a given year. In addition, we may be required to apply for additional approvals or modify our existing approvals because of changes in local circumstances or applicable law. If municipalities in which we operate take actions like these, it could have an adverse effect on our business by causing delays, increasing our costs, or limiting our ability to operate in those municipalities. Further, we may experience delays and increased expenses as a result of legal challenges to our proposed communities, whether brought by governmental authorities or private parties.. Our mortgage subsidiary is subject to various state and federal statutes, rules, and regulations, including those that relate to licensing, lending operations, and other areas of mortgage origination and financing. The impact of those statutes, rules, and regulations can increase our home buyers' cost of financing, increase our cost of doing business, and restrict our home buyers' access to some types of loans.. Increases in taxes or government fees could increase our costs, and adverse changes in tax laws could reduce demand for our homes.. Increases in real estate taxes and other local government fees, such as fees imposed on developers to fund schools, open space, and road improvements, and/or provide low- and moderate-income housing, could increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our operations. In addition, increases in local real estate taxes could adversely affect our potential home buyers, who may consider those costs in determining whether to make a new home purchase and decide, as a result, not to purchase one of our homes. In addition, any changes in the income tax laws that would reduce or eliminate tax deductions or incentives to homeowners, such as a change limiting the deductibility of real estate taxes or interest on home mortgages, could make housing less affordable or otherwise reduce the demand for housing, which in turn could reduce our sales and hurt our results of operations. In December 2017, Congress passed a federal tax reform bill. If signed into law by the President, this bill would (i). 15. limit the federal deduction for mortgage interest so that it only applies to the first $750,000 of a new mortgage (as compared to $1 million under previous tax law) and (ii) introduce a $10,000 cap on the federal deduction for state and local taxes. These tax changes, if enacted, may raise the overall cost of home ownership in certain of our communities, and may have the effect of reducing demand for those homes.. Adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, and other conditions could disrupt the development of our communities, which could harm our sales and results of operations.. Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, floods, droughts, and fires, can have serious effects on our ability to develop our residential communities. We also may be affected by unforeseen engineering, environmental, or geological conditions or problems, including conditions or problems which arise on lands of third parties in the vicinity of our communities, but nevertheless negatively impact our communities. Any of these adverse events or circumstances could cause delays in or prevent the completion of, or increase the cost of, developing one or more of our residential communities and, as a result, could harm our sales and results of operations.. If we experience shortages or increased costs of labor and supplies or other circumstances beyond our control, there could be delays or increased costs in developing our communities, which could adversely affect our operating results.. Our ability to develop residential communities may be adversely affected by circumstances beyond our control, including work stoppages, labor disputes, and shortages of qualified trades people, such as carpenters, roofers, masons, electricians, and plumbers; changes in laws relating to union organizing activity; lack of availability of adequate utility infrastructure and services; our need to rely on local subcontractors who may not be adequately capitalized or insured; and shortages, delays in availability, or fluctuations in prices of building materials. Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays in the start or completion of, or could increase the cost of, developing one or more of our residential communities. We may not be able to recover these increased costs by raising our home prices because the price for each home is typically set months prior to its delivery pursuant to the agreement of sale with the home buyer. If that happens, our operating results could be harmed.. We are subject to one collective bargaining agreement that covers less than 2% of our employees. We have not experienced any work stoppages due to strikes by unionized workers, but we cannot make assurances that there will not be any work stoppages due to strikes or other job actions in the future. We use independent contractors, many of whom are nonunionized, to construct our homes. At any given point in time, those subcontractors, who are not yet represented by a union, may be unionized.. Product liability claims and litigation and warranty claims that arise in the ordinary course of business may be costly, which could adversely affect our business.. As a home builder, we are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common in the home building industry and can be costly. In addition, the costs of insuring against construction defect and product liability claims are high, and the amount of coverage offered by insurance companies is currently limited. There can be no assurance that this coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. If the limits or coverages of our current and former insurance programs prove inadequate, or we are not able to obtain adequate, or reasonably priced, insurance against these types of claims in the future, or the amounts currently provided for future warranty or insurance claims are inadequate, we may experience losses that could negatively impact our financial results.. We record expenses and liabilities based on the estimated costs required to cover our self-insured liability under our insurance policies and estimated costs of potential claims and claim adjustment expenses that are above our coverage limits or that are not covered by our insurance policies. These estimated costs are based on an analysis of our historical claims and industry data, and include an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. The projection of losses related to these liabilities requires actuarial assumptions that are subject to variability due to uncertainties regarding construction defect claims relative to our markets and the types of product we build, insurance industry practices, and legal or regulatory actions and/or interpretations, among other factors. Key assumptions used in these estimates include claim frequencies, severities, and settlement patterns, which can occur over an extended period of time. In addition, changes in the frequency and severity of reported claims and the estimates to settle claims can impact the trends and assumptions used in the actuarial analysis, which could be material to our consolidated financial statements. Due to the degree of judgment required and the potential for variability in these underlying assumptions, our actual future costs could differ from those estimated, and the difference could be material to our consolidated financial statements.. Over the past several years, we have had a significant number of water intrusion claims related to homes we built in Pennsylvania and Delaware. See Note 7  -  \"Accrued Expenses\" in Item 15(a)1 of this Form 10-K for additional information regarding these warranty charges.. 16. Our cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected if legal claims are brought against us and are not resolved in our favor.. Claims have been brought against us in various legal proceedings that have not had, and are not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Should such claims be resolved in an unfavorable manner or should additional claims be filed in the future, it is possible that our cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We could be adversely impacted by the loss of key management personnel or if we fail to attract qualified personnel.. Our future success depends, to a significant degree, on the efforts of our senior management and our ability to attract qualified personnel. Our operations could be adversely affected if key members of our senior management leave our employ or we cannot attract qualified personnel to manage the expected growth in our business.. Changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws may negatively affect our operating results.. We believe that our recorded tax balances are adequate; however, it is not possible to predict the effects of possible changes in the tax laws or changes in their interpretation and whether they could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. We have filed our tax returns in prior years based upon certain filing positions we believe are appropriate. If the Internal Revenue Service or state taxing authorities disagree with these filing positions, we may owe additional taxes. In December 2017, Congress passed a federal tax reform bill. If signed into law by the President, this bill includes changes that we believe will significantly decrease our effective tax rate. For more information regarding tax reform, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Overview  - Tax Reform\" in Item 7 of this Form 10-K.. Our high-rise business is subject to swings in delivery volume due to the extended construction time, levels of pre-sales, and quick delivery of units once the building is complete.. Our quarterly operating results will fluctuate depending on the timing of completion of construction of our high-rise building, levels of pre-sales and the relatively short delivery time of the pre-sold units once the building is completed. Depending on the number of high-rise buildings that are completed in a quarter, our quarterly operating results may be uneven and may be marked by lower revenues and earnings in some quarters than in others.. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate due to the seasonal nature of our business.. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate with the seasons; normally, a significant portion of our agreements of sale are entered into with customers in the winter and spring months. Construction of one of our traditional homes typically proceeds after signing the agreement of sale with our customer and can require seven months or more to complete. Weather-related problems may occur from time to time, delaying starts or closings or increasing costs and reducing profitability. In addition, delays in opening new communities or new sections of existing communities could have an adverse impact on home sales and revenues. Expenses are not incurred and recognized evenly throughout the year.. Because of these factors, our quarterly operating results may be uneven and may be marked by lower revenues and earnings in some quarters than in others.. Future terrorist attacks against the United States or increased domestic or international instability could have an adverse effect on our operations.. Future terrorist attacks against the United States or any foreign country or increased domestic or international instability could significantly reduce the number of new contracts signed, increase the number of cancellations of existing contracts, and/or increase our operating expenses, which could adversely affect our business.. Information technology failures and data security breaches could harm our business.. As part of our normal business activities, we use information technology and other computer resources to carry out important operational activities and to maintain our business records. Our computer systems, including our backup systems, are subject to interruption or damage from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches (including through cyber-attack and data theft), usage errors, and catastrophic events, such as fires, floods, tornadoes, and hurricanes. If our computer systems and our backup systems are compromised, degraded, damaged, or breached, or otherwise cease to function properly, we could suffer interruptions in our operations or unintentionally allow misappropriation of proprietary or confidential information (including information about our home buyers and business partners), which could damage our reputation and require us to incur significant costs to remediate or otherwise resolve these issues.. 17. Our acquisition of Shapell Industries, Inc. may expose us to unknown liabilities.. As part of the acquisition of Shapell Industries, Inc. (\"Shapell\") in February 2014, we acquired all the outstanding equity interests of Shapell and, as a result, we will generally be subject to all of its liabilities, other than certain excluded liabilities as set forth in the purchase agreement. If previously unknown liabilities or other obligations of Shapell emerge in the future including contingent liabilities, our business could be materially affected. We may learn additional information about Shapell that adversely affects us, such as unknown liabilities, including liabilities under environmental laws, issues that could affect our ability to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or issues that could affect our ability to comply with other applicable laws."
