[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our Company's success is dependent on management's ability to identify and manage the risks inherent in our financial services business.  These risks include credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, model risk, compliance and legal risk, and strategic and reputation risk.  We list below the material risk factors we face.  Any of these risks could result in a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, liquidity, and cash flow, or may cause our results to vary materially from recent results, or from the results implied by any forward-looking statements made by us.. Risks Related to the Company's Business. The Company is subject to increased business risk because the Company has a significant concentration of commercial real estate and commercial business loans, repayment of which is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower.. The Company offers different types of commercial loans to a variety of businesses. Real estate lending is generally considered to be collateral based lending with loan amounts based on predetermined loan to collateral values. As such, declines in real estate valuations in the Company's market area would lower the value of the collateral securing these loans. The Company's commercial business loans are made based primarily on the cash flow and creditworthiness of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower, with liquidation of the underlying real estate collateral being viewed as the primary source of repayment in the event of borrower default. The borrowers' cash flow may be difficult to predict, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value.  Although commercial business loans are often collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable, or other business assets, the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment. As of December 31, 2017, commercial and commercial real estate loans totaled $3.3 billion or 70.5% of total loans.. 13. Table of Contents. The Company's agricultural loans are often dependent upon the health of the agricultural industry in the location of the borrower, and the ability of the borrower to repay may be affected by many factors outside of the borrower's control.. As part of the Company's commercial business lending activities, the Company originates agricultural loans, consisting of agricultural real estate loans and agricultural operating loans. As of December 31, 2017, $238.6 million or 5.1% of the Company's total loan portfolio consisted of agriculturally-related loans, including $130.0 million in agricultural real estate loans and $108.6 million in agricultural operating loans. Payments on agricultural loans are dependent on the profitable operation or management of the related farm property. The success of the farm may be affected by many factors outside the control of the borrower, including adverse weather conditions that prevent the planting of a crop or limit crop yields (such as hail, drought and floods), loss of livestock due to disease or other factors, declines in market prices for agricultural products and the impact of governmental regulations and subsidies (including changes in price supports and environmental regulations). Many farms are dependent upon a limited number of key individuals whose injury or death may significantly affect the successful operation of the farm. If the cash flow from a farming operation is diminished, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. While agricultural operating loans are generally secured by a blanket lien on the farm's operating assets, any repossessed collateral in respect of a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding balance.. Declines in asset values may result in impairment charges and may adversely affect the value of the Company's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. A majority of the Company's investment portfolio is comprised of securities which are collateralized by residential mortgages. These residential mortgage-backed securities include securities of U.S. government agencies, U.S. government-sponsored entities, and private-label collateralized mortgage obligations. The Company's securities portfolio also includes obligations of U.S. government-sponsored entities, obligations of states and political subdivisions thereof, U.S. corporate debt securities and equity securities. A more detailed discussion of the investment portfolio, including types of securities held, the carrying and fair values, and contractual maturities is provided in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Report. The fair value of investments may be affected by factors other than the underlying performance of the issuer or composition of the obligations themselves, such as rating downgrades, adverse changes in the business climate and a lack of liquidity for resale of certain investment securities. The Company periodically, but not less than quarterly, evaluates investments and other assets for impairment indicators in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  A decline in the fair value of the securities in our investment portfolio could result in an other-than temporary impairment (\"OTTI\") write-down that would reduce our earnings.  Further, given the significant judgments involved, if we are incorrect in our assessment of OTTI, this error could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation, financial condition, and cash flows.. A decline in the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had $101.6 million of goodwill and other intangible assets. The Company is required to test its goodwill and intangible assets for impairment on a periodic basis. A significant decline in the Company's expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in business climate, slower growth rates or a significant and sustained decline in the price of the Company's common stock, may necessitate our taking charges in the future related to the impairment of the Company's goodwill and intangible assets. If we make an impairment determination in a future reporting period, the Company's earnings and the book value of these intangible assets would be reduced by the amount of the impairment.  Further, a goodwill impairment charge could significantly restrict the ability of our banking subsidiaries to make dividend payments to us without prior regulatory approval, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The Company may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of counterparty relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry. The most important counterparty for the Company, in terms of liquidity, is the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (\"FHLBNY\"). The Company also has a relationship with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh (\"FHLBPITT\"). The Company uses FHLBNY as its primary source of overnight funds and also has long-term advances and repurchase agreements with FHLBNY. The Company has placed sufficient collateral in the form of commercial and residential real estate loans at FHLBNY. In addition, the Company is required to hold stock in FHLBNY and FHLBPITT. The amount of borrowed funds and repurchase agreements with the FHLBNY and FHLBPITT, and the amount of FHLBNY and FHLBPITT stock held by the Company, at its most recent fiscal year-end are discussed in Part II, Item 8 of this Report on Form 10-K.. 14. Table of Contents. There are 11 branches of the FHLB, including New York and Pittsburgh. The FHLBNY and the FHLBPITT are jointly and severally liable along with the other Federal Home Loan Banks for the consolidated obligations issued on behalf of the Federal Home Loan Banks through the Office of Finance. Dividends on, redemption of, or repurchase of shares of the FHLBNY's or FHLBPITT's capital stock cannot occur unless the principal and interest due on all consolidated obligations have been paid in full. If another Federal Home Loan Bank were to default on its obligation to pay principal or interest on any consolidated obligations, the Federal Home Loan Finance Agency (the \"Finance Agency\") may allocate the outstanding liability among one or more of the remaining Federal Home Loan Banks on a pro rata basis or on any other basis the Finance Agency may determine. As a result, the FHLBNY's or FHLBPITT's ability to pay dividends on, to redeem, or to repurchase shares of capital stock could be affected by the financial condition of one or more of the other Federal Home Loan Banks.  Any such adverse effects on the FHLBNY or FHLBPITT could adversely affect our liquidity, the value of our investment in FHLBNY or FHLBPITT common stock, and could negatively impact our results of operations.. Systemic weakness in the FHLB could result in higher costs of FHLB borrowings, reduced value of FHLB stock, and increased demand for alternative sources of liquidity that are more expensive, such as brokered time deposits, the discount window at the Federal Reserve, or lines of credit with correspondent banks.  Any of these scenarios could adversely affect our liquidity, the value of our investment in FHLB common stock and our financial condition.. The Company relies on cash dividends from its subsidiaries to fund its operations, and payment of those dividends could be discontinued at any time.. The Company is a financial holding company whose principal assets and sources of income are its wholly-owned subsidiaries. The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries, and therefore the Company relies primarily on dividends from these banking and other subsidiaries to meet its obligations and to provide funds for the payment of dividends to the Company's shareholders, to the extent declared by the Company's board of directors. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that a bank may pay to its parent company and impose regulatory capital and liquidity requirements on the Company and its banking subsidiaries. Further, as a holding company, the Company's right to participate in a distribution of assets upon the liquidation or reorganization of a subsidiary is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors (including, in the case of the Company's banking subsidiaries, the banks' depositors). If the Company were unable to receive dividends from its subsidiaries it would materially and adversely affects the Company's liquidity and its ability to service its debt, pay its other obligations, or pay cash dividends on its common stock.. The Company's business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and local and national economies.. General economic conditions impact the banking and financial services industry. The Company's financial performance generally, and in particular, the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay the principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing these loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Company operates. The Company serves numerous market areas within New York State and Pennsylvania, and the Company is dependent on the economic conditions of these two states. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions could lead to credit quality concerns related to repayment ability and collateral protection as well as reduced demand for the services offered by the Company's three business segments. In recent years there has been gradual improvement in the U.S. economy as evidenced by a rebound in the housing market, lower unemployment and higher equities markets; however economic growth has been uneven and opinions vary on the strength and direction of the economy.  A downturn in the economy or financial markets could adversely affect the credit quality of the Company's loan portfolio, results of operations and financial condition.. Economic downturns could affect the volume of income from and demand for fee-based services, including investment services and insurance commissions and fees. Revenues from the trust and wealth management businesses are dependent on the level of assets under management. Market volatility that leads customers to pull money out of the market or lower equity and bond prices can reduce the Company's assets under management and thereby decrease revenues.. 15. Table of Contents. Our business is concentrated in and largely dependent upon the continued growth and welfare of the general geographical markets in which we operate.. Our operations are heavily concentrated in the New York State and to a lesser extent Pennsylvania and, as a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are significantly impacted by changes in the economic conditions in those areas.  Our success depends to a significant extent upon the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in these markets. Although our clients' business and financial interests may extend well beyond these markets, adverse economic conditions that affect these markets could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our clients to repay their loans to us, affect the value of collateral underlying loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Because of our geographic concentration, we are less able than other regional or national financial institutions to diversify our credit risks across multiple markets.   For additional information on our market area, see Part I, Item 1, \"Business\" of this Report on Form 10-K.. Our insurance agency subsidiary's commission revenues are based on premiums set by insurers and any decreases in these premium rates could adversely affect our operations and revenues.. Our insurance agency subsidiary, Tompkins Insurance, derives the bulk of its revenue from commissions paid by insurance underwriters on the sale of insurance products to clients. Tompkins Insurance does not determine the insurance premiums on which its commissions are based. Insurance premiums are cyclical in nature and may vary widely based on market conditions. As a result, insurance brokerage revenues and profitability can be volatile. Revenue from insurance commissions and fees could be negatively affected by fluctuations in insurance premiums and other factors beyond the Company's control, including changes in laws and regulations impacting the healthcare and insurance markets. In addition, there have been and may continue to be various trends in the insurance industry toward alternative insurance markets including, among other things, increased use of self-insurance, captives, and risk retention groups. Even if Tompkins Insurance is able to participate in these activities, it is unlikely to realize revenues and profitability as favorable as those realized from our traditional brokerage activities.  We cannot predict the timing or extent of future changes in premiums and thus commissions. As a result, we cannot predict the effect that future premium rates will have on our operations.  Decreases in premium rates could adversely affect our operations and revenues.. The Company is subject to fluctuations in interest rates and other market risks, which could materially and adversely affect our earnings, financial condition, and liquidity.. The Company's earnings, financial condition and liquidity are susceptible to fluctuations in market interest rates.  Interest rates are affected by many factors which are outside of our control, including financial regulation, economic/monetary policy, and political conditions, and other factors.  Net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings, is our primary source of revenue, and could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates, potentially resulting in losses.  Changes in interest rates may have a different effect on the interest earned on our assets than it does on the interest paid on our borrowings or other liabilities.  This is because our assets and liabilities reprice at different times and by different amounts as interest rates change.  The level of net interest income is dependent upon the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, the level of nonperforming assets, and the level and trend of interest rates. Changes in market interest rates will also affect the level of prepayments on the Company's loans and payments on mortgage-backed securities, resulting in the receipt of proceeds that may be reinvested at a lower rate than the loan or mortgage-backed security being prepaid. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including: inflation, economic growth, employment levels, monetary policy and international markets. Significant fluctuations in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company's earnings, financial condition, and liquidity.  The Company's efforts to manage interest rate risk may not be sufficient to prevent these adverse outcomes.. For information about how the Company manages its interest rate risk, refer to Part II, Item 7A, \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk\" of this Report.. 16. Table of Contents. Our funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits and support our future growth.. We must maintain sufficient cash flow and liquid assets to satisfy current and future financial obligations, including demand for loans and deposit withdrawals, funding operating costs, and for other corporate purposes.   As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments.  As we continue to grow, we are likely to become more dependent on these sources, which may include various short-term and long-term wholesale borrowings, including Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase, brokered certificates of deposit, proceeds from the sale of loans, and borrowings from the FHLBNY and FHLBPITT and others.   We also maintain available lines of credit with the FHLBNY and FHLBPITT that are secured by loans.  Adverse operating results or changes in industry conditions could make it difficult or impossible for us to access these additional funding sources and could make our existing funds more volatile.  Our financial flexibility could be materially constrained if we are unable to maintain access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates.  If we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs.  In that case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected.  Further, the volatility inherent in some of these funding sources, particularly including brokered deposits, may increase our exposure to liquidity risk.  Any interruption in these sources of liquidity when needed could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flow or regulatory capital levels.  In addition, reduced liquidity could result from circumstances beyond our control, such as general market disruptions or operational problems that affect us or third parties.   Management's efforts to closely monitor our liquidity position for compliance with internal policies may not be successful or sufficient to deal with dramatic or unanticipated reductions in liquidity.. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely impacted by current or future laws and regulations due to increased compliance costs, potential fines for noncompliance, and restrictions on our ability to offer products or buy or sell businesses.. The Company is subject to extensive state and federal laws and regulations, supervision, and legislation that affect how it conducts its business. The majority of these laws and regulations are for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds. The regulations influence such things as the Company's lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, and dividend policy. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, represented a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry in the United States and required federal agencies to implement many new rules. This legislation established the CFPB, which has broad authority to regulate the consumer financial products and services we offer.  The Volcker Rule prohibits banking entities from sponsoring or investing in covered funds, and the Company is required to divest itself of $600,000 in covered funds by July 2022.  While most of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are now in effect, others are still subject to rules that have yet to be adopted or implemented. Reforms, both under the Dodd-Frank Act and otherwise, have had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on the entire financial services industry.  Compliance with these regulations and other initiatives negatively impacts revenue and increases the cost of doing business, both in terms of transition expenses and on an ongoing basis. Any new regulatory requirements or changes to existing requirements could require changes to the Company's businesses, result in increased compliance costs and affect the profitability of such businesses.  Refer to \"Supervision and Regulation\" in Part I, Item 1 - \"Business\" of this Report on Form 10 - K for additional information on material laws and regulations impacting the Company's business.. As discussed above under the \"Supervision and Regulation\" section, under Basel III and the Dodd-Frank Act the federal banking agencies established stricter risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits to apply to banks and bank holding companies. These requirements, and any additional requirements adopted in the future, could adversely affect the Company's ability to pay dividends, or could require it to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect its results of operations or financial condition.. Additionally, banking regulators are authorized to take supervisory actions that may restrict or limit a financial institution's activities.  The financial services supervisory environment has become significantly more demanding and restrictive since the financial crisis of 2008.  Regulatory restrictions on our activities could adversely affect our costs and revenues, and may impair our ability to execute our strategic plans.  In addition, if our regulators identify a compliance failure, we may be assessed a fine, prohibited from completing a strategic acquisition or divestiture, or subject to other actions imposed by the regulatory authorities.  The recent regulatory activity and increased scrutiny have resulted, and may continue to result, in increases in our costs of doing business, and could result in decreased revenues and net income, reduce our ability to effectively compete to attract and retain customers, or make it less attractive for us to continue providing certain products and services. Any future changes in federal or state law and regulations, as well as the interpretations and implementations, or modifications or repeals, of such laws and regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 17. Table of Contents. As an organization focused on building comprehensive relationships with clients, employees and the communities we serve, our reputation is critical to our business, and damage to it could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects.. Our success as a Company relies on maintaining the value of our brand and our good reputation with our current and potential customers and employees.  Through our branding, we communicate to the market about our Company and our product and service offerings.  Maintaining a positive reputation is critical to our attracting and retaining clients and employees.  Accordingly, reputational damage would likely have a materially adverse impact on our business prospects and our ability to execute on our business strategy.   Harm to our reputation can arise from many sources, including regulatory  actions or fines, improperly handled conflicts of interest, operating system failures or security breaches, customer complaints, litigation, actual or perceived employee misconduct, misconduct by our outsourced service providers or other counterparties, or other unethical behavior could all cause harm to our reputation, impair our ability to attract and retain customers, and make it more difficult or expensive to obtain external funding.   Negative publicity regarding us or any of our subsidiaries, whether or not accurate, may damage our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our assets, business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company may be exposed to regulatory sanctions or liability if we do not timely detect and report money laundering or other illegal activities.. We are required to comply with anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws.  These laws and regulations require us, among things, to enact policies and procedures to confirm the identity of our customers, and to report suspicious transactions to regulatory agencies.  These laws and regulations are complex and require costly, sophisticated monitoring systems and qualified personnel.  The policies and procedures that we have adopted in order to detect and prevent such illegal transactions may not be successful in eliminating all instances of such transactions.  To the extent we fail to fully comply with applicable laws and regulations, we face the possibility of fines or other penalties, such as restrictions on our business activities, and we may also suffer reputational harm, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Changes in U.S. federal, state and local tax law or interpretations of existing tax law could increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. The Company is subject to taxation at the federal, state and local levels in the United States.  On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\").  The changes included in the Tax Act are broad and complex.  The final transition impacts of the Tax Act may differ from the estimates provided elsewhere in this report, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the Tax Act, any legislative action to address questions that arise because of the Tax Act, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the Tax Act, or any updates or changes to estimates the Company has utilized to calculate the transition impacts, including impacts from changes to current year earnings estimates.  The estimated impact of the new law is based on management's current knowledge and assumptions and recognized impacts could be materially different from current estimates based on our actual results in fiscal 2018 and our further analysis of the new law.  Refer to \"Note 14 Income Taxes\" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. of this Report for additional information on the impact of the Tax Act.. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively  in a highly competitive industry and market areas.. Competition for commercial banking and other financial services is strong in the Company's market areas. In one or more aspects of its business, the Company's subsidiaries compete with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, Internet-based financial services companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking companies, and other financial intermediaries. Some of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending capabilities and may offer services that the Company does not currently provide. In addition, many of the Company's non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive Federal regulations that govern financial holding companies and Federally insured banks.   Failure to compete effectively to attract new and retain current customers could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 18. Table of Contents. Our success depends on our ability to offer our customers an evolving suite of products and services, and we may not be able to effectively manage the risks inherent in the development of financial products and services.. We continually monitor our suite of products and services, and prioritize new offerings based on our determination of customer demand, within regulatory parameters for financial products.  We may invest significant time and resources in new products which become obsolete, or do not generate the revenues we had anticipated, or which are ultimately deemed unacceptable by regulatory authorities.    As we expand the range and complexity of our products and services, we are exposed to increasingly complex risks, including potential fraud, and our employees and risk management systems may not be adequate to mitigate such risks effectively.  Our failure to effectively identify and manage these risks and uncertainties could have a materially adverse effect on our business.. We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers, and failures, interruptions or breaches of security in these systems could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In the ordinary course of business we rely on electronic communications and information systems to conduct our operations and to store, process, and/or transmit sensitive data.  Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in significant disruption to our operations.  Information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents may include attempts to access information, including customer and company information, malicious code, computer viruses and denial of service attacks that could result in unauthorized access, misuse, loss or destruction of data (including confidential customer or employee information), account takeovers, unavailability of service or other events.  These types of threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of external or internal parties, or may result from accidental technological failure.  Further, to access our products and services our customers may use computers and mobile devices that are beyond our security control systems.  Our technologies, systems, networks and software, and those of other financial institutions have been, and are likely to continue to be, the target of cybersecurity threats and attacks, which may range from uncoordinated individual attempts to sophisticated and targeted measures directed at us.  The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber-attack or cyber intrusion, has significantly increased, in part due to the expansion of new technologies, the increased use of the Internet and mobile services, and the increased intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world.. Further, because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to process new and renewal loans, gather deposits and provide customer service, compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business and subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our business requires the collection and retention of large volumes of sensitive data, which is subject to extensive regulation and oversight and exposes our business to additional risks.. In our ordinary course of business, we collect and retain large volumes of customer data, including personally identifiable information in various information systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide data services.  We also maintain important internal Company data such as personally identifiable information about our employees and information relating to our operations.  Our customers and employees have been, and will continue to be, targeted by parties using fraudulent e-mails and other communications in attempts to misappropriate passwords, bank account information or other personal information or to introduce viruses or other malware through \"Trojan horse\" programs to our information systems and/or our customers' computers.  Our attempts to mitigate these threats through product improvements, use of encryption and authentication technology and customer and employee education may not be successful. Cyber crimes are complex and continue to evolve.   Publicized information concerning security and cyber-related problems could discourage our customers from using our electronic or web-based applications or solutions, which could harm their utility as a means of conducting commercial transactions.. Our security efforts and measures may not be effective in preventing attempted security breaches or disruptions, which could be very damaging to our business. Even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. While we maintain specific \"cyber\" insurance coverage, which would apply in the event of many breach scenarios, the amount of coverage may not be adequate in any particular case. Furthermore, because cyber threat scenarios are inherently difficult to predict and can take many forms, some breaches may not be covered under our cyber. 19. Table of Contents. insurance coverage. A security breach or other significant disruption of our information systems or those related to our customers, merchants and our third party vendors, including as a result of cyber attacks, could (i) disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems and therefore our  operations and/or those of certain of our customers; (ii) result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our customers; (iii) result in a violation of applicable privacy, data breach and other laws, subjecting us to additional regulatory scrutiny and expose the us to civil litigation, governmental fines and possible financial liability; (iv) require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result; or (v) harm our reputation or cause a decrease in the number of customers that choose to do business with us. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company is subject to risks presented by acquisitions, which, if realized, could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.. The Company's strategic initiatives include diversification within its markets, growth of its fee-based businesses, and growth internally and through acquisitions of financial institutions, branches, and financial services businesses. As such, the Company has acquired, and from time to time considers acquiring, banks, thrift institutions, branch offices of banks or thrift institutions, or other businesses within markets currently served by the Company or in other locations that would complement the Company's business or its geographic reach. Future acquisitions will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions. These risks include: the difficulty of integrating operations and personnel, the potential disruption of our ongoing business, the inability of management to realize or maximize anticipated financial and strategic positions, increased operating costs, the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in ownership and management. Further, the asset quality or other financial characteristics of an acquired company may deteriorate after the acquisition agreement is signed or after the acquisition closes.  Any of these risks, if realized, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The Company's operations may be adversely affected if its external vendors do not perform as expected.. The Company relies on certain external vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain the day-to-day operations of the Company. Accordingly, the Company's operations are exposed to the risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements. The failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements, because of changes in the vendor's organizational structure, financial condition, support for existing products and services or strategic focus or for any other reason, could disrupt the Company's operations.   If we are unable to find alternative sources for our vendors' services and products quickly and cost-effectively, the failures of our vendors could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business and, in turn, the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. A failure to effectively utilize, maintain and improve our core information technology infrastructure and information management systems could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Our competitive position relies on our capacity to maintain and upgrade our information technology systems.  This requires significant capital expenditure, and we may not always have capital levels which are sufficient to support a robust investment in our technology infrastructure.  We recently converted our core operating system in 2017, and we expect to convert additional modules during 2018.  There is a risk that this conversion could materially and adversely disrupt our operations.  We will be relying on our new vendor, as well as our existing vendor, to help us migrate and integrate these modules into the new core system, and there is a risk that our vendors could fail to perform as we expect, or that the integration and data migration will not be completed in an accurate, timely or efficient manner.  Further, our employees could have difficulty performing their job duties on the new platform. The failure to accurately and effectively migrate our data and systems from our legacy core to our new core could adversely affect our customers, who may experience temporary delays or difficulties accessing or utilizing our products and services. The risks associated with core conversion could materially impair our ability to operate effectively following the conversion.. 20. Table of Contents. Risks Associated with the Company's Common Stock. The Company's stock price may be volatile.. The Company's stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, including: actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; recommendations by securities analysts; significant acquisitions or business combinations; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to Tompkins; new technology used, or services offered by our competitors; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; and changes in government regulations. Other factors, including general market fluctuations, industry-wide factors and economic and general political conditions and events, including terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends or currency fluctuations, may adversely affect the Company's stock price even though they do not directly pertain to the Company's operating results.. The trading volume in our common stock is less than that of larger financial services companies, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock.. The Company's common stock is traded on the NYSE American. The trading volume in the Company's common stock is less than that of larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of the Company's common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall.. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit.. The Company's common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Company's common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this \"Risk Factors\" section and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire the Company's common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment.. We may not pay, or may reduce, the dividends paid on our common stock.. Holders of Tompkins' common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as its board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. While Tompkins has a long history of paying dividends on its common stock, Tompkins is not required to pay dividends on its common stock and could reduce or eliminate its common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of Tompkins' common stock. Also, Tompkins is a bank holding company, and its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends. See \"Supervision and Regulation\" for a description of certain material limitations on the Company's ability to pay dividends to shareholders."
