[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our achievement of projected revenue and earnings targets in 2009 and beyond is dependent on our ability to successfully implement our strategic goals. Our ability to effectively execute our strategic plans could be adversely affected if our business assumptions do not prove to be accurate or if adverse conditions prevail in our business environment, such as: sustained declines in oil and natural gas prices; reduced capital spending by our customers; further reduction in rig activity; reduction in pricing or demand for our products and services; potential higher cost for products used by us in our operations; sustained declines in general global. 12. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. economic and business conditions; our inability to recover fixed costs; our ability to successfully integrate recent acquisitions; our inability to effectively implement EBS; our inability to generate technological advances and compete on the basis of our technology; and the potential for unexpected litigation or regulatory proceedings.. Our implementation of an Enterprise Business System during 2009 may encounter unforeseen difficulties and result in implementation costs being greater than planned. Planning, designing and implementing EBS is a significant long-term endeavor and is resource intensive. We are expecting to transition from a function-oriented organization to a process-oriented organization. The change to process-orientation can fundamentally affect key activities within our Company. Failure to execute smoothly the implementation of EBS could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. An extended decline in commodity prices would likely result in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry, thereby negatively affecting our revenue and results of operations. Our business is substantially dependent on the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development activities around the world. A substantial or extended decline in these expenditures may result in the discovery of fewer new reserves of oil and gas and/or the delay in development of known reserves, thereby adversely affecting the market for our production equipment and services. The level of these expenditures is generally dependent on the industry's view of future oil and gas prices. Crude oil and natural gas prices have declined significantly from their historic highs in July 2008 and such price declines can be expected to reduce drilling activity and demand for our products and services from the levels experienced during fiscal 2008. While we had a substantial backlog at the end of fiscal 2008, the current market conditions will likely result in a decline in demand for our products and services during 2009. Prolonged periods of historically lower development activity could have a materially adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our ability to access capital markets on acceptable terms could be limited. Our ability to execute our business strategies may be limited by our ability to secure and retain reasonably priced financing. During the latter part of 2008, global financial markets experienced a great deal of turmoil, which adversely impacted both equity and debt markets thereby potentially limiting our future access to capital. Further, there is a risk that one or more of the banks in our lending group may be unable to fulfill their commitments under our existing credit facilities. Additionally, we utilize certain amounts of letters of credit to provide guarantees and warranties to our customers and to secure our performance, bids or milestone payments on large projects. Outstanding letters of credit can consume a significant portion of our available liquidity under our revolving credit and export sales facilities. Some of our competitors are larger companies which may have better access to capital and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us should our access to capital be limited.. Future acquisitions, if any, may be difficult to finance and integrate and could adversely affect our operating results. We intend to consider and, if feasible, to make strategic acquisitions of other companies, assets and product lines that complement or expand our existing businesses. Acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including: the diversion of our management's attention to the assimilation of the operations and personnel of the acquired business; possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process; potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies; potential lack of experience operating in a geographic market of the acquired business; an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements; and the possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the business combination. Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated levels of cash flow from an acquired business or realize other anticipated benefits of an acquisition.. The dollar amount of our backlog is not necessarily indicative of our future cash flow and our ability to realize future cash flow may be impacted by current economic conditions. Backlog consists of documented orders from customers that have satisfactory credit or financing arrangements in place, for which authorization to begin work or purchase materials has been given and for which a delivery date has been indicated. We cannot guarantee the revenue projected in our backlog will be realized, or if realized, will result in profits.. 13. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Our customers may cancel or delay a project for reasons beyond our control. The majority of our contracts allow for a cancellation at the customer's convenience. In the event of a project cancellation, we are generally reimbursed for our costs, but typically have no contractual right to the total revenue expected from any such project as reflected in our backlog. In addition, projects may remain in our backlog for extended periods of time. The current credit and economic environment could significantly impact the financial condition of some customers over a period of time resulting in greater risk of delay or cancellation of projects. If we were to experience significant cancellations or delays of projects in our backlog, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. The decrease in value of our stock could negatively affect our ability to retain key managers and employees. Stock options and stock awards are a significant component of our overall compensation for key managers and employees. Our long-term incentive plans are designed to attract key managers and skilled employees and as a means to retain such managers and employees. As a result of the substantial decline in our stock price over the latter part of 2008 and continuing into 2009, many of our past stock awards have lost significant value to our key managers and employees, which may impact our ability to retain critical personnel.. Our fixed-price contracts, which may be subject to gross profit fluctuations, may impact our margin expectations. Most of our projects, including larger engineered systems projects, are performed on a fixed-price basis. We are responsible for all cost overruns, other than any resulting from customer-approved change orders and certain force majeure (natural disaster) situations. Our costs and any gross profit realized on our fixed-price contracts may vary from the estimated amounts on which these contracts were originally based for various reasons, including: errors in estimates or bidding; changes in availability and cost of labor and materials; liquidated damages and variations in productivity from our original estimates. These variations and the risks inherent in engineered systems projects may result in reduced profitability or losses on our projects. Depending on the size of a project, variations from estimated contract performance could have a significant negative impact on our operating results or our financial condition.. We make estimates in accounting for long-term contracts and changes in these estimates may impact our earnings. Approximately half of our revenue is recognized on a \"percentage of completion\" basis. We recognize revenue on contracts using the cost-to-cost method of accounting as determined by the ratio of cumulative costs incurred-to-date to estimated total contract costs at completion, multiplied by the total estimated contract revenue, less cumulative revenue recognized in prior periods. A significant change in an estimate on one or more contracts could have a material effect on our results of operations.. Long-term contracts for operation of owned CO2 separation facilities are cancelable. We operate certain owned and managed assets under long-term contracts for the processing of CO 2 in the Sacroc field in West Texas. In exchange for our operation of these assets, our customer pays us a tolling fee based on the facility's throughput. Contracts are cancelable at the customer's option subject to provisions which require, among other things, payment of significant cancellation fees. In the event of cancellation, we would receive the cancellation charge and would retain custody of the owned assets, but would lose the future revenue stream associated with the cancelled contract. There can be no assurance we would have suitable alternative uses for the assets or cash which would offset the lost revenue from any canceled contracts.. Our quarterly revenues and cash flow may fluctuate significantly. Our revenues are substantially derived from significant contracts that are often performed over periods of two to six or more quarters. As a result, our revenue and cash flow may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, depending upon our ability to replace existing contracts with new orders and upon the extent of any delays in completing existing projects.. Our earnings could be negatively impacted if we write off a significant amount of intangible or long-lived assets. Because we have grown in part through acquisitions, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets represent a substantial portion or our assets. We had goodwill and long-lived assets consisting of property, equipment and other identifiable intangible assets of $127.4 million and $109.0 million, respectively, at. 14. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. December 31, 2008. We review these assets for impairment at least annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If we determine that a significant impairment in value of our unamortized intangible or long-lived assets has occurred, we would be required to write off a substantial portion of our assets, which would negatively affect our earnings and could adversely impact our stock price.. Certain of our segments relied and may continue to rely, on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of their revenues. There have been and are expected to be periods where a substantial portion of the revenue in certain of our segments is derived from a small group of customers. We have a number of ongoing relationships with major oil companies, national oil companies and large independent producers. The loss of one or more of these ongoing relationships could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations of the affected segments.. We may experience losses caused by being unable to collect amounts due from customers. We typically do business with our customers on an open account basis. Credit limits are established for each customer and the credit exposure with them is routinely monitored. For our custom engineered built-to-order systems, customers make payments to us as the work progresses toward completion. The current credit and economic environment could significantly impact the ability of some customers to pay amounts due to the Company. If a customer becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy protection the value of the equipment may be less than the amount owed by the customer thereby creating a loss for us.. Liability to customers under warranties may adversely affect our cash flow. We typically warrant the workmanship and materials used in the equipment we manufacture. At the request of our customers, we may warrant the operational performance of the equipment we manufacture. Failure of this equipment to operate properly or to meet specifications may increase our costs by requiring additional engineering resources, replacement of parts and equipment or service or monetary reimbursement to a customer. Our warranties often are backed by letters of credit. At December 31, 2008, we had provided to our customers approximately $13.4 million in letters of credit related to performance and warranties. We have received warranty claims in the past and we expect to continue to receive them in the future. To the extent that we incur warranty claims in any period substantially in excess of our warranty reserve, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Our ability to manage third party sub-contractors could affect our profitability. For certain orders, we use third party contractors to do portions of the work. Using subcontractors carries a degree of risk and could result in project delays; escalated costs; substandard quality; rework and warranty costs that may not be recoverable under the prime contract resulting in lower project margins or, possibly, losses due to non-performance; and liquidated damages.. Competition could result in reduced profitability and loss of market share. Contracts for our products and services are generally awarded on a competitive basis. Historically, our markets have been very competitive in terms of the number of suppliers providing alternative products and technologies. The most important factors considered by our customers in awarding contracts include: price, the availability and capabilities of our equipment, our ability to meet the customer's delivery schedule, our reputation, our technology, our experience and our safety record.. In addition, we may encounter obstacles in our international operations that impair our ability to compete effectively in individual countries. These obstacles may include: subsidies granted in favor of local companies; legal requirements for local content; taxes, import duties and fees imposed on foreign operators; contracts being denominated in local currencies; lower wage rates in foreign countries; and fluctuations in the exchange value of the United States dollar compared with the local currency. Any or all these factors could adversely affect our ability to compete and thus adversely affect our results of operations.. 15. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Our international operations may experience interruptions due to political and economic risks. We operate our business and market our products and services throughout the world. We are, therefore, subject to the risks customarily attendant to international operations and investments in foreign countries. Moreover, oil and gas producing regions in which we conduct business include many countries in the Middle East, West Africa, South America and other parts of the world where risks to operations remain high. We cannot accurately predict whether these risks will increase or abate. These risks include: nationalization; expropriation; war, terrorism and civil disturbances; restrictive actions by local governments; limitations on repatriation of earnings; changes in foreign tax laws; changes in banking regulations; and changes in currency exchange rates.. The occurrence of any of these risks could have an adverse effect on regional demand for our products and services or our ability to provide them. Further, we may experience restrictions in travel to visit customers or start-up projects and we may incur added costs by implementing security precautions. An interruption of our international operations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Consistent with the laws of their respective jurisdictions of incorporation, our UK-based operations, our Japanese subsidiary and our Canadian subsidiary have made sales (as part of their ongoing businesses) of non-US equipment and services to customers in certain countries that are subject to US government trade sanctions (\"Embargoed Countries\"). In the past, these included sales to the Iraqi national oil companies permitted under the United Nations Oil-For-Food Program, Libya, Syria, Iran and Sudan. Sales to customers in Embargoed Countries were approximately 1% of our consolidated revenue in each of the years 2008, 2007 and 2006.. We could suffer an adverse result from unresolved matters pending before the Department of Justice and Securities and Exchange Commission. We have identified certain payments made in Kazakhstan that may raise implications under the FCPA. We have reported this matter to the SEC and the DOJ and have kept them apprised as to the status of the review. The SEC is conducting an investigation into the matter and the Company is cooperating with this inquiry. As part of any resolution of this matter, the DOJ, the SEC or other governmental authorities could seek criminal or civil sanctions, including monetary fines and penalties, against the Company and/or certain of its employees, as well as additional changes to its business practices and compliance programs in the event that the review or any governmental investigation identifies violations of law. To the extent any payments are determined to be illegal in Kazakhstan, it is possible that there could be penalties assessed in that jurisdiction.. Our insurance policies may not cover all claims against us or may be insufficient in amount to cover such claims. Some of our products are used in potentially hazardous production applications that can cause personal injury; loss of life; damage to property, equipment or the environment; and suspension of operations. We maintain insurance coverage against these and other risks associated with our business in accordance with standard industry practice. This insurance may not protect us against liability for some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, losses resulting from business interruption or acts of terrorism or damages from breach of contract by the Company or based on alleged fraud or deceptive trade practices. We cannot assure you our insurance will be adequate in risk coverage or policy limits to cover all losses or liabilities that we may incur. Moreover, we cannot assure that we will be able in the future to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. Any future damages caused by our products or services that are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may incur substantial costs to comply with environmental obligations. In our equipment fabrication and refurbishing operations, we generate and manage hazardous wastes. These include: waste solvents; waste paint; waste oil; wash-down wastes; and sandblasting wastes. We take appropriate steps to identify and address environmental issues before acquiring properties and to use industry-accepted operating and disposal practices regarding the management and disposal of hazardous wastes. Nevertheless, we or others may have released hazardous materials on our properties or in other locations where hazardous wastes have been taken for disposal. We may be required by federal, state or foreign environmental laws to remove hazardous wastes or to remediate. 16. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. sites where they have been released. We could also be subjected to civil and criminal penalties for violations of those laws. Our costs to comply with these laws may adversely affect our earnings.. Fluctuations in the value of the US dollar relative to other currencies may adversely affect our business. The weakness of the US dollar may render certain of our projects, which are denominated in foreign currencies, relatively less competitive. Continual weakness could have a negative impact on our sales, revenues, profitability and cash flows."
