[1] "Item 1A.     Risk Factors. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information in this Annual Report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Business. We are dependent on our Chief Executive Officer. In addition, the loss of key personnel and/or failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could make it more difficult for us to develop our business and enhance our financial performance.. We are dependent on the continued services of our senior management team, including our Chief Executive Officer, Patrick Walsh. We believe the loss of Mr. Walsh could have a material adverse effect on us and our financial performance. Currently, we do not have any long-term employment agreements with our executive officers, and we may not be able to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel to meet our business needs.. Our future profitability is not assured.. Our operating results for future periods are subject to numerous uncertainties and there can be no assurances that we will be profitable in the foreseeable future, if at all. If our revenues decrease in a given period, we may be unable to reduce operating expenses as a significant part of our operating expenses are fixed, which could materially and adversely affect our business and, therefore, our results of operations and lead to a net loss (or a larger net loss) for that period and subsequent periods.. We may be unable to attract and retain members, which could have a negative effect on our business.. The performance of our clubs is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain members, and we may not be successful in these efforts. Most of our members hold month-to-month memberships and accordingly, most members can cancel their club membership at any time without penalty. In addition, we experience attrition and must continually engage existing members and attract new members in order to maintain our membership levels and ancillary sales. There are numerous factors that have in the past and could in the future lead to a decline in membership levels or that could prevent us from increasing our membership, including a decline in our ability to deliver quality service at a competitive cost, the age and condition of our clubs and equipment, the presence of direct and indirect competition in the areas in which the clubs are located, the public's interest in fitness clubs and general economic conditions. In order to increase membership levels, we may from time to time offer lower membership rates and initiation fees. Any decrease in our average membership rates or reductions in initiation fees may adversely impact our results of operations.. 10. Table of Contents. Negative economic conditions, including increased unemployment levels and decreased consumer confidence, have in the past contributed to and in the future could lead to significant pressures and declines in economic growth, including reduced consumer spending. In a depressed economic and consumer environment, consumers and businesses may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for our services and products and such decline in demand may continue as the economy continues to struggle and disposable income declines. Other factors that could influence demand include increases in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. We believe the challenges to the global economy during the past several years have adversely affected our business and our revenues and profits and continuing challenges may result in additional adverse effects. As a result of these factors, membership levels might not be adequate to maintain our operations at current levels or permit the expansion of our operations.. In addition, to the extent our corporate clients are adversely affected by negative economic conditions, they may decide, as part of expense reduction strategies, to curtail or cancel club membership benefits provided to their respective employees. Any reductions in corporate memberships may lead to membership cancellations as we cannot assure that employees of corporate customers will choose to continue their memberships without employer subsidies. A decline in membership levels may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The level of competition in the fitness club industry could negatively impact our revenue growth and profitability.. The fitness club industry is highly competitive and continues to become more competitive. In each of the regions in which we operate, we compete with other fitness clubs, private studios, physical fitness and recreational facilities established by local governments, hospitals and businesses for their employees, amenity and condominium clubs, the YMCA and similar organizations and, to a certain extent, with racquet and tennis and other athletic clubs, country clubs, weight reducing salons and the home-use fitness equipment industry. We also compete with other entertainment and retail businesses for the discretionary income in our target demographics. We might not be able to compete effectively in the future in the regions in which we operate. Competitors include companies that are larger and have greater resources than us and also may enter these regions to our detriment. These competitive conditions may limit our ability to increase dues without a material loss in membership, attract new members and attract and retain qualified personnel. Additionally, consolidation in the fitness club industry could result in increased competition among participants, particularly large multi-facility operators that are able to compete for attractive acquisition candidates or newly constructed club locations, thereby increasing costs associated with expansion through both acquisitions and lease negotiation and real estate availability for newly constructed club locations.. The number of competitor clubs that offer lower pricing and a lower level of service continue to grow in our regions. These clubs have attracted, and may continue to attract, members away from both our fitness-only clubs and our multi-recreational clubs, particularly in the current consumer environment. Furthermore, smaller and less expensive weight loss facilities present a competitive alternative for consumers.. We also face competition from competitors offering comparable or higher pricing with higher levels of service or offerings. Larger outer-suburban, multi-recreational family fitness centers, in areas where suitable real estate is more likely to be available, also compete against our suburban, fitness-only models.. We also face competition from the increased popularity and demand for private studios offering group exercise classes. The prevalence of these smaller studios may compete against our own studio type offerings, such as cycling, Yoga and Pilates, as consumers may opt to use these competing studios to fulfill their fitness needs.. In addition, large competitors could enter the urban regions in which we operate to open a chain of clubs in these regions through one, or a series of, acquisitions.. The success of our business depends on our ability to retain the value of our brands.. Our ability to maintain our brand image and reputation is integral to our business. Maintaining, promoting and growing our brand will depend largely on the success of our marketing efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high-quality member experience. Our reputation could be jeopardized if we fail to maintain high standards for member experiences, fail to maintain high ethical, social, and environmental standards for all of our operations and activities, or we fail to appropriately respond to concerns associated with any of the foregoing or any other concerns from our members. We could be adversely impacted if we fail to achieve any of these objectives or if the reputation or image of any of our brands is tarnished or receives negative publicity.  In addition, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us, or by us, could damage our reputation and brand image. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these reasons may result in fewer memberships sold or renewed, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. 11. Table of Contents. The lower average membership dues have and may in the future negatively impact our comparable club revenue growth and our operating margins.. In the past several years, we lowered monthly dues and/or initiation and processing fees at certain clubs in order to attract more members and, as a result, initially experienced lower revenues and margin pressure. Recently, the Company has been increasing monthly dues to more accurately reflect the membership value; however, if we are unable to attract a sufficient number of new members or if we experience higher attrition as a result of these increases in monthly dues, the pressure on the Company's revenue and result of operations could be adversely impacted.. Declines in revenue have adversely affected our results or operations and cash flow from operations and we may be compelled to take additional actions which may not be successful in mitigating such effects.. We continue to experience revenue pressure from members as the fitness industry continues to be highly competitive in the geographic regions in which we compete. Also, our previous strategy of converting to a low-cost gym implemented in 2014 resulted in additional revenue pressure for the past few years. New members joined at lower monthly rates and cancellations of members paying higher rates negatively impacted our results and liquidity. In response to this, we implemented cost-savings initiatives in 2015, 2016 and 2017, which mitigated the impact the decline in revenue had on its profitability and cash flow from operations.. We continue to strategize on improving our financial results. We focus on increasing membership in existing clubs to increase revenue. We may consider additional actions within our control, including certain acquisitions, license arrangements, and the closure of unprofitable clubs upon lease expiration and the sale of certain assets. We may also consider additional strategic alternatives, including opportunities to reduce TSI, LLC's existing debt and further cost-savings initiatives. Our ability to continue to meet our obligations is dependent on our ability to generate positive cash flow from a combination of initiatives, including those mentioned above. Failure to successfully implement these initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our operations, and we would need to implement alternative plans that could include additional asset sales, additional reductions in operating costs, additional reductions in working capital, debt restructurings and the deferral of capital expenditures. There can be no assurance that such alternatives would be available to us or that we would be successful in their implementation.. Low consumer confidence levels, increased competition and decreased spending could negatively impact our financial position and result in club closures and fixed asset and goodwill impairments.. In each of the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we closed five clubs. In the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we recognized fixed asset impairment charges of $6.5 million and $742,000, respectively, at underperforming clubs. In addition, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $31.6 million in the year ended December 31, 2016. The goodwill impairment charges in 2016 was primarily due to existing members downgrading their memberships to those with lower monthly dues and new members enrolling at lower rates. Some of our club closures and impairments were due, in large part, to the economic and consumer environment, and increased competition in areas in which our clubs operate. If the economic and consumer environment were to deteriorate or not improve or if we are unable to improve the overall competitive position of our clubs, our operating performance may experience declines and we may need to recognize additional impairments of our fixed assets and goodwill and may be compelled to close additional clubs. In addition, we cannot ensure that we will be able to replace any of the revenue lost from these closed clubs from our other club operations. We will continue to monitor the results and changes in expectations of these clubs closely to determine if additional fixed asset or goodwill impairment charges will be necessary.. Our geographic concentration heightens our exposure to adverse regional developments.. As of December 31, 2017, we operated 119 fitness clubs in the New York metropolitan region, 28 fitness clubs in the Boston region, 10 fitness clubs in the Washington, D.C. region, five fitness clubs in the Philadelphia region and three fitness clubs in Switzerland. Our geographic concentration in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions and, in particular, the New York metropolitan area, heightens our exposure to adverse developments in these areas, including those related to economic and demographic changes in these regions, competition, severe weather, potential terrorist threats  or other unforeseen events.. For example, in the year ended December 31, 2012, as a result of flooding and power outages caused by Hurricane Sandy, 131 clubs were closed on October 29, 2012, with one club that closed permanently, 16 clubs that remained closed for over a week and one club that was closed for over a year and reopened in December 2013. We cannot predict the impact that any future severe weather events will have on our ability to avoid wide-spread or prolonged club closures. Any such events affecting the areas in which we operate might result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations in the future.. 12. Table of Contents. Any condition that causes people to refrain, or prevents people, from visiting our clubs, such as severe weather, outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, or threats of terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather or outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, threats of terrorist attacks or other conditions that cause people to refrain, or prevent people, from visiting our clubs.  Our business could be severely impacted by a widespread regional, national or global health epidemic. A widespread health epidemic or perception of a health epidemic (such as Ebola), whether or not traced to one of our clubs, may cause members and prospective members to avoid public gathering places or otherwise change their behaviors and impact our ability to staff our clubs. Outbreaks of disease, such as influenza, could reduce traffic in our clubs. Any of these events would negatively impact our business. In addition, any negative publicity relating to these and other health-related matters may affect members' perceptions of our clubs, reduce member and prospective member visits to our clubs and negatively impact demand for our club offerings.. Further, terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in New York City and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and other acts of violence or war may affect our markets, our operating results or the market on which our common stock trades. Our geographic concentration in the major cities in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions and, in particular, the New York City and Washington, D.C. areas, heightens our exposure to any such future terrorist attacks, which may adversely affect our clubs and result in a decrease in our revenues. The potential near-term and long-term effect these attacks may have for our members, the markets for our services and the market for our common stock are uncertain; however, their occurrence can be expected to further negatively affect the U.S. economy generally and specifically the regional markets in which we operate.  The consequences of any terrorist attacks or any armed conflicts are unpredictable; and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers for equipment and certain products and services could result in disruptions to our business and could adversely affect our revenues and gross profit.. Equipment and certain products and services used in our clubs, including our exercise equipment and point-of-sale software and hardware, are sourced from third-party suppliers. Although we believe that adequate substitutes are currently available, we depend on these third-party suppliers to operate our business efficiently and consistently meet our business requirements. The ability of these third-party suppliers to successfully provide reliable and high-quality services is subject to technical and operational uncertainties that are beyond our control, including, for our overseas suppliers, vessel availability and port delays or congestion. Any disruption to our suppliers' operations could impact our supply chain and our ability to service our existing stores and open new stores on time or at all and thereby generate revenue. If we lose such suppliers or our suppliers encounter financial hardships unrelated to the demand for our equipment or other products or services, we may not be able to identify or enter into agreements with alternative suppliers on a timely basis on acceptable terms, if at all. Transitioning to new suppliers would be time consuming and expensive and may result in interruptions in our operations. If we should encounter delays or difficulties in securing the quantity of equipment we require to open new and refurbish existing stores, our suppliers encounter difficulties meeting our demands for products or services, our websites experience delays or become impaired due to errors in the third-party technology or there is a deficiency, lack or poor quality of products or services provided, our ability to serve our members and grow our brand would be interrupted. If any of these events occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. Our trademarks and trade names may be infringed, misappropriated or challenged by others.. We believe our brand names and related intellectual property are important to our business. We seek to protect our trademarks, trade names and other intellectual property by exercising our rights under applicable trademark and copyright laws. If we were to fail to successfully protect our intellectual property rights for any reason, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any damage to our reputation could cause membership levels to decline and make it more difficult to attract new members.. Use of social media may adversely impact our reputation or subject us to fines or other penalties.. There has been a substantial increase in the use of social media platforms, including blogs, social media websites and other forms of internet-based communication, which allow individuals' access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. Negative commentary about us may be posted on social media platforms or similar devices at any time and may harm our reputation or business. Consumers value readily available information about health clubs and often act on such information without further investigation and without regard to its accuracy. The harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. In addition, social media platforms provide users with access to such a broad audience that collective action against our stores, such as boycotts, can be more easily organized. If such actions were organized, we could suffer reputational damage as well as physical damage to our stores.. 13. Table of Contents. We also use social medial platforms as marketing tools. For example, we maintain Facebook and Twitter accounts. As laws and regulations rapidly evolve to govern the use of these platforms and devices, the failure by us, our employees or third parties acting at our direction to abide by applicable laws and regulations in the use of these platforms and devices could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations or subject us to fines or other penalties.. If we fail to comply with applicable privacy, security, and data laws, regulations and standards, our business could be materially and adversely affected.. We use electronic mail (\"email\"), text messages and phone calls to market our services to potential members and as a means of communicating with our existing members. The laws and regulations governing the use of telephonic communication, including but not limited to emails, text messages and phone calls, for commercial purposes continue to evolve. Because messaging and phone calls are important to our business, if we are unable to successfully deliver messages or make phone calls to existing members and potential members, if there are legal restrictions on delivering these messages to consumers, or if consumers do not or cannot receive our messages or phone calls, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. If new laws or regulations are adopted, or existing laws and regulations are interpreted, to impose additional restrictions on our ability to call or send email or text messages to our members or potential members, we may not be able to communicate with them in a cost-effective manner and it may limit our ability to utilize such forms of communication. In addition to legal restrictions on the use of emails, text messages and phone calls for commercial purposes, service providers and others attempt to block the transmission of unsolicited messages, commonly known as \"spam.\" Many service providers have relationships with organizations whose purpose it is to detect and notify the service providers of entities that the organization believes is sending unsolicited messages. If a service provider identifies messaging from us as \"spam\" as a result of reports from these organizations or otherwise, we could be placed on a restricted list that will block our messages to members or potential members. If we are restricted or unable to communicate through emails, text messages or phone calls with our members and potential members as a result of legislation, regulation, blockage or otherwise, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely effected.. If we are unable to identify and acquire suitable sites for new clubs, our revenue growth rate and profits may be negatively impacted.. To successfully expand our business over the long term, we must identify and acquire sites that meet our site selection criteria. In addition to finding sites with the right geographical, demographic and other measures we employ in our selection process, we also need to evaluate the penetration of our competitors in the region. We face competition from other health and fitness center operators for sites that meet our criteria and as a result, we may lose those sites or we could be forced to pay higher prices for those sites. If we are unable to identify and acquire sites for new clubs on attractive terms, our revenue, growth rate and profits may be negatively impacted. Additionally, if our analysis of the suitability of a site is incorrect, we may not be able to recover our capital investment in developing and building a new club.. Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other consequences that may adversely impact our business and results of operations.. Part of our key strategy is to grow through acquisitions. We expect to continue to evaluate and enter into discussions regarding a wide array of potential strategic transactions. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to successfully integrate these acquisitions into our existing business without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial difficulties. The areas where we face risks include:. • diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to acquisition integration challenges;. • difficulties in the transition of acquired members onto our systems;. • the acquired businesses failing to provide, or delays in realizing, the benefits originally anticipated;. • integration of the acquired company's accounting, human resource, and other administrative systems, and coordination of sales and marketing functions;. • challenges related to the lack of experience in operating in the geographical regions of the acquired business;. • unanticipated contract or regulatory issues and the assumption of, and exposure to, unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired businesses.. 14. Table of Contents. We anticipate that any future acquisitions we pursue as part of our business strategy may be financed through a combination of cash on hand, operating cash flow and availability under our existing credit facility. If new debt is added to current debt levels, or if we incur other liabilities, including contingent liabilities, in connection with an acquisition, the debt or liabilities could impose additional constraints and requirements on our business and financial performance, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operations.. If an acquisition is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations or does not result in the benefits we expect, as a result of the factors mentioned above or otherwise, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, failure to integrate successfully or realize the anticipated business opportunities and growth prospects from our acquisitions, could result in unanticipated expenses and losses and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations. Accordingly, in connection with any acquisition, there can be no assurance as to whether or when any benefits or cost synergies we hope to achieve will occur, or the extent to which they actually will be achieved.. We have, and will continue to have, significant lease obligations. We are subject to risks associated with leasing substantial amounts of space, including future increases in occupancy costs and the need to generate significant cash flow to meet our lease obligations.. We have, and will continue to have, significant lease obligations. We currently lease substantially all of our fitness club locations pursuant to long-term leases (generally 15 to 20 years, including option periods).  During the next five years, or the period from January 1, 2018 through December 31, 2022, we have leases for 25 club locations that are due to expire without any renewal options, eight of which expire in 2018, and 61 club locations that are due to expire with renewal options. For leases with renewal options, several of them provide for our unilateral option to renew for additional rental periods at specific rental rates (for example, based on the consumer price index or stated renewal terms already set in the leases) or based on the fair market rate at the location.  Our ability to negotiate favorable terms on an expiring lease or to negotiate favorable terms on leases with renewal options, or conversely for a suitable alternate location, could depend on conditions in the real estate market, competition for desirable properties and our relationships with current and prospective landlords or may depend on other factors that are not within our control. Any or all of these factors and conditions could negatively impact our revenue, growth and profitability.. In addition to future minimum lease payments, some of our club leases provide for additional rental payments based on a percentage of net sales, or \"percentage rent,\" if sales at the respective stores exceed specified levels, as well as the payment of common area maintenance charges, real property insurance, and real estate taxes. Many of our lease agreements have defined escalating rent provisions over the initial term and any extensions.. We depend on cash flow from operations to pay our lease expenses. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to fund these expenses, we may not be able to service our lease expenses, which could materially harm our business. Furthermore, the significant cash flow required to satisfy our obligations under the leases increases our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry, and competitive conditions, and could limit our ability to fund working capital, incur indebtedness, and make capital expenditures or other investments in our business.. If an existing or future club is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. Moreover, even if a lease has an early cancellation clause, we may not satisfy the contractual requirements for early cancellation under that lease. Our inability to enter into new leases or renew existing leases on terms acceptable to us or be released from our obligations under leases for stores that we close could materially adversely affect us.. We may experience prolonged periods of losses in our recently opened clubs and when we open new clubs in existing regions our comparable club revenue growth and our operating margins may be negatively impacted.. Upon opening a club, we typically experience an initial period of club operating losses. The sale of memberships typically generates insufficient revenue for the club to initially generate positive cash flow. As a result, a new club typically generates an operating loss in its first full year of operations and substantially lower margins in its second full year of operations than a club opened for more than 24 months. These operating losses and lower margins will negatively impact our future results of operations. This negative impact will be increased by the initial expensing of pre-opening costs, which include legal and other costs associated with lease negotiations and permitting and zoning requirements, as well as depreciation and amortization expenses, which will further negatively impact our results of operations. We may, at our discretion, accelerate or expand our plans to open new clubs, which may adversely affect results from operations.. 15. Table of Contents. We currently operate clubs throughout the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States. In the case of existing regions, our experience has been that opening new clubs may attract some memberships away from other clubs already operated by us in those regions and diminish their revenues. In addition, as a result of new club openings in existing regions and because older clubs will represent an increasing proportion of our club base over time, our mature club revenue increases may be lower in future periods than in the past.. Another result of opening new clubs is that our club operating margins may be lower than they have been historically while the clubs build a membership base. We expect both the addition of pre-opening expenses and the lower revenue volumes characteristic of newly opened clubs to affect our club operating margins at these new clubs.. We are subject to government regulation, and changes in these regulations could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations and business practices are subject to federal, state and local government regulation in the various jurisdictions in which our clubs are located, including, but not limited to the following:. • general rules and regulations of the Federal Trade Commission;. • rules and regulations of state and local consumer protection agencies;. • state statutes that prescribe certain forms and provisions of membership contracts. • state statutes that govern the advertising, sale, financing and collection of memberships;. • federal and state laws and regulations governing privacy and security of information; and. • state and local health regulations. Any changes in such laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We could be subject to claims related to health or safety risks at our clubs.. Use of our clubs poses some potential health or safety risks to members or guests through physical exertion and use of our services and facilities, including exercise equipment. Claims might be asserted against us for injury suffered by, or death of members or guests while exercising at a club. We might not be able to successfully defend such claims. As a result, we might not be able to maintain our general liability insurance on acceptable terms in the future or maintain a level of insurance that would provide adequate coverage against potential claims.. Depending upon the outcome, these matters may have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We may be exposed to other litigation from time to time that can have significant adverse effects upon us.. In the ordinary course of conducting our business, we are exposed to litigation from time to time that can have significant adverse effects upon our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. At any given time there may be one or more civil actions initiated against us, including the matters disclosed under \"Legal Proceedings\" in this Annual Report. If one or more of these pending lawsuits, or any lawsuits in the future are adjudicated in a manner adverse to our interests, or if a settlement of any lawsuit requires us to pay a significant amount, the result could have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, any litigation, regardless of the outcome, may distract our management from the operation of our business.. 16. Table of Contents. Security and privacy breaches may expose us to liability and cause us to lose customers.. Federal and state law requires us to safeguard our customers' financial information, including credit card information. Although we have established security procedures and protocol, including credit card industry compliance procedures, to protect against identity theft and the theft of our customers' financial information, our security and testing measures may not prevent security breaches and breaches of our customers' privacy may occur, which could harm our business. For example, a significant number of our users provide us with credit card and other confidential information and authorize us to bill their credit card accounts directly for our products and services. Typically, we rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to enhance transmission security of confidential information. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and are constantly evolving.  These techniques and other advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, inadequate facility security or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us or one of our vendors to protect customer data. We may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive or reactive measures.  Several recent, highly publicized data security breaches at other companies have heightened consumer awareness of this issue.  Further, a significant number of states require the customers be notified if a security breach results in the disclosure of their personal financial account or other information.  Additional states and governmental entities are considering such \"notice\" laws.  In addition, other public disclosure laws may require that material security breaches be reported.. Any compromise of our security or that of our third party vendors or noncompliance with privacy or other laws or requirements could harm our reputation, cause our members to lose confidence in us, or harm our financial condition and, therefore, our business. In addition, a party who is able to circumvent our security measures or exploit inadequacies in our security measures or that of our third party vendors, could, among other effects, misappropriate proprietary information, cause interruptions in our operations or expose members to computer viruses or other disruptions. We may be required to make significant expenditures to protect against security breaches or to remedy problems caused by any breaches.  Actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us. To the extent the measures taken by us or our third party vendors prove to be insufficient or inadequate, we may become subject to litigation or administrative sanctions, which could result in significant fines, penalties or damages and harm to our reputation.. Changes in legislation or requirements related to electronic fund transfer, or our failure to comply with existing or future regulations, may adversely impact our business.. We primarily accept payments for our memberships through EFT from members' bank accounts and, therefore, we are subject to federal, state and provincial legislation and certification requirements governing EFT, including the Electronic Funds Transfer Act. Some states, such as New York, have passed or have considered legislation requiring gyms and health clubs to offer a prepaid membership option at all times and/or limit the duration for which gym memberships can auto-renew through EFT payments, if at all. Our business relies heavily on the fact that our memberships continue on a month-to-month basis after the completion of any initial term requirements, and compliance with these laws and regulations and similar requirements may be onerous and expensive. In addition, variances and inconsistencies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction may further increase the cost of compliance and doing business. States that have such health club statutes provide harsh penalties for violations, including membership contracts being void or voidable. Our failure to comply fully with these rules or requirements may subject us to fines, higher transaction fees, penalties, damages and civil liability and may result in the loss of our ability to accept EFT payments, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any such costs, which may arise in the future as a result of changes to the legislation and regulations or in their interpretation, could individually or in the aggregate cause us to change or limit our business practice, which may make our business model less attractive to our members.. We are subject to a number of risks related to ACH, credit card and debit card payments we accept.. We accept payments through automated clearing house (\"ACH\"), credit card and debit card transactions. For ACH, credit card and debit card payments, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time. An increase in those fees would require us to either increase the prices we charge for our memberships, which could cause us to lose members or suffer an increase in our operating expenses, either of which could harm our operating results.. If we or any of our processing vendors have problems with our billing software, or the billing software malfunctions, it could have an adverse effect on our member satisfaction and could cause one or more of the major credit card companies to disallow our continued use of their payment products. In addition, if our billing software fails to work properly and, as a result, we do not automatically charge our members' credit cards, debit cards or bank accounts on a timely basis or at all, we could lose membership revenue, which would harm our operating results.. 17. Table of Contents. If we fail to adequately control fraudulent ACH, credit card and debit card transactions, we may face civil liability, diminished public perception of our security measures and significantly higher ACH, credit card and debit card related costs, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The termination of our ability to process payments through ACH transactions or on any major credit or debit card would significantly impair our ability to operate our business.. Regulatory changes in the terms of credit and debit card usage, including any existing or future regulatory requirements, could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our business relies heavily on the use of credit and debit cards in sales transactions. Regulatory changes to existing rules or future regulatory requirements affecting the use of credit and debit cards or the fees charged could impact the consumer and financial institutions that provide card services. This may lead to an adverse impact on our business if the regulatory changes result in unfavorable terms to either the consumer or the banking institutions.. Disruptions and failures involving our information systems could cause customer dissatisfaction and adversely affect our billing and other administrative functions.. The continuing and uninterrupted performance of our information systems is critical to our success. We use a fully-integrated information system to process new memberships, bill members, check-in members and track and analyze sales and membership statistics, the frequency and timing of member workouts, cross-club utilization, member life, value-added services and demographic profiles by member. This system also assists us in evaluating staffing needs and program offerings. We believe that, without investing in enhancements, this system was approaching the end of its life cycle. Correcting any disruptions or failures that affect our proprietary system could be difficult, time-consuming and expensive because we would need to use contracted consultants familiar with our system.. Any failure of our current system could also cause us to lose members and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our members may become dissatisfied by any systems disruption or failure that interrupts our ability to provide our services to them. Disruptions or failures that affect our billing and other administrative functions could have an adverse effect on our operating results.. Infrastructure changes are being undertaken to accommodate our growth, provide network redundancy, better manage telecommunications and data costs, increase efficiencies in operations and improve management of all components of our technical architecture. Fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, acts of terrorism and similar events could damage our systems. In addition, computer viruses, electronic break-ins or other similar disruptive problems could also adversely affect our sites. Any system disruption or failure, security breach or other damage that interrupts or delays our operations could cause us to lose members, damage our reputation, and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our growth or changes in the industry could place strains on our management, employees, information systems and internal controls, which may adversely impact our business.. Future expansion or changes in the industry will place increased demands on our administrative, operational, financial and other resources. Any failure to manage such growth or changes effectively could seriously harm our business. To be successful, we will need to continue to improve management information systems and our operating, administrative, financial and accounting systems and controls. We will also need to train new employees and maintain close coordination among our executive, accounting, finance, marketing, sales and operations functions. These processes are time-consuming and expensive, increase management responsibilities and divert management attention.. Outsourcing certain aspects of our business could result in disruption and increased costs.. We have outsourced certain aspects of our business to third party vendors that subject us to risks, including disruptions in our business and increased costs. For example, we have engaged third parties to host and manage certain aspects of our data center, information and technology infrastructure and electronic pay solutions. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks associated with the vendor's ability to provide these services to meet our needs. If the cost of these services is more than expected, if the vendor is not able to handle the volume of activity or perform the quality of service that we expect, if we or the vendor are unable to adequately protect our data and information is lost, if our ability to deliver our services is interrupted, or if our third party vendors face financial or other difficulties, then our business and results of operations may be negatively impacted.. 18. Table of Contents. Our cash and cash equivalents are concentrated in a small number of banks.. Our cash and cash equivalents are held, primarily, in a small number of commercial banks. These deposits are not collateralized. In the event these banks become insolvent, we would be unable to recover most of our cash and cash equivalents deposited at the banks. Cash and cash equivalents held in one commercial bank as of December 31, 2017 totaled $19.9 million. During 2017, in any one month, the amount held in one commercial bank has been as high as approximately $45.2 million.. Because of the capital-intensive nature of our business, we may have to incur additional indebtedness or issue new equity securities and, if we are not able to obtain additional capital, our ability to operate or expand our business may be impaired and our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our business requires significant levels of capital to finance the development of additional sites for new clubs and the construction of our clubs. If cash from available sources is insufficient or unavailable due to restrictive credit markets, or if cash is used for unanticipated needs, we may require additional capital sooner than anticipated. In the event that we are required or choose to raise additional funds, we may be unable to do so on favorable terms or at all. Furthermore, the cost of debt financing could significantly increase, making it cost-prohibitive to borrow, which could force us to issue new equity securities. If we issue new equity securities, existing stockholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to execute our current growth plans, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. Any inability to raise additional capital when required could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results.. We may incur rising costs related to construction of new clubs and maintaining our existing clubs. If we are not able to pass these cost increases through to our members, our returns may be adversely affected.. Our clubs require significant upfront investment. If our investment is higher than we had planned, we may need to outperform our operational plan to achieve our targeted return. We cannot assure that we can offset cost increases by increasing our membership dues and other fees and improving profitability through cost efficiencies.. We may be required to remit unclaimed property to states for unused, expired personal training sessions.. We recognize revenue from personal training sessions as the services are performed (i.e., when the session is trained). Unused personal training sessions expire after a set, disclosed period of time after purchase and are not refundable or redeemable by the member for cash. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $12.5 million of unused and expired personal training sessions that had not been recognized as revenue and was recorded as deferred revenue. We do not believe this amount is subject to the escheatment or abandoned property laws of any of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, including the State of New York. It is possible however, that one or more of these jurisdictions may not agree with our position and may claim that we must remit all or a portion of these amounts to such jurisdiction. This could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows. The State of New York has informed us that it is considering whether we are required to remit the amount received by us for unused, expired personal training sessions to the State of New York as unclaimed property.  For a total of six of the jurisdictions in which we operate, we have concluded, based on opinions from outside counsel, that monies held by a company for unused and expired personal training sessions are not escheatable. In 2010, for three jurisdictions, we concluded, based on opinions from outside counsel, that monies held by a company for unused and expired personal training sessions are not escheatable. As a result, we recorded approximately $2.7 million as personal training revenue in the fourth quarter of 2010. This amount was previously recorded in deferred revenue. In 2017, for another three jurisdictions, we concluded, based on opinions from outside counsel, that money held by a company for unused and expired personal training sessions are not escheatable. As a result, we recorded approximately $3.6 million as personal training revenue in the fourth quarter of 2017. This amount was previously recorded in deferred revenue, which was primarily related to sessions purchased prior to the year ended December 31, 2015.. 19. Table of Contents. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities.. From time to time, we are under audit by federal and local tax authorities and we may be liable for additional tax obligations and may incur additional costs in defending any claims that may arise.   For example, as of December 31, 2017, certain of our state and local tax returns from years 2006 through 2014 were currently being examined by certain state and local jurisdictions and it is difficult to predict the final outcome or timing of resolution of any particular matter regarding these examinations.  In particular, we disagree with the proposed assessment dated December 12, 2016 from the State of New York and attended a conciliation conference with the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance Audit section on June 7, 2017. No settlement was reached at the conference and the proposed assessment was sustained. As such, in a revised letter dated November 30, 2017, we received from the State of New York a revised assessment related to tax years 2006-2009 for approximately $5.1 million, inclusive of approximately $2.4 million of interest.  We currently are in the process of appealing the assessment with the New York State Division of Tax Appeals. We have not recorded a tax reserve related to the proposed assessment. It is difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of this or any other tax examination and the result of any such tax examination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, on November 17, 2017, we were notified that the State of New York proposed an adjustment in the amount of approximately $3.9 million for the years 2010 to 2014, inclusive of approximately $757,000 in interest.. Risks Related to Our Leverage and Our Indebtedness. On November 15, 2013, TSI, LLC entered into a $370.0 million senior secured credit facility (\"2013 Senior Credit Facility\"). The 2013 Senior Credit Facility consists of a $325.0 million term loan facility (\"2013 Term Loan Facility\"), and a $45.0 million revolving loan facility (\"2013 Revolving Loan Facility\"). The 2013 Term Loan Facility matures on November 15, 2020, and the 2013 Revolving Loan Facility matures on November 15, 2018.. We may be negatively affected by economic conditions in the U.S. and key international markets.. We must maintain liquidity to fund our working capital, service our outstanding indebtedness and finance investment opportunities. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations or we may not be able to pursue new business opportunities. The principal sources of our liquidity are funds generated from operating activities, available cash and cash equivalents and borrowings under our 2013 Revolving Loan Facility. If our current resources do not satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may have to seek additional financing.. Economic conditions, both domestic and foreign, may affect our financial performance. Prevailing economic conditions, including unemployment levels, inflation, availability of credit, energy costs and other macro-economic factors, as well as uncertainty about future economic conditions, adversely affect consumer spending and, consequently, our business and results of operations.. Our leverage may impair our financial condition, and we may incur significant additional debt.. We currently have a substantial amount of debt. As of December 31, 2017, our total outstanding consolidated debt was $199.9 million under our 2013 Term Loan Facility. The 2013 Term Loan Facility expires on November 15, 2020. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, under the 2013 Revolving Loan Facility there were no outstanding borrowings and outstanding letters of credit issued totaled $7.0 million, which if still outstanding, will likely need to be funded by our cash upon the expiration of the 2013 Revolving Loan Facility on November 15, 2018. The unutilized portion of the 2013 Revolving Loan Facility as of December 31, 2017 was $38.0 million, with borrowings under such facility subject to the conditions applicable to borrowings under our 2013 Senior Credit Facility, which conditions we may or may not be able to satisfy at the time of borrowing. Our substantial debt could have important consequences, including:. • making it more difficult to satisfy our obligations, including with respect to our outstanding indebtedness;. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions of new clubs and other general corporate requirements;. • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations for the payment of interest on our debt, which is variable on our 2013 Revolving Loan Facility and partially variable on our 2013 Term Loan Facility, and/or principal pursuant to excess cash flow requirements and reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions of new clubs and general corporate requirements;. • increasing our vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations in connection with borrowings under our 2013 Senior Credit Facility, some of which are at variable interest rates;. 20. Table of Contents. • limiting our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness on favorable terms before the expiration of the current 2013 Term Loan Facility, or at all; and. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate.. These limitations and consequences may place us at a competitive disadvantage to other less-leveraged competitors.. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries' current debt levels, the related risks that we and they currently face could intensify.. The current debt under the 2013 Senior Credit Facility has a floating interest rate and an increase in interest rates may negatively impact our financial results.. Interest rates applicable to our debt are expected to fluctuate based on economic and market factors that are beyond our control. In particular, the unhedged portion of $39.9 million of our outstanding debt under our 2013 Senior Credit Facility as of December 31, 2017, has a floating interest rate. Any significant increase in market interest rates, and in particular the short-term Eurodollar rates, would result in a significant increase in interest expense on our debt, which could negatively impact our net income and cash flows.. The Company may be unsuccessful in its efforts to effectively hedge against interest rate changes on our variable rate debt.. In its normal operations, the Company is exposed to market risk relating to fluctuations in interest rates. In order to minimize the negative impact of such fluctuations on the Company's cash flows, the Company may enter into derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps. The Company's current interest rate swap arrangement is with one financial institution and covers $160.0 million of our current $199.9 million outstanding term loan principal balance with the swap expiring on May 15, 2018. We are exposed to credit risk if the counterparty to the agreement is not able to perform on its obligations. Additionally, a failure on our part to effectively hedge against interest rate changes may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are required to record the interest rate swap at its fair value. Changes in interest rates can significantly impact the valuation of the instrument resulting in non-cash changes to our financial position.. Credit market volatility may affect our ability to refinance our existing debt, borrow funds under our existing lines of credit or incur additional debt.. Future disruption and volatility in credit market conditions could have a material adverse impact on our ability to refinance debt when it comes due on terms similar to our current credit facilities, or to draw upon existing lines of credit or incur additional debt if needed as a result of unanticipated downturns in the markets for our products and services, which may require us or our subsidiaries to seek other funding sources to meet our cash requirements. We cannot be certain that alternative sources of financing would be available in the future on terms and conditions that are acceptable.. Our outstanding indebtedness and the inability to renew or refinance our 2013 Senior Credit Facility could materially adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our business.. We will need to refinance our outstanding debt as it matures. There is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt or refinance our existing debt at all. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. In addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity securities, which could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt or raise additional capital. These risks could impair the Company's liquidity and would likely have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations.. Covenant restrictions under our indebtedness may limit our ability to operate our business and, in such an event, we may not have sufficient assets to settle our indebtedness.. Our 2013 Senior Credit Facility and the agreements related thereto contain, among other things, covenants that may restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities and that may impact our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to:. • incur debt;. • pay dividends or make distributions;. • purchase or redeem stock;. 21. Table of Contents. • make investments and extend credit;. • engage in transactions with affiliates;. • engage in sale-leaseback transactions;. • consummate certain asset sales;. • effect a consolidation or merger or sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and. • create liens on our assets.. The terms of the 2013 Senior Credit Facility provide for a financial covenant in the situation where the total utilization of the revolving loan commitments (other than letters of credit up to $5.5 million at any time outstanding) exceeds 25% of the aggregate amount of those commitments. In such event, TSI, LLC is required to maintain a total leverage ratio, as defined in the 2013 Senior Credit Facility, of no greater than 4.50:1.00. As of December 31, 2017, TSI, LLC had outstanding letters of credit of $7.0 million and a total leverage ratio that was below 4.50:1.00. Other than these outstanding letters of credit, TSI, LLC did not have any amounts utilized on the 2013 Revolving Loan Facility. The terms of the 2013 Senior Credit Facility include a financial covenant under which the Company is not able to utilize more than 25%, or $11.3 million, in accordance with terms of the 2013 Revolving Loan Facility if the total leverage ratio exceeds 4.50:1:00 (calculated on a proforma basis to give effect to any borrowing).. Events beyond our control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, may affect our ability to meet certain financial ratios under the 2013 Senior Credit Facility. We may be unable to meet those tests and the lenders may decide not to waive any failure to meet those tests. A failure to satisfy these tests could limit our ability to obtain funds to pay dividends or cause a default under the 2013 Senior Credit Facility. If an event of default under the 2013 Senior Credit Facility occurs, the lenders could elect to terminate any and all outstanding undrawn commitments to lend and declare all amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If any such event should occur, we might not have sufficient assets to pay our indebtedness and meet our other obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We will need to repay any indebtedness under the 2013 Revolving Loan Facility in the event the 2013 Revolving Loan Facility is not extended, restructured or refinanced.. The 2013 Revolving Loan Facility will mature on November 15, 2018. Given that the 2013 Senior Credit Facility contains a restrictive covenant on obtaining secured debt, if we are unable to extend, restructure or refinance the 2013 Revolving Loan Facility prior to maturity, all letters of credit that remain outstanding under the 2013 Revolving Loan Facility will become immediately due and payable upon maturity. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had a total of approximately $7.0 million letters of credit outstanding under the 2013 Revolving Loan Facility. This acceleration of payment related to the letters of credit could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. The stock ownership of certain large stockholders will likely limit your ability to influence corporate matters.. As of February 23, 2018, the Company had two stockholders (including Patrick Walsh, the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our board of directors) which, together with each such stockholder's affiliates, beneficially owned 13.7% and 31.2% of our outstanding common stock, respectively, based on public filings made by such stockholders. Each of these stockholders may vote their stock with respect to certain matters, including any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations, the acquisition of assets for stock consideration or disposition of all or substantially all of our assets, and the issuance of any additional common stock or other equity securities, in a manner which may not be viewed as beneficial by other stockholders.. Our stock price could be extremely volatile, and, as a result, you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for them.. In recent years the stock market in general has been highly volatile. As a result, the market price and trading volume of our common stock is likely to be similarly volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease, which could be substantial, in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our results of operations or prospects, and could lose part or all of their investment. The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those described elsewhere in this report and others such as:. 22. Table of Contents. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us;. • changes in the market's expectations about our operating results;. • success of competitors;. • our operating results failing to meet the expectation of securities analysts or investors in a particular period;. • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning us or our industry in general;. • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company;. • our ability to market new and enhanced services on a timely basis;. • changes in laws and regulations affecting our business;. • our ability to meet compliance requirements;. • commencement of, or involvement in, litigation involving us;. • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; any major change in our board of directors or management;. • sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our directors, executive officers or significant stockholders or the perception that such sales could occur; and. • general economic and political conditions such as recessions, interest rates, fuel prices, and acts of war or terrorism.. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation.. Your percentage ownership in us may be diluted by future issuances of capital stock, which could reduce your influence over matters on which stockholders vote.. Our board of directors has the authority, without action or vote of our stockholders, to issue all or any part of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock, including shares issuable upon the exercise of options, or shares of our authorized but unissued preferred stock. Issuances of common stock or voting preferred stock would reduce your influence over matters on which our stockholders vote and, in the case of issuances of preferred stock, would likely result in your interest in us being subject to the prior rights of holders of that preferred stock.. Because we have no current plans to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it.. We may retain future earnings, if any, for future operations, expansion and debt repayment and have no current plans to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends may be limited by covenants of any existing and future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including our credit facility. As a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless you sell our common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it."
