[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following is a cautionary discussion of the most significant risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are significant to our business and should be considered carefully in conjunction with all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the risks described below actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting us in each of these categories of risk. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.. Risks Relating to Our Business. Market and Industry Risks. Our revenue is derived from the global travel industry and a prolonged or substantial decrease in global travel volume, particularly air travel, as well as other industry trends, could adversely affect us.. Our revenue is derived from the global travel industry. As a result, our revenue is directly related to the overall level of travel activity, particularly air travel volume, and is therefore significantly impacted by declines in, or disruptions to, travel in any region due to factors entirely outside of our control. Such factors include:. 17. •global security issues, political instability, acts or threats of terrorism, including those that target the travel industry, hostilities or war and other political issues that could adversely affect global air travel volume;. •epidemics or pandemics, such as the Zika virus, the ebola virus and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome and;. •natural disasters, such as hurricanes, volcanic activity and resulting ash clouds, earthquakes and tsunamis;. •general economic conditions, particularly to the extent that adverse conditions may cause a decline in travel volume, such as the crisis in the global credit and financial markets, diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence and discretionary income, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates and uncertainty about economic stability;. •the impact on business conditions worldwide as a result of political decisions, including the U.K.’s decision to leave the E.U.;. •the financial condition of travel providers, including airlines, hotels and car rental providers and the impact of any changes such as travel provider bankruptcies or mergers, on the cost and availability of air travel and hotel rooms;. •changes to laws and regulations governing the airline and travel industry and the adoption of new laws and regulations detrimental to operations, including potential enhanced travel restrictions;. •fuel price escalation or availability;. •work stoppages or labor unrest at any of the major airlines or other travel providers or at airports;. •increased security, particularly airport security, that could reduce the convenience of air travel;. •travelers’ perception of the occurrence of travel related accidents, of the environmental impact of air travel, particularly in regards to CO2 emissions, or of the scope, severity and timing of the other factors described above; and. •changes in hotel occupancy rates.. If there were to be a prolonged substantial decrease in travel volume, particularly air travel volume, for these or any other reason, it would have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The travel industry is highly competitive, and we are subject to risks relating to competition that may adversely affect our performance.. Our business operates in highly competitive industries. If we cannot compete effectively, we may lose share to our competitors, which may adversely affect our financial performance. Our continued success depends, to a large extent, upon our ability to compete effectively in industries that contain numerous competitors, some of which may have significantly greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than us.. Our Travel Commerce Platform has two different primary categories of customers, namely travel providers, which provide travel content, and travel agencies, which shop for and book that content on behalf of end customers. The inter-dependence of effectively serving these customer groups, and the resulting network effects, may impact our ability to attract customers. If we are unable to attract a sufficient number of travel providers to provide comprehensive travel content, our ability to service travel agencies will be adversely impacted. Conversely, if we are unable to attract or retain a sufficient number of travel agencies, our ability to maintain our large base of travel providers and attract new travel providers will be impaired.. In addition to supplying sufficient content, the ability of our Travel Commerce Platform to attract travel agencies is dependent on the development of new products to enhance our Travel Commerce Platform and on the provision of adequate commissions to travel agencies. Competition to attract travel agencies is particularly intense as travel agencies, particularly larger ones, have the ability to access content from a variety of sources, including subscribing to more than one GDS at any given time. We also have had to, and expect that it will continue in certain circumstances to be necessary to, increase commissions to travel agencies in connection with renewals of their contracts, which may in the future reduce margins. If travel agencies are dissatisfied with our Travel Commerce Platform or we do not pay adequate commissions or provide other incentives to travel agencies to remain competitive, our Travel Commerce Platform may lose a number of travel agencies.. 18. Our Travel Commerce Platform competes against traditional GDSs operated by Amadeus and Sabre, as well as against local distribution systems and alternative distribution technologies. Our Travel Commerce Platform also competes against direct distribution of travel content by travel providers, such as airlines, hotels and car rental companies, many of which distribute all or part of their inventory directly through their own travel distribution websites. In addition, our Travel Commerce Platform competes against travel providers that supply content directly to travel agencies as well as new companies in the industry that are developing distribution systems without the large technology investment and network costs of a traditional GDS. The revolutionary emergence of mobile applications that link directly to providers may create a vigorous source of new competition that bypasses GDSs.. Increased competition may result in reduced operating margins, as well as loss of share and brand recognition. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and competitive pressures we face could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. In addition, our customers may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors such as search engines and meta-search products, and competitive pressures could result in, among other things, reduced operating margins, loss of share and brand recognition.  Such potential negative impacts on our customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. If we fail to develop and deliver new innovative products or enhance our existing products and services in a timely and cost-effective manner in response to rapid technological change and customer demands, our business will suffer.. Our industry is subject to constant and rapid technological change and product obsolescence as customers and competitors create new and innovative products and technologies. Products or technologies developed by our competitors may render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We must develop innovative products and services and enhance our existing products and services to meet rapidly evolving demands to attract travel agencies. The development process to design leading, sustainable and desirable products to generate new revenue streams and profits requires us to accurately anticipate technological changes and business trends. Developing and enhancing these products is uncertain and can be time-consuming, costly and complex. For example, we may not be successful in developing products or integrating and distributing multi-source content obtained through traditional sources and new distribution capabilities promoted by our largest airline customers. If we do not continue to develop innovative products that are in demand by our customers, we may be unable to maintain existing customers or attract new customers. Customer and business requirements can change during the development process. There is a risk that these developments and enhancements will be late, fail to meet customer or business specifications, not be competitive with products or services from our competitors that offer comparable or superior performance and functionality or fail to generate new revenue streams and profits. Our business will suffer if we fail to develop and introduce new innovative products and services or product and service enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis.. Trends in pricing and other terms of agreements among airlines and travel agencies have become less favorable to us, and a further deterioration or a failure to renew these agreements may occur in the future, which could reduce our revenue and margins.. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from fees paid by airlines for bookings made through our Travel Commerce Platform. Airlines have sought to reduce or eliminate these fees in an effort to reduce distribution costs. One manner in which they have done so is to develop their own offerings tailored to our travel agencies, often using new distribution capabilities promoted by IATA, in an attempt to drive business to their direct channels. This tactic has been accompanied by surcharges that certain suppliers have imposed on GDS channel bookings. We have negotiated new agreements containing revised business models and price points with surcharging carriers while procuring the content available from these carriers, resulting in increased fees for surcharged bookings. Another manner is to differentiate the content, in this case, the fares and inventory, that they provide to us and to our competitors from the content that they distribute directly themselves, whether through their website, direct connections with travel agencies or other mechanism to bypass us and our competitors. In these cases, airlines may provide some of their content to us and our competitors, while withholding other content, such as lower cost fares, for distribution via other channels unless we agree to significant discounts. Certain airlines have withdrawn, and other airlines have threatened to withdraw, content, in whole or in part, from us or our competitors as a means of obtaining lower booking fees or, alternatively, have charged, or threatened to charge, to access their lower cost fares or charge travel agencies or consumers for bookings generated in our Travel Commerce Platform. There also has been an increase in the number of airlines that seek to sell optional ancillary services, such as fees for checked baggage or premium seats, only through their direct distribution channels, which threaten to further fragment content and disadvantage us and our competitors by making it more difficult to deliver a platform that allows travel agencies to shop for a single, “all-inclusive” price for travel. Increased use by airlines of new distribution capabilities to direct travel agencies to their own websites or direct connections with travel agencies and/or the imposition of surcharges by airlines could reduce the content available on, and transactions booked in, our Travel Commerce Platform.. 19. We have entered into content agreements with most major carriers in the Americas and Europe, and a growing number of carriers in the Middle East and Africa, which provides us with access to the near-complete scope of public fares and inventory which the carriers generally make available through direct channels, such as their own websites, with a contract duration usually ranging from three to  ten years. In addition, we have entered into agreements with most major carriers in Asia Pacific, which provide us with access to varying levels of their content. We may not be able to renew these agreements on a commercially reasonable basis or at all. If we are unable to renew these agreements, our financial results will be adversely impacted and we may be disadvantaged compared to our competitors. The content agreements have required us to make price concessions to the participating airlines. If we are required to make additional concessions to renew or extend the agreements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, as existing content agreements come up for renewal, there is no guarantee that the participating airlines will continue to provide their content to us to the same extent or on the same terms as they do now. For example, our content agreements with airlines representing approximately 11% of Travel Commerce Platform revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017 are up for renewal or are potentially terminable by such airlines in 2018. In addition, certain content agreements may be terminated earlier pursuant to the specific terms of each agreement. A substantial reduction in the amount of content received from the participating airlines or changes in pricing options will also negatively affect our competitive positioning, revenue and financial condition. Although we continue to have participation agreements with these airline providers, in which they have agreed to participate in our Travel Commerce Platform, a material adverse impact on our business may occur if these agreements are terminated and we are unable to reach agreement with such carriers regarding new content agreements or alternative distribution arrangements employing new technologies. There is a risk that travel providers may seek to disrupt the traditional distribution model and try to obtain significant price concessions. For example one major airline group in Europe has actively sought to agree content directly with key travel agencies on an agency-by-agency basis, together with implementing a surcharge that apply to other travel agencies.. In addition, we have implemented, in some countries, an alternative business and financial model, generally referred to as the “opt-in” model, for travel agencies. Under the “opt-in” model, travel agencies are offered the opportunity to pay a fee to us or to agree to a reduction in the financial incentives to be paid to them in order to be assured of having access to all the content provided to us by the participating airlines or to avoid an airline-imposed surcharge on bookings made through our Travel Commerce Platform. There is pressure on us to provide highly competitive terms for such “opt-in” models as many travel agencies have the ability to access content from a variety of sources, including our competitors. The “opt-in” model has been introduced in a number of situations in parallel with content agreements between us and certain airlines to recoup certain fees from travel agencies and to offset some of the discounts provided to airlines in return for guaranteed access to content. The rate of adoption by travel agencies, where “opt-in” has been implemented, has been very high. If airlines require further discounts in connection with guaranteeing access to full content and in response thereto, the “opt-in” model becomes widely adopted, we could receive lower fees from the airlines. These lower fees are likely to be only partially offset by new fees paid by travel agencies and/or reduced incentives or loyalty payments to travel agencies, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if travel agencies choose not to opt in, such travel agencies would not receive access to all the content available through us without making further payment, which could have an adverse effect on the number of segments booked through our Travel Commerce Platform. Larger online and multinational travel agencies have negotiated their own content and financial arrangements with some carriers. These agreements, to which we are not a party, have been structured such that the fees we are able to obtain from airlines are reduced.. The level of fees and commissions we pay to travel agencies is subject to continuous competitive pressure as we renew our agreements with them. If we are required to pay higher rates of commissions, it will adversely affect our margins.. We depend on our relationships with travel providers, and adverse changes in these relationships or our inability to enter into new relationships could negatively affect our access to travel offerings and reduce our revenue.. We rely significantly on our relationships with airlines, hotels, car rental companies and other travel providers to enable us to offer our travel agencies comprehensive access to travel services and products. The majority of our agreements remain in effect each year, with exceptions usually linked to mergers or insolvencies. Adverse changes in any of our relationships with travel providers or the inability to enter into new relationships with travel providers could reduce the volume or variety of content that we are able to offer through our Travel Commerce Platform, and could negatively impact our results of operations and the availability and competitiveness of travel products we offer. Our arrangements with travel providers may not remain in effect on current or similar terms, and the net impact of future pricing options may adversely impact revenue. Our top ten providers by revenue, combined, accounted for approximately 23% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017, and no single provider accounted for more than 10% of revenue. In 2017, we had 59 planned airline contract renewals, and we successfully renewed substantially all such contracts. We currently have 50 and 77 planned airline contract renewals in 2018 and 2019, respectively, including contracts which roll on an annual basis.. Travel providers are increasingly focused on driving online demand to their own websites and may cease to supply us with the same level of access to travel inventory in the future. In addition, some LCCs historically have not distributed content through us or other third-party intermediaries. If the airline industry continues to shift from a full-service carrier model to a low-cost one, this trend may result in more carriers moving ticket distribution systems in-house and a decrease in the demand for our products.. 20. We are in continuous dialogue with our major hotel providers about the nature and extent of their participation in our Travel Commerce Platform. If hotel occupancy rates improve to the point that our hotel providers no longer place the same value on our Travel Commerce Platform, such providers may reduce the amount of inventory they make available through our Travel Commerce Platform or the amount we are able to earn in connection with hotel transactions. A significant reduction on the part of any of our major hotel providers of their participation in our Travel Commerce Platform for a sustained period of time or a provider’s complete withdrawal could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, if we are not successful in maintaining the number of hotels participating in our system, the growth of our business may be restrained.. We are subject to a certain degree of revenue concentration among a portion of our travel agency base.. Our top ten travel agencies accounted for approximately 22% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017, and no single travel agency accounted for more than 10% of revenue. Travel agency contracts representing approximately 27%, 11% and 62% of 2017 revenue are up for renewal in 2018, 2019 and beyond, respectively. Our arrangements with our travel agencies may not remain in effect on current or similar terms.. In the event any substantial travel agency terminates its relationship with us, moves a portion of its business into direct channels so that bookings are made through airlines’ channels or such travel agency’s business is materially impacted for any reason, such as a travel provider withholding content from a travel agency, and, as a result, such travel agency loses, moves or fails to generate, a substantial amount of bookings that would otherwise be processed through our Travel Commerce Platform, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected.. Travel providers are seeking alternative distribution models, including those involving direct access to travelers, which may adversely affect our results of operations.. Travel providers are seeking to decrease their reliance on third-party distributors, including us and our GDS competitors, for distribution of their content. For example, some travel providers have created or expanded efforts to establish commercial relationships with online and traditional travel agencies to book travel with those providers directly, rather than through an intermediary. Many airlines, hotels, car rental companies and cruise operators have also established or improved their own websites and mobile offerings, and may offer incentives such as bonus miles or loyalty points, lower or no transaction or processing fees, priority waitlist clearance or e-ticketing for sales through these channels. In addition, metasearch travel websites facilitate access to websites by aggregating the content of those websites. Due to the combined impact of direct bookings with travel provider websites and other non-GDS distribution channels, the percentage of bookings made without the use of us or our GDS competitors at any stage in the chain between providers and end-customers may continue to increase. In addition, efforts by travel providers to encourage our travel agencies to book directly rather than through our Travel Commerce Platform could adversely affect our results of operations. A recent trend in certain regions outside of the U.S. has seen some travel providers elect not to renew their content agreements and move towards a GDS surcharging model to cover all or some of their distribution costs. This, together with wider adoption and implementation of the IATA New Distribution Capability standard for API connectivity, means that some travel providers are actively promoting to, and engaging with, travel agencies to adopt a direct connection with the quid pro quo of unsurcharged content.. Furthermore, recent trends towards disintermediation in the global travel industry could adversely affect our Travel Commerce Platform. For example, airlines have made some of their offerings unavailable to unrelated distributors, or made them available only in exchange for lower distribution fees. Some LCCs continue to distribute exclusively through direct channels, bypassing us and other third-party distributors completely and, as a whole, have increased their share of bookings in recent years, particularly in short-haul travel. In addition, several travel providers have formed joint ventures or alliances that offer multi-provider travel distribution websites. Finally, some airlines are exploring alternative global distribution methods developed by new entrants to the global distribution marketplace. Such new entrants propose technology that is purported to be efficient, which they claim enables the distribution of airline tickets in a manner that is more cost-effective to the airline provider because no or lower incentive or loyalty payments are paid to travel agencies. If these trends lead to lower participation by airlines and other travel providers in our Travel Commerce Platform, then our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We rely on third-party distributors to market our Travel Commerce Platform services in certain regions, which exposes us to risks associated with the lack of direct management control.. We utilize third-party, independently owned and managed distributors, or NDCs, to market our products and distribute and provide services in certain countries, including India, Indonesia, Kuwait, Lebanon, Pakistan, Syria, Turkey, Kazakhstan and Yemen, as well as many countries in Africa and Asia. We rely on our distributors and the manner in which they operate their business to develop and promote our global business. Our top ten distributors generated approximately 12% of revenue in 2017, and no single distributor accounted for more than 5% of revenue. We pay each of our distributors a commission relative to the number of segments booked by travel agencies with which the distributor has a relationship. The distributors are independent business operators, are not our employees and we do not exercise management control over their day-to-day operations. We provide training and support to the distributors, but the success of their marketing efforts and the quality of the services they provide is beyond our control. If they do not meet our standards for distribution, our image and reputation may suffer materially, and sales in those regions could decline significantly. In addition, any interruption in these third-party services or deterioration in their performance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 21. Consolidation in the travel industry may result in lost bookings and reduced revenue.. Consolidation among travel providers, including airline mergers and alliances, may increase competition from distribution channels related to those travel providers and place more negotiating leverage in the hands of those travel providers to attempt to lower booking fees further and to lower commissions. Examples include the merger of United Airlines and Continental Airlines, the merger of American Airlines and US Airways, the acquisition of AirTran Airways by Southwest Airlines, the merger of British Airways and Iberia and subsequent acquisitions of Aer Lingus and Vueling and the acquisition of Virgin America by Alaska Air Group. In addition, cooperation has increased within the Oneworld, SkyTeam and Star Alliances. Changes in ownership of travel providers may also cause them to direct less business towards us. If we are unable to compete effectively, competitors could divert travel providers away from our travel distribution channels, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Mergers and acquisitions of airlines may also result in a reduction in total flights and overall passenger capacity and higher fares, which may adversely affect the ability of our business to generate revenue.. Consolidation among travel agencies and competition for travel agencies may also adversely affect our results of operations, since we compete to attract and retain travel agencies. For example, in 2015, Expedia acquired Orbitz Worldwide and Travelocity. Reductions in commissions paid by some travel providers, such as airlines, to travel agencies contribute to travel agencies having a greater dependency on traveler-paid service fees and incentive or loyalty payments paid by us and our competitors and may contribute to travel agencies consolidating. Consolidation of travel agencies increases competition for these travel agencies and increases the ability of those travel agencies to negotiate higher incentives or loyalty payments from us. Changes in ownership of travel agencies may also cause them to direct less business towards our Travel Commerce Platform. In addition, a decision by airlines to surcharge the channel represented by travel agencies, for example, by surcharging fares booked through travel agencies or passing on charges to travel agencies, could have an adverse impact on our business, particularly in regions in which our Travel Commerce Platform is a significant source of bookings for an airline choosing to impose such surcharges. To compete effectively, we may need to increase incentives or loyalty payments, pre-pay incentives, discount or waive product or service fees or increase spending on marketing or product development.. Our business is exposed to customer credit risk and fraudulent booking activity, against which we may not be able to protect ourselves fully.. Our business is subject to the risks of non-payment and non-performance by travel providers, which may fail to make payments according to the terms of their agreements with us. For example, a small number of airlines that do not settle payment through IATA billing and settlement provider have, from time to time, not made timely payments for bookings made through our Travel Commerce Platform. We manage our exposure to credit risk through credit analysis and monitoring procedures, and sometimes use credit agreements, prepayments, security deposits and bank guarantees. However, these procedures and policies cannot fully eliminate customer credit risk, and to the extent our policies and procedures prove to be inadequate, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.. In addition, we are exposed to risk and potential liability from travel agency fraudulent booking activity resulting from travel agencies’ use of our Travel Commerce Platform for fraudulent purposes. We contractually disclaim all liability for any such loss, but periodically incur claims from travel providers who allege that we should have more responsibility for any third-party fraud.. Some of our travel agencies, NDC counterparties and travel providers may be highly leveraged, not well capitalized and subject to their own operating, legal and regulatory risks and, even if our credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, we may experience financial losses in our dealings with such parties. A lack of liquidity in the capital markets or the continued weak performance in the economy may cause our customers to increase the time they take to pay or to default on their payment obligations, which could negatively affect our results. In addition, continued weakness in the economy could cause some of our customers to become illiquid, delay payments, or could adversely affect collection on their accounts, which could result in a higher level of bad debt expense.. 22. Economic conditions in the global travel industry could impact our business and results of operations.. As a participant in the global travel industry, our business and operating results are impacted by global economic conditions, including a general reduction in net disposable income as a result of fiscal measures adopted by countries to address high levels of budgetary indebtedness, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In our industry, the past financial crisis and global recession resulted in higher unemployment, a decline in consumer confidence, large-scale business failures and tightened credit markets. As a result, the global travel industry, which historically has grown at a rate in excess of global GDP growth during economic expansions, has experienced cyclical downturns in the past. Future adverse economic developments in areas such as employment levels, business conditions, interest rates, tax rates, fuel and energy costs and other matters could reduce discretionary spending and cause the travel industry to contract. In addition, if there are adverse global economic conditions, consumer spending on leisure travel and business spending on business travel may decrease, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Operational Risks. We rely on information technology to operate our business and maintain our competitiveness, and any failure to adapt to technological developments or industry trends could harm our business.. We depend upon the use of sophisticated information technologies and systems, including technologies and systems utilized for reservation systems, communications, procurement and administrative systems. As our operations grow in both size and scope, we continuously need to improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to offer an increasing number of customers and travel providers enhanced products, services, features and functionality, while maintaining the reliability and integrity of our systems and infrastructure. Our future success also depends on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies in our industry, particularly the increasing use of internet-based products and services, to change our services and infrastructure so they address evolving industry standards, including PCI-DSS, and to improve the performance, features and reliability of our services in response to competitive service and product offerings and the evolving demands of the marketplace. In recent years, we introduced a number of products and services, such as Travelport Smartpoint and the Travelport Merchandising Suite, including Travelport Rich Content and Branding and are developing products and services reliant on state-of-the-art cloud computing capabilities. If there are technological impediments to introducing or maintaining these or other products and services, or if these products and services do not meet the requirements of our customers or applicable industry standards, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.. In addition, cloud computing, the continued growth of alternative platforms and mobile computing devices, the emergence of niche competitors who may be able to optimize products, services or strategies that use cloud computing, as well as other technological changes and developing technologies, such as machine learning and artificial intelligence, have, and will continue to require, new and costly investments. We have acquired expertise in and are deploying machine learning, artificial intelligence and other leading-edge technology to support our customers. However, transitioning to these new technologies may be disruptive to resources and the services we provide, and may increase our reliance on third party service providers. We may not be successful, or may be less successful than our current or new competitors, in developing technology that operates effectively across multiple devices and platforms and that is appealing to our customers, either of which would negatively impact our business and financial performance.. It is possible that, if we are not able to maintain existing systems, obtain new technologies and systems, or replace or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as our competitors or in a cost-effective manner, our business and operations could be materially adversely affected. Also, we may not achieve the benefits anticipated or required from any new technology or system, or be able to devote financial resources to new technologies and systems in the future.. We rely primarily on a single data center location to conduct our business.. Our business, which utilizes a significant amount of our information technology, and the financial business systems rely on computer infrastructure primarily housed in our data center near Atlanta, Georgia, U.S. to conduct its business. In the event the operations of this data center suffer any significant interruptions or the data center becomes significantly inoperable, such event would have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and could result in a loss of customers. Although we have taken steps to strengthen physical and information security, add redundancy to this facility and provide services from other facilities, including a second data center that provides backup data storage and additional processing resources, the primary data center could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, war, acts of terrorism, plane crashes, telecommunications failure, computer malfunctions, unauthorized entry, IT hacking and computer viruses. The steps we have taken and continue to take to prevent system failure and unauthorized transaction activity may not be successful. Our use of backup and disaster recovery systems may not allow us to recover from a system failure fully, or on a timely basis, and our property and business insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur.. 23. eNett depends on critical service providers and may face pricing pressure and changes in its business model, be subject to regulatory requirements and experience conflicts.. eNett, operating in the payment solutions business, is exposed to operational, regulatory and governance risks. eNett is enabled to provide its virtual card solution pursuant to virtual card issuers licensed by Mastercard and, in particular, has a material relationship with Optal, a European-based issuer licensed by Mastercard. An extended service failure by Optal, eNett’s primary issuer, or Mastercard would greatly harm eNett’s current business and growth opportunities. In addition, changes in the business and competitive dynamics in the payments industry, including the ability of travel agencies to negotiate higher rebates and changes in interchange fees over time may impair eNett’s business model and its ability to offer competitive rebates to its customers, which could result in the potential loss of customers and affect eNett’s profitability. In addition, while eNett’s business model currently is not predicated on providing credit to its customers, in order to retain and attract customers, eNett may need to adapt its business model to provide credit to its customers in the future.. Due to its innovative solutions, the regulatory environment for eNett may be modified or adopted in ways that may impact how eNett’s solutions are provided, including an increase in costs to eNett to provide such solutions. Financial services regulators in any of the jurisdictions of the eNett customer base may construe potentially applicable requirements in a manner that results in eNett loss of business, slower growth, financial penalties and operational burdens. In addition, Optal, as the minority shareholder of eNett, may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours, take actions contrary to our objectives, undergo a change of control or be unable or unwilling to fulfill its obligations in support of eNett, which may affect eNett’s and our financial condition or results of operations.. System interruptions, defects and slowdowns may cause us to lose customers or business opportunities or to incur liabilities.. If we are unable to maintain and improve our IT systems and infrastructure, this might result in system interruptions, defects and slowdowns. In the event of system interruptions and/or slow delivery times, prolonged or frequent service outages or insufficient capacity which impedes us from efficiently providing services to our customers, we may lose customers and revenue or incur liabilities. We rely on our employees and internal systems to enable transactions to be processed on our platforms. In addition, our information technologies and systems are vulnerable to damage, interruption or fraudulent activity from various causes, including:. •power losses, computer systems defects or failure, computer viruses, internet and telecommunications or data network failures, losses and corruption of data and similar events;. •operator error, penetration by individuals seeking to disrupt operations, misappropriate information or perpetrate fraudulent activity and other physical or electronic breaches of security;. •the failure of third-party software, systems or services that we rely upon to maintain our own operations;. •lack of cloud computing capabilities; and. •natural disasters, pandemics, wars and acts of terrorism.. We may have inadequate insurance coverage or insurance limits to compensate for losses from a major interruption, and remediation may be costly and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Any extended interruption or degradation in our technologies or systems, or any substantial loss of data, could significantly curtail our ability to conduct our business and generate revenue. We could incur financial liability from fraudulent activity perpetrated on our systems.. Cybersecurity attacks or security breaches could adversely affect our ability to operate, could result in sensitive personal information being misappropriated and may cause us to be held liable or possibly have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business.. The secure transmission of confidential information over the internet is essential in maintaining travel provider and travel agency confidence in our services. Substantial or ongoing data security breaches or cyber attacks, whether instigated internally or externally on our system or other internet-based systems, could significantly harm our business. Our travel providers currently require end customers to pay for their transactions with their credit card online. We rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology to effect secure transmission of confidential end customer information, including credit card numbers. It is possible that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries or other developments could result in a cyber attack or a compromise or breach of the technology that we use to protect customer transaction data.. 24. We incur substantial expense to protect against cyber attacks or security breaches and their consequences. However, our security measures may not prevent cyber attacks or data security breaches. We may be unsuccessful in implementing remediation plans to address potential exposures. A party (whether internal, external, an affiliate or unrelated third party) that is able to circumvent our data security systems or indulge in cyber attacks could also obtain proprietary information or cause significant interruptions in our operations. Cyber attacks or security breaches could also damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Cyber attacks or security breaches could also cause our current and potential travel providers and travel agencies to lose confidence in our data security, which would have a negative effect on the demand for our products and services.. We have been the target of data and cyber security attacks and may experience attacks in the future. Although we have managed to substantially counter these attacks and minimize our exposure, there can be no assurances that we will be able to successfully counter and limit any such attacks in the future.. We provide IT services to travel providers, primarily airlines, and any adverse changes in these relationships could adversely affect our business.. We provide hosting solutions and IT subscription services to airlines and the technology companies that support them. We host the reservations systems for Delta Air Lines, and provide IT subscription services for critical applications in fares, pricing and e-ticketing, directly and indirectly, for approximately 200 airlines and airline ground handlers. Adverse changes in our relationships with our IT and hosting customers or our inability to enter into new relationships with other customers could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our arrangements with our customers may not remain in effect on current or similar terms and this may negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, if any of our key customers enters bankruptcy, liquidates or does not emerge from bankruptcy, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.. We are dependent upon software, equipment and services provided by third parties.. We are dependent upon software, equipment and services provided and/or managed by third parties in the operation of our business. In the event that the performance of such software, equipment or services provided and/or managed by third parties deteriorates or our arrangements with any of these third parties related to the provision and/or management of software, equipment or services are terminated, we may not be able to find alternative services, equipment or software on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or be able to do so without significant cost or disruptions to our business, and our relationships with our customers may be adversely impacted. We have experienced occasional system outages arising from services that were provided by one of our key third-party providers. Our failure to secure agreements with such third parties, or the failure of such third parties to perform under such agreements, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We are subject to additional risks as a result of having global operations.. We have a presence in approximately 180 countries and territories. As a result of having global operations, we are subject to numerous risks. At any given time, one or more of the following principal risks may apply to any or all of the countries in which our services are provided:. •delays in the development, availability and use of the internet as a communication, advertising and commerce medium;. •difficulties in staffing and managing operations due to distance, time zones, language and cultural differences, including issues associated with establishing management systems infrastructure;. •differences and changes in regulatory requirements, including anti-bribery rules, trade sanctions, data privacy requirements, labor laws and anti-competition regulations;. •exposure to local economic and political conditions;. •changes in tax laws and regulations, and interpretations thereof;. •limitations on repatriation of earnings, which may limit our ability to transfer revenue from our non-U.S. operations and result in substantial transaction costs;. •increased risk of piracy and limits on our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights, particularly in the Middle East, Africa and Asia;. •diminished ability to enforce our contractual rights;. •exchange rate fluctuations and cost and risks inherent in hedging such exposures; and. •withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries.. 25. In addition, we have significant operations in Europe that may be adversely affected by the economic and political conditions in the eurozone, which could have an adverse impact on our business.. Our ability to identify, hire and retain senior management and other qualified personnel is critical to our results of operations and future growth.. We depend significantly on the continued services and performance of our senior management, particularly our professionals with experience in the travel industry. Any of these individuals may choose to terminate their employment with us at any time. If unexpected leadership turnover occurs without adequate succession plans, the loss of the services of any of these individuals, or any negative perceptions of our business as a result of those losses, could damage our brand image and our business. The specialized skills we require are difficult and time-consuming to acquire and, as a result, such skills are and are expected to remain in limited supply. It requires a long time to hire and train replacement personnel. An inability to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees or ensure effective succession plans for critical positions could materially hinder our business by, for example, delaying our ability to bring new products and services to market or impairing the success of our operations. Even if we are able to maintain our employee base, the resources needed to attract and retain such employees may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may not effectively integrate or realize anticipated benefits from future acquisitions.. In the future, we may enter into other acquisitions and investments, including NDCs or joint ventures, based on assumptions with respect to operations, profitability and other matters that could subsequently prove to be incorrect. Furthermore, we may fail to successfully integrate any acquired businesses or joint ventures into our operations. If future acquisitions, significant investments or joint ventures do not perform in accordance with our expectations or are not effectively integrated, our business, operations or financial performance could be adversely affected.. Financial and Taxation Risks. We have a substantial level of indebtedness that may have an adverse impact on us.. As of December 31, 2017, our total indebtedness, excluding capital leases and other indebtedness, was $2,124 million under our senior secured credit agreement. If our term loans due in September 2021 or any revolving credit borrowings due September 2022 (subject to a springing maturity) are not repaid or refinanced prior to their maturity dates, we may not have the funds necessary, or otherwise be able, to repay the debt when it becomes due.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $142 million available for borrowing under our revolving credit facility, net of letters of credit that have been issued under the revolving credit facility and that are outstanding on such date. In addition, we may incur obligations that do not constitute indebtedness such as commitments to operating leases and commitments to purchase goods and services from specific suppliers related to information technology as disclosed further in the footnotes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this document. To the extent we incur any of these obligations, the risks associated with our substantial level of indebtedness would increase, which could further limit our financial and operational flexibility.. Our substantial level of indebtedness and obligations could have important consequences for us, including the following:. •requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our capital expenditure and future business opportunities;. •exposing us to the risk of higher interest rates because certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, including the impact of LIBOR interest rates on our dollar denominated floating rate debt;. •restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;. •limiting our ability to obtain additional equity or debt financing for general corporate purposes, acquisitions, investments, capital expenditures or other strategic purposes;. •limiting our ability to adjust to changing business conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our less highly leveraged competitors; and. •making us more vulnerable to general economic downturns and adverse developments in our business.. 26. The above factors could limit our financial and operational flexibility, and as a result could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our senior secured credit agreement contains restrictions that may limit our flexibility in operating our business.. Our senior secured credit agreement contains various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things:. •incur additional indebtedness;. •pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of equity interests or make other share payments;. •make certain investments;. •sell certain assets;. •create liens on certain assets to secure debt;. •consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;. •enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and. •designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries.. In addition, under our senior secured credit agreement, we are required to satisfy and maintain compliance with a first lien net leverage ratio. Our ability to meet this requirement can be affected by events beyond our control and, in the longer term, we may not be able to meet such requirement. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our senior secured credit agreement. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior secured credit agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit agreement to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit under our senior secured credit agreement. If we are unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our senior secured credit agreement could take action or exercise remedies, including proceedings against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our senior secured credit agreement. If the lenders under our senior secured credit agreement accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit agreement, as well as our other indebtedness.. Our pension and post-retirement benefit plans are underfunded and will require future cash contributions, which could be higher than we expect and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity.. We sponsor pension and post-retirement benefit plans in and outside of the U.S. As of December 31, 2017, our U.S. and non-U.S. pension and post-retirement benefit plans were underfunded by an aggregate of $127 million. We are required to make cash contributions to these plans in the future, and those cash contributions could be significant. In 2018, we expect to make cash contributions of approximately $4 million in the aggregate to our U.S. and non-U.S. pension and post-retirement benefit plans, which we believe will be sufficient to meet the minimum funding requirements. However, our future funding obligations for our pension and post-retirement benefit plans depend on the levels of benefits provided for by these plans, the future performance of assets set aside for these plans, the rates of interest used to determine funding levels, actuarial data and experience and any changes in applicable laws and regulations. Accordingly, our future funding requirements for our pension and post-retirement benefit plans could be higher than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity.. In addition, our pension plans hold investments in equity securities and mutual funds. If the market values of these securities decline, our pension expense and funding requirements will increase. Any decrease in interest rates and asset returns, if and to the extent not offset by contributions, could increase our obligations under our pension plans. If the performance of assets held in these pension plans does not meet our expectations, our cash contributions for these plans could be higher than we expect, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity.. 27. Government regulation could impose taxes or other burdens on us, which could increase our costs or decrease demand for our products.. We rely upon generally accepted interpretations of tax laws and regulations in the countries in which we have customers and for which we provide travel inventory. We cannot be certain that these interpretations are accurate or that the responsible taxing authority is in agreement with our views. The imposition of additional taxes could cause us to have to pay taxes that we currently do not pay or collect on behalf of authorities and increase the costs of our products or services, which would increase our costs of operations.. Changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof may result in an increase in our effective tax rate.. We have operations in various countries that have differing tax laws and tax rates. A significant portion of our revenue and income is earned in countries with corporate tax rates lower than the U.S. federal tax rates. Our income tax reporting is subject to audit by domestic and foreign authorities. Our effective tax rate may change from year to year based on changes in the mix of activities and income allocated or earned among various jurisdictions, tax laws in these jurisdictions, tax treaties between countries, our eligibility for benefits under those tax treaties and the estimated values of deferred tax assets and liabilities. Such changes, which, among other reasons, may arise from ongoing inter-governmental and Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”)-led proposals on international corporate taxation, specific changes in the U.K. to the tax deductibility of interest and comprehensive changes to the U.S. tax legislation that were enacted in December 2017 under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “U.S. Tax Reforms”), could result in an increase in the effective tax rate applicable to all or a portion of our income, which would adversely affect our financial performance.. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 31, 2035, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and your investment.. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, as amended, has given us an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to us or any of our operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 31, 2035, except insofar as such tax applies to persons ordinarily resident in Bermuda or to any taxes payable by us in respect of real property owned or leased by us in Bermuda. Given the limited duration of the Bermuda Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 31, 2035.. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar and other currencies may adversely impact our results of operations.. Our results of operations are reported in U.S. dollars. While most of our revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars, a portion of our revenue and costs is denominated in other currencies, such as the British pound, the Euro and the Australian dollar. As a result, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates. The results of our operations and our operating expenses are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of those operations are translated from local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. If the U.S. dollar weakens against the local currency, the translation of these foreign currency-based local operations will result in increased operating expenses. Similarly, our local currency-based operating expenses will decrease if the U.S. dollar strengthens against local currency. Additionally, transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency may result in gains and losses that may adversely impact our results of operations.. The decision of the United Kingdom to withdraw from the European Union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business.. In June 2016, a majority of voters in the U.K. elected to withdraw from the E.U. in a national referendum. In March 2017, the U.K. government formally initiated a withdrawal process, the terms of which are subject to a negotiation period that could last at least two years. The decision has created significant uncertainties and instability in financial and trade markets. As an E.U. member state, the U.K. and U.K.-based businesses have access to strong financial and trade relationships, including the E.U. Single Market. Given the lack of precedent, it is unclear how the withdrawal of the U.K. from the E.U. would affect the U.K.’s access to the E.U. Single Market and other important financial and trade relationships and how it would affect us. The withdrawal could, among other outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the U.K. and the E.U., undermine bilateral cooperation in key policy areas and significantly disrupt trade between the U.K. and the E.U. Under current E.U. rules, following a withdrawal, the U.K. would not be able to negotiate bilateral trade agreements with member countries of the E.U. In addition, the withdrawal of the U.K. from the E.U. could significantly affect the fiscal, monetary and regulatory landscape, including with respect to data protection and privacy, within the U.K. and could have a material impact on its economy and the future growth of its various industries. Although it is not possible to predict fully the effects of the withdrawal of the U.K. from the E.U., it could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 28. Material modifications of U.S. laws and regulations and existing trade agreements could adversely affect global economic conditions, financial markets and our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Significant changes in U.S. laws and regulations and existing international trade agreements could affect a wide variety of industries and businesses, including our business. Such changes could cause a decline in travel volume and have an adverse impact on the travel industry and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Legal and Regulatory Risks. We may not be able to protect our technology and intellectual property effectively, which would allow competitors to duplicate our products and services and could make it more difficult for us to compete with them.. Our success and ability to compete depend, in part, upon our technology and other intellectual property, including our brands. Among our significant assets are our software and other proprietary information and intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and patent laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect these assets. Our software and related documentation are protected principally under trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection. Unauthorized use and misuse of our technology and other intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, and there can be no assurance that our legal remedies would adequately compensate us for the damage caused by unauthorized use.. Intellectual property challenges have been increasingly brought against members of the travel industry. We have in the past, and may in the future, need to take legal action to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our intellectual property or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any future legal action might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and the attention of our management.. Third parties may claim that we have infringed their intellectual property rights, which could expose us to substantial damages and restrict our operations.. We have faced and in the future could face claims that we have infringed the patents, copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights of others. In addition, we may be required to indemnify travel providers for claims made against them. Any claims against us or such providers could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or pay damages. Such claims could also delay or prohibit the use of existing, or the release of new, products, services or processes, and the development of new intellectual property. We could be required to obtain licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of the infringement claims, and resolution of these matters may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Intellectual property claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and such claims may result in a loss of intellectual property protections that relate to certain parts of our business.. Our processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data could give rise to liabilities or business loss as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements, evolving security standards, differing views of personal privacy rights or security breaches.. In the processing of our travel transactions, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable information. This information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, typically intended to protect the privacy and security of personal information. It is also subject to evolving security standards for credit card and personal information that is collected, processed and transmitted.. We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business. For example, in 2015, the Court of Justice of the E.U. invalidated the European Commission’s finding that the Safe Harbor program, in which we previously participated, provided adequate data protection according to E.U. standards. Travel businesses have also been subjected to investigations, lawsuits and adverse publicity due to allegedly improper disclosure of passenger information. As privacy and data protection have become more sensitive and politicized issues, we may also become exposed to potential liabilities in relation to our handling, use and disclosure of travel related data, as it pertains to individuals, as a result of differing views on the privacy of such data. Our business could be affected by public concerns in some parts of the world about U.S.-based data processing following revelations of National Security Agency surveillance activities, even though these revelations and activities did not involve Travelport. Our business could receive increased scrutiny upon the effectiveness of the GDPR in the E.U. and its heightened privacy requirements. In addition, we could fail to maintain or adapt to industry standards applicable to our operations, including PCI-DSS. These and other privacy concerns, including security breaches, could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 29. Our business is regulated, and any failure to comply with such regulations or any changes in such regulations could adversely affect us.. We operate in a regulated industry. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in or the enactment of new laws, rules and/or regulations applicable to us, which could decrease demand for products and services, increase costs or subject us to additional liabilities. Moreover, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals and to implement regulations. Accordingly, such regulatory authorities could prevent or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us if our practices were found not to comply with the then current regulatory or licensing requirements or any interpretation of such requirements by the regulatory authority. Our failure to comply with any of these requirements or interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. We store a large volume of personally identifiable information which is subject to legislation and regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world, including in the U.S. and in Europe.. In Europe, computerized reservation systems, or CRS, regulations or interpretations of them may increase our cost of doing business or lower our revenue, limit our ability to sell marketing data, impact relationships with travel agencies, airlines, rail companies, or others, impair the enforceability of existing agreements with travel agencies and other users of our system, prohibit or limit us from offering services or products, or limit our ability to establish or change fees.. The CRS regulations require a GDS to display a rail or rail/air alternative to air travel on the first screen of their principal displays in certain circumstances. We currently have few rail participants in our GDS. We can display direct point to point rail services in our GDS principal displays, for those rail operators that participate in our GDS. Given the lack of standardization in the rail industry, displaying rail connections in a similar way to airline connections is extremely complex, particularly in relation to journey planning, fare quotation, ticketing and booking systems. We are working towards a solution that will include functionality to search, shop and book connected rail alternatives at such time as the rail industry in Europe agrees on and provides a standard framework to do so.. Continued regulation of GDSs in the E.U. and elsewhere could also create the operational challenge of supporting different products, services and business practices to conform to the different regulatory regimes.. Enhanced regulation by the E.U. through its newly updated Payment Services Directive may affect eNett and the payment-related services conducted through our Travel Commerce Platform.. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations may subject us to fines, penalties and potential criminal violations. Any changes to these laws or regulations or any new laws or regulations may make it more difficult for us to operate our business and may have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not currently maintain a central database of regulatory requirements affecting our worldwide operations and, as a result, the risk of non-compliance with the laws and regulations described above is heightened.. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States Holders of our common shares.. Based on the current and anticipated value of our assets and the composition of our income and assets, we do not expect to be treated as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for United States federal income tax purposes for our current taxable year ended December 31, 2017. However, the application of the PFIC rules is subject to uncertainty in several respects, and we cannot assure you that the United States Internal Revenue Service will not take a contrary position. A non-United States corporation will be a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of its gross income for such year is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly value of the assets) during such year is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. A separate determination must be made after the close of each taxable year as to whether we were a PFIC for that year. Because the value of our assets for purposes of the PFIC test generally will be determined by reference to the market price of our common shares, a significant decrease in the market price of our common shares may cause us to become a PFIC. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a United States Holder holds a common share, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to such United States Holder.. 30. From time to time, we may be involved in legal proceedings and may experience unfavorable outcomes.. We are, and in the future may be, subject to material legal proceedings in the course of our business, including, but not limited to, actions relating to contract disputes, business practices, intellectual property and other commercial and tax matters. Such legal proceedings may involve claims for substantial amounts of money or for other relief or might necessitate changes to our business or operations, and the defense of such actions may be both time consuming and expensive. Further, if any such proceedings were to result in an unfavorable outcome, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Common Shares. The market price and trading volume of our common shares may be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our shareholders.. The market price of our common shares may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. During 2017, the price of our common shares, as reported by NYSE, ranged from a low of $11.38 on April 5, 2017 to a high of $16.17 on October 20, 2017. In addition, the trading volume in our common shares may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our common shares declines significantly, shareholders may be unable to sell their common shares at or above the purchase price, if at all. The market price of our common shares may fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of our common shares or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common shares include: variations in our quarterly operating results; failure to meet our earnings estimates; publication of research reports about us or the travel industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our common shares; additions or departures of our executive officers and other key management personnel; adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future; actions by shareholders; changes in market valuations of similar companies; speculation in the press or investment community; changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations thereof affecting our business or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; adverse publicity about the travel industry generally or individual scandals, specifically, and general market and economic conditions.. If we do not pay additional cash dividends in the foreseeable future, the price of our common shares may be depressed.. The declaration and payment of all future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our Board and will depend upon our financial condition, earnings, contractual conditions, restrictions imposed by our senior secured credit agreement, any future indebtedness or preferred securities or applicable laws and other factors that our Board may deem relevant. In addition, pursuant to Bermuda law and our bye-laws, no dividends may be declared or paid if there are reasonable grounds for believing that: (i) we are, or would after the payment be, unable to pay our liabilities as they become due or (ii) that the realizable value of our assets would thereby be less than our liabilities. As a result, shareholders may not receive any return on an investment in our common shares unless such common shares are sold for a price greater than that for which shareholders paid.. Anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws may delay, discourage or prevent a change in control.. Our bye-laws contain provisions that may delay, discourage or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareholder may consider favorable. Such provisions include, but are not limited to, shareholder advance notice and the issuance of preference shares. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their common shares.. We are a Bermuda company, and it may be difficult for shareholders to enforce judgments against us or certain of our directors or officers.. We are a Bermuda limited liability exempted company. We have been advised by our Bermuda counsel that there is no treaty in force between the United States and Bermuda providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. As a result, whether a U.S. judgment would be enforceable in Bermuda depends on whether the U.S. court that entered the judgment is recognized by a Bermuda court as having jurisdiction over it, as determined by reference to Bermuda conflict of law rules. The courts of Bermuda would recognize as a valid judgment, a final and conclusive judgment in personam obtained in a U.S. court pursuant to which a sum of money is payable (other than a sum of money payable in respect of multiple damages, taxes or other charges of a like nature or in respect of a fine or other penalty). The courts of Bermuda would recognize such a U.S. judgment as long as (1) the U.S. court had proper jurisdiction over the parties subject to the judgment, (2) the U.S. court did not contravene the rules of natural justice of Bermuda, (3) the U.S. judgment was not obtained by fraud, (4) the enforcement of the U.S. judgment would not be contrary to the public policy of Bermuda, (5) no new admissible evidence relevant to the action is submitted prior to the rendering of the judgment by the courts of Bermuda and (6) there is due compliance with the correct procedures under the laws of Bermuda.. 31. In addition to and irrespective of jurisdictional issues, Bermuda courts will not enforce a provision of the United States federal securities law that is either penal in nature or contrary to public policy. It is the advice of our Bermuda counsel that an action brought pursuant to a public or penal law, the purpose of which is the enforcement of a sanction, power or right at the instance of the state in its sovereign capacity, is unlikely to be entertained by Bermuda courts. Specified remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including specified remedies under United States federal securities laws, would not be available under Bermuda law or enforceable in a Bermuda court, as they are likely to be contrary to Bermuda public policy. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda in the first instance for a violation of United States federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial application under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda.. Our bye-laws require that derivative actions brought in our name, actions against directors, officers and employees for breach of fiduciary duty and other similar actions may be brought only in Bermuda as the exclusive forum for such actions, which could limit our shareholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us.. Our bye-laws require, to the fullest extent permitted by law, that derivative actions brought in the name of the Company, actions against directors, officers and employees for breach of fiduciary duty and other similar actions may be brought only in Bermuda, and if brought outside of Bermuda, the shareholder bringing the suit will be deemed to have consented to service of process on such shareholder’s counsel. The choice of forum provision in our bye-laws may limit our shareholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us and have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against our directors and officers. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of bye-laws inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Persons who own our common shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation.. The Companies Act 1981, as amended, of Bermuda, which applies to us, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. As a result, persons who own our common shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation.. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, shareholders may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the trading price of our common shares may be negatively affected.. We are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“SOX”), which requires us to maintain internal controls over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. We have consumed and will continue to consume management resources and incur expenses for SOX compliance on an ongoing basis. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, or if we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, and the trading price of our common shares could be negatively affected, and we could become subject to investigations by the NYSE, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources.. 32"
