[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces many risks. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the market prices of our equity or debt securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should carefully consider the following risks, the risks referred to elsewhere in this Annual Report and the information contained under the heading \"Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements\" before deciding whether to invest in our securities.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our operating margins are narrow.. Our operating margins are low. Fuel sales comprise the majority of our revenues and generate low gross margin percentages. A small percentage decline in our future revenues or increase in our future costs, especially revenues and costs and expenses related to fuel, may cause our profits to decline or us to incur losses. Fuel prices and sourcing have historically been volatile, which may increase the risk of declines in revenues or increases in costs. In the years during the U.S. economic recession and periods of historically high and volatile fuel prices, we realized large operating losses. Shifts in customer demand for our products and services, including as a result of increased fuel conservation practices, or heightened competition could cause our operating margins to narrow further and we may incur losses. Our operating margins will also be negatively impacted by any increase in transaction or other fees we are required to pay to fuel card providers that we cannot pass along to our customers.. Increasing fuel efficiency of motor vehicle engines and use of other fuel conservation practices and alternative fuels may adversely impact our business.. Truck and other vehicle manufacturers and our trucking and motorist customers continue to be focused on technological innovations to improve motor vehicle fuel efficiency and conserve fuel. The development of new technologies, such as truck platooning (the electronic linking of trucks with a lead vehicle), heat and kinetic energy recovery technologies, and substantially lighter \"super trucks,\" and higher efficiency motor fuels could result in significant increases in fuel efficiency. In addition, advances in alternative fuel technologies may lead to their greater adoption by the trucking industry and other motorists. Government regulation may encourage or require the improved fuel efficiency of motor vehicle engines, other fuel conservation practices and alternative fuels. The largest part of our business consists of selling motor fuel. If our trucking or other customers purchase less motor fuel because their trucks or other vehicles operate more fuel efficiently or use alternative fuels, our financial results will decline and we may incur losses unless we are able to sufficiently offset the declines by selling substitute or other products or services, gaining market share, increasing our gross margins per gallon of fuel sold or reducing our operating costs. It is unclear whether we will be able to operate our travel centers profitably if the amount of motor fuels used by the U.S. trucking industry or other motorists declines.. 20. Table of Contents. Our financial results are affected by U.S. trucking and restaurant industry economic conditions.. The trucking industry is the primary customer for our goods and services. Demand for trucking services in the United States generally reflects the amount of commercial activity in the U.S. economy. When the U.S. economy declines, demand for goods moved by trucks declines, and in turn demand for our products and services typically declines, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our restaurant business is important to our financial results. Our travel centers offer full service restaurants and QSRs, many of our convenience stores offer QSRs and our business includes standalone restaurants. The restaurant industry is often affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions, discretionary spending priorities, demographic trends, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing businesses. Downturns in the restaurant industry caused by any of the foregoing may materially negatively affect our business and results of operations.. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive.. We believe that large trucking fleets and long haul trucking fleets tend to purchase the large majority of their fuel at travel centers and truck stops that are located at or near interstate highway exits from us or our largest competitors. Based on the number of locations, we, Pilot and Love's are the largest companies in the travel center industry. These competitors may have greater financial and other resources than we do, which may facilitate their ability to compete more effectively. Increased competition between the major competitors in the travel center and truck stop business could result in a reduction of our gross margins or an increase in our expenses or capital improvement costs, which could negatively affect our profitability and our liquidity.. Further, the truck repair and maintenance service industry is highly competitive. Such services can be obtained by trucking companies and truck drivers from a variety of sources, including national and regional truck repair and maintenance facilities, full service travel centers, truck stop chains, fleet maintenance terminals, independent garages, truck and commercial tire dealerships, truck quick lube facilities and other parts and service centers. In addition, some trucking companies operate their own terminals to provide repair and maintenance services to their own trucking fleets and drivers. Pilot and Love's, our two largest competitors, have increased their respective numbers of truck repair and maintenance facilities over the past several years and should this trend continue, our competitive position could be weakened. Some of our competitors in the truck repair and maintenance service business may have more resources or lower costs than we do and vertically integrated businesses which may provide them competitive advantages.. The convenience store industry in the United States and in the geographic areas in which we operate is also highly competitive and fragmented with ease of entry and constant change in the number and types of retailers offering the products and services similar to those we provide. We compete with other convenience store chains, independent convenience stores, supermarkets, drugstores, discount clubs, motor fuel service stations, mass merchants, fast food operations and other similar retail outlets. Several non-convenience store retailers, such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants, compete directly with convenience stores, particularly in the sale of motor fuel, and their market share is expected to continue to grow. Increased competition or new entrants to the industry could result in reduction of our gross margins. Based on the number of our locations, we are not one of the largest companies in the convenience store industry. In addition, large retailers such as Amazon.com, Inc. and Walmart Inc. have announced plans to enter the convenience store market and have begun doing so.. We also face competition from restaurants in the quick service and casual dining segments of the restaurant industry. These segments are highly competitive and fragmented. Our competition includes a variety of locally owned restaurants and national and regional chains offering dine-in, carry-out, delivery and catering services. Many of our competitors have existed longer and have a more established market presence with substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do. Among our competitors are a number of multi-unit, multi-market, fast casual restaurant concepts, some of which are expanding nationally. These competitors may have, among other things, lower operating costs, better locations, facilities or management, more effective marketing and more efficient operations.. Any inability to successfully compete effectively will reduce customer traffic and sales at our locations and may prevent us from sustaining or increasing our revenue or improving our profitability.. 21. Table of Contents. Disruptive technologies in the energy or transportation industries may materially harm our business.. The major product we sell is fuel. Another significant part of our business is the sale of nonfuel products and services to drivers who visit our locations, often in connection with purchasing fuel. Various technologies are being developed in the energy and transportation industries that, if widely adopted, may materially harm our business. For example, electric motor vehicle engines that do not require diesel fuel and hybrid electric-diesel/gasoline engines may require substantially less diesel/gasoline fuel per mile driven. Further, driverless motor vehicle technologies may result in fewer individual drivers on the U.S. interstate highways and reduce the customer traffic and sales of fuel and nonfuel products at our locations. Such reductions may materially and adversely affect our sales and our business.. Privatization of toll roads or of rest areas may negatively affect our business.. Some states have privatized their toll roads that are part of the interstate highway system. We believe it is likely that tolls will increase on privatized highways. In addition, some states may increase tolls for their own account. If tolls are introduced or increased on highways in the proximity of our locations, our business at those travel centers may decline because truck drivers and motorists may seek alternative routes. Similarly, some states have privatized or are considering privatizing their publicly owned highway rest areas. If publicly owned rest areas along highways are privatized and converted to travel centers in the proximity of some of our locations, our business at those locations may decline and we may experience losses.. On February 12, 2018, the Trump Administration, or the Administration, announced its proposal for a $1.5 trillion infrastructure plan that contains several policy provisions detrimental to the truck stop industry and our business. Specifically, the Administration's proposal intends to shift the responsibility for financing infrastructure projects from the federal government to the states and the private sector; such shifting is expected to greatly increase tolling of U.S. highways. The Administration also proposed rest area commercialization. While it is uncertain the Administration's proposal will find sufficient Congressional support to be enacted, if enacted as proposed the Administration's plans are likely to adversely affect our business, possibly significantly.. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness and rent obligations, which could adversely affect our financial condition.. Our indebtedness and rent obligations are substantial. The terms of our leases with HPT require us to pay all of our operating costs and generally fixed amounts of rent. During periods of business decline, our revenues and gross margins may decrease but our minimum rents due to HPT and the interest payable on our indebtedness do not decline proportionately or at all. A decline in our revenues or an increase in our expenses may make it difficult or impossible for us to make payments of interest and principal on our debt or meet our rent obligations and could limit our ability to obtain financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, refinancing, lease obligations or other purposes. Our substantial indebtedness and rent obligations may also increase our vulnerability to adverse economic, market and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business operations or to our industry overall, and place us at a disadvantage in relation to competitors that have lower relative debt levels. If we default under our HPT leases, we may be unable to continue our business. Any or all of the above events and factors could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Fuel price increases and fuel price volatility could negatively affect our business.. Increasing fuel prices and fuel price volatility have several adverse impacts upon our business. First, high fuel prices result in higher truck shipping costs. This causes shippers to consider alternative means for transporting freight, which reduces trucking business and, in turn, reduces our business. Second, high fuel prices cause our trucking customers to seek cost savings throughout their businesses. This has resulted in the implementation by many of our customers of measures to conserve fuel, such as purchasing trucks that have more fuel efficient engines, employ alternative fuel or other technologies, lowering maximum driving speeds and employing other practices to conserve fuel, such as truck platooning and reduced truck engine idling, which measures reduce total fuel consumption and in turn reduce our fuel sales. Third, higher fuel prices may result in less disposable income for our customers to purchase our nonfuel goods and services. Fourth, higher and more volatile fuel commodity prices increase the working capital needed to maintain our fuel inventory and receivables, and this increases our costs of doing business. Further, increases in fuel prices may place us at a cost disadvantage to our competitors that may have larger fuel inventory or forward contracts executed during periods of lower fuel prices. If fuel commodity prices or fuel price volatility increase, our financial results may not improve and may worsen.. 22. Table of Contents. There is limited competition among third party fuel card companies and continued litigation with fuel card provider FleetCor could adversely affect our business.. Most of our trucking customers transact business with us by use of fuel cards, which are issued by third party fuel card companies. The fuel card industry has only two significant participants, FleetCor and WEX. According to a published analyst report, FleetCor and WEX collectively account for more than 80% of the fuel card provider market. We believe almost all trucking companies use only a single fuel card provider and have become increasingly dependent upon the data, reports and other services provided by their respective fuel card provider to manage their fleets and simplify their data processing. Fuel card providers have direct negotiated contractual relationships with their trucking company customers. We cannot easily substitute an alternative fuel card for trucking companies to use to acquire fuel at our locations. Any effort to convince trucking companies to use an alternative card at our locations requires significant time, expense and coordination with the provider of that alternative card, and may not be successful.. Additionally, if fuel card issuers raise the fees we are required to pay when their respective contracts are renewed, we may not be able to recover the increased expense through higher prices to customers, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. As described under the heading \"Legal Proceedings\" in Note 13 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 15 of this Annual Report, we and FleetCor's subsidiary Comdata are parties to a merchant agreement, or the Merchant Agreement, which Comdata purported to terminate in November 2016. From February 1, 2017, until mid-September 2017, Comdata unilaterally increased the fees it withheld from the transaction settlement payments due to us under such agreement. On September 11, 2017, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, or the Court, issued an opinion stating that we are entitled to, among other things, an order requiring Comdata to specifically perform under the Merchant Agreement, and awarded damages to us and against Comdata for, among other things, the difference between the higher transaction fees we had paid to Comdata since February 1, 2017, and what we should have paid during this period under the fee schedule in the Merchant Agreement. After a final order is entered, Comdata may appeal the Court's judgment and the Court's decision may be reversed or amended upon appeal. If we do not prevail in any appeal brought by FleetCor and Comdata and, upon appeal, it is determined that Comdata validly terminated our agreement, we may not be able to obtain a new agreement with FleetCor and Comdata, and we may lose a material amount of future business from our customers who use FleetCor or Comdata issued payment cards, resulting in material harm to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any continuation of this litigation will be distracting to our management and expensive.. Climate change and other environmental legislation and regulation and market reaction thereto may decrease demand for our major product, diesel fuel, and require us to make significant changes to our business and to make capital or other expenditures, which may adversely affect our business.. Climate change and other environmental legislation and regulation, including those addressing greenhouse gas emissions, and market reaction to any such legislation or regulation or to climate change concerns, may decrease the demand for our major product, diesel fuel, and may require us to make significant capital or other expenditures. Federal and state governmental requirements addressing emissions from trucks and other motor vehicles, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's, or the EPA's, gasoline and diesel sulfur control requirements that limit the concentration of sulfur in motor fuel, could negatively impact our business. Further, legislative and regulatory initiatives requiring increased truck fuel efficiency have accelerated in the United States and these mandates have and may continue to result in decreased demand for diesel fuel, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in August 2016 the EPA and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration established final regulations that will phase in more stringent greenhouse gas emission and fuel efficiency standards for medium and heavy duty trucks beginning in model year 2021 (model year 2018 for certain trailers) through model year 2027, and these regulations are estimated to reduce fuel usage between 9% and 25% (depending on vehicle category) by model year 2027. Regulations that limit carbon emissions may also cause our costs at our locations to increase, make some of our locations obsolete or require us to make material investments in our properties. Increased costs incurred by our suppliers as a result of climate change or other environmental legislation or regulation may be passed on to us in the prices we pay for our fuel supplies, but we may not be able to pass on those increased costs to our customers. Increased fuel costs resulting from these reasons would likely have similar effects on our business, operations and liquidity as discussed elsewhere regarding high fuel costs, including decreased demand for our fuel at our locations, increased working capital needs and decreased fuel gross margins. Moreover, as described elsewhere in this Annual Report, technological changes or changes in customer transportation or fueling preferences, including as a result of or in response to climate change or other environmental legislation or regulation or the market reaction thereto, may require us to make significant changes to our business and to make capital or other expenditures to adopt those technologies or to address those changed preferences and may decrease the demand for products and services sold at our locations.. 23. Table of Contents. An interruption in our fuel supplies would materially adversely affect our business.. To mitigate the risks arising from fuel price volatility, we generally maintain limited fuel inventory. Accordingly, an interruption in our fuel supplies would materially adversely affect our business. Interruptions in fuel supplies may be caused by local conditions, such as a malfunction in a particular pipeline or terminal, by weather related events, such as hurricanes in the areas where petroleum or natural gas is extracted or refined, or by national or international conditions, such as government rationing, acts of terrorism, wars and the like. Further, our fuel suppliers may fail to provide us with fuel due to these or other reasons. Any limitation in available fuel supplies or on the fuel we can offer for sale may cause our profits to decline or us to experience losses.. Our growth strategies and our locations require regular and substantial capital investment. We may be unable to access the capital necessary to invest in our locations or fund acquisitions.. Our growth strategies and business depend upon our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable costs to invest in our locations and to fund acquisitions and investments that we believe are important to expand our business and maintain our competitiveness. All of our travel centers and many of our convenience stores are open for business 24 hours per day, 365 days per year. Due to the nature and intensity of the uses of our locations, they require regular and substantial expenditures for maintenance and capital investments to remain functional and attractive to customers. Although we may request that HPT purchase future renovations, improvements and equipment at the properties that we lease from HPT, HPT is not obligated to purchase any amounts and such purchases only relate to improvements to facilities leased from HPT by us and not to facilities that we have acquired and own or to general business improvements, such as improvements to our information technology networks and systems, or IT systems.. We may be unable to raise reasonably priced capital because of reasons related to our business, market perceptions of our prospects, the terms or amount of our outstanding indebtedness, the terms or amount of our rent obligations or for reasons beyond our control, such as market conditions. Moreover, there is potential for volatility in the availability of business capital on a global basis and in debt and equity markets generally. If we are unable to raise reasonably priced capital, our businesses and profits may decline and our growth strategies may fail.. Our storage and dispensing of petroleum products create the potential for environmental damages, and compliance with environmental laws is often expensive.. Our business is subject to laws relating to the protection of the environment. The travel centers and convenience stores we operate include fueling areas, truck repair and maintenance facilities and tanks for the storage and dispensing of petroleum products, waste and other hazardous substances, all of which create the potential for environmental damage. Environmental laws expose us to the possibility that we may become liable to reimburse governments or others for damages and costs they incur in connection with environmental hazards or liable for fines and penalties for failure to comply with environmental laws. We cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations may be enacted or how existing laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our products or activities in the future; more stringent laws, more vigorous enforcement policies or stricter interpretation of existing laws in the future could cause us to expend significant amounts or experience losses.. Under the leases between us and HPT, we generally have agreed to indemnify HPT from environmental liabilities it may incur arising at any of the properties we lease from HPT. Although we maintain insurance policies which cover our environmental liabilities, that coverage may not adequately cover liabilities we may incur. To the extent we incur material amounts for environmental matters for which we do not receive insurance or other third party reimbursement or for which we have not recognized a liability in prior years, our operating results may be materially adversely affected. In addition, to the extent we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, or we become subject to costs and requirements not similarly experienced by our competitors, our competitive position may be harmed. Also, to the extent we are or become obligated to fund any such liabilities, such funding obligation could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial position.. 24. Table of Contents. We rely upon trade creditors for a significant amount of our working capital and the availability of alternative sources of financing may be limited.. Our fuel purchases are our largest operating cost. Historically, we have paid for our fuel purchases after delivery. In the past, as our fuel costs increased with the increase in commodity market prices, some of our fuel suppliers were unwilling to adjust the amounts of our available trade credit to accommodate the increased costs of the fuel volumes that we purchased. Also, our historical financial results and general U.S. economic conditions have caused some fuel suppliers to request letters of credit or other forms of security for our purchases. We cannot predict how high or low fuel prices may be in the future, or to what extent our trade creditors will be willing to adjust the amounts of our available trade credit to accommodate increased fuel costs. Fuel commodity prices significantly impact our working capital requirements, and the unavailability of sufficient amounts of trade credit or alternative sources of financing to meet our working capital requirements could materially adversely affect our business.. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of information technology could harm our business.. We rely on IT systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, including financial records and personally identifiable information such as employee and payroll data and workforce scheduling information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including our supply chain, retail sales, credit card payments and authorizations, financial transactions, banking and numerous other processes and transactions. We purchase some of the IT systems we use from vendors on whom our IT systems materially depend. We rely on commercially available and proprietary IT systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential customer information, such as payment card and credit information. In addition, the IT systems we use for transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, may put payment card data at risk; and some of these IT systems are determined and controlled by the payment card suppliers and not by us. Although we take various actions to protect and maintain the security of the IT systems we use and the data maintained in them, it is possible that our security measures will not prevent the improper functioning of or damage to the IT systems we use, or the improper access to such IT systems or disclosure of personally identifiable or confidential information, such as in the event of a cyber attack. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Any compromise or breach of our IT systems could cause material interruptions in our operations, damage our reputation, require significant expenditures to determine the severity and scope of the breach, subject us to material liability claims, material claims of banks and credit card companies or regulatory penalties, reduce our customers' willingness to conduct business with us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, if we have not adopted technologies to support chip and signature credit and charge cards by the deadline set by the credit card companies, those companies may not pay us for fraudulent transactions occurring at our locations with those companies' cards. Further, the failure of the IT systems we use to operate effectively, or problems we may experience with maintaining the IT systems we currently use or transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, could significantly harm our business and operations and cause us to incur significant costs to remediate such problems.. Many of our labor costs cannot be easily reduced without adversely affecting our business.. To maintain and manage our operations requires certain minimum staffing levels to operate our travel centers and certain convenience stores 24 hours per day, 365 days per year, and we attempt to manage our staffing to avoid excess, unused capacity. As a result, it may be difficult for us to affect future reductions in our staff without adversely affecting our business prospects. Further, passage of federal and state legislation that results in increases to our labor costs, such as minimum wage increases and health insurance requirements, could result in higher labor costs than we currently anticipate. Certain aspects of our business require higher skilled personnel, such as truck service technicians. Hiring, training and maintaining higher skilled personnel can be costly, particularly if turnover is high. Further, as we grow our business, particularly the aspects of our business that require higher skilled personnel, we may experience increased difficulty with staffing those positions with qualified personnel and may incur greater costs to do so. Also, certain opportunities for sales may be lost if staffing levels are reduced too much or if we are unable to maintain a sufficient number of higher skilled employees. In addition, costs for health care and other benefits, due to regulation, market factors or otherwise, may further increase our labor costs.. 25. Table of Contents. If the company is unable to attract, motivate and retain experienced and knowledgeable personnel in key positions, its future results could be adversely impacted.. The success of our business is dependent upon our ability to employ and train individuals with the requisite knowledge, skills and experience to execute our business model and achieve our business objectives. The failure of the company to attract, motivate and retain key personnel or implement an appropriate succession plan, including in connection with the retirement of our former President and Chief Executive Officer, Thomas M. O'Brien, could adversely impact our ability to successfully carry out our business strategy and retain other key personnel.. Unfavorable publicity could negatively affect our results of operations as well as our future business.. We operate our travel centers, convenience stores and standalone restaurants under a small number of brand names. We sell gasoline under brands we do not own at most of our locations and many of our locations have QSRs operating under brands we do not own. In addition, we resell numerous other products we obtain from third parties. If we or the companies or brands associated with our products and offerings become associated with negative publicity, including as a result of customer or employee complaints, our customers may avoid purchasing our products and offerings at our locations because of our association with the particular company or brand. In recent years there has been an increase in the use of social media, which allows individuals access to a broad audience. The availability of information on social media is virtually immediate in its impact. The use of social media by our customers, employees or other individuals to make negative statements about our products, offerings, service, brands or other matters associated with us could quickly damage our reputation and negatively impact our revenues, and we may not be able to quickly and effectively address or counter the negative publicity. As noted elsewhere in this Annual Report, the control we may exercise over our franchisees is limited. Negative publicity or reputational damage relating to any of our franchisees may be imputed to our entire company and business. If we were to experience these or other instances of negative publicity or reputational damage, our sales and results of operations may be harmed.. Changes in U.S. trade policies could significantly reduce the volume of imported goods into the United States, which may materially reduce truck freight volume in the United States and our sales.. The Trump administration and members of the U.S. Congress have made public statements indicating possible significant changes in U.S. trade policy and have taken certain actions that may impact U.S. trade, including imposing tariffs on certain goods imported into the United States. Any changes in U.S. trade policy could trigger retaliatory actions by affected countries, resulting in \"trade wars,\" in increased costs for goods imported into the United States, which may reduce customer demand for these products if the parties having to pay those tariffs increase their prices, or in trading partners limiting their trade with the United States. If these consequences are realized, the volume of economic activity in the United States, including trucking freight volume, may be materially reduced. Such a reduction may materially and adversely affect our sales and our business. Further, the realization of these matters may increase our cost of goods and, if those costs cannot be passed on to our customers, our business and profits may be materially and adversely affected.. The trucking industry may fail to satisfy market demands for transporting goods or market participants may choose other means to transport goods.. The trucking industry has been experiencing a shortage of qualified truck drivers and trucks. Further, increased regulations on the activities of truck drivers and trucking companies, including increased monitoring and enforcement of the number of hours truck drivers may operate a truck each day, and other matters have limited the ability of trucking companies to satisfy market demands for transporting goods. In addition, other means of transporting goods besides by truck are available, and new means of transportation may be under development. For example, there have been general news reports of other means of transportation being increasingly explored, such as light rail, airplanes and drones. If the trucking industry is unable to satisfy market demands for transporting goods or if the use of other means of transporting goods increases, the trucking industry may experience reduced business, which would negatively affect our business, results of operations and liquidity.. 26. Table of Contents. Food safety and foodborne illness concerns could have an adverse effect on our business.. We cannot guarantee that our controls and training will be fully effective in preventing all food safety issues at our QSRs, full service restaurants or our standalone restaurants, including any occurrences of foodborne illnesses. Some foodborne illness incidents could be caused by third-party vendors and transporters outside of our control. New illnesses resistant to our current precautions may develop in the future, or diseases with long incubation periods could arise, that could give rise to claims or allegations. One or more instances of foodborne illness in any of our quick service or standalone restaurants or related to food products we offer could negatively affect our sales and results of operations if it involves serious illness or is highly publicized. This risk exists even if it were later determined that the illness was wrongly attributed to us or one of our standalone restaurants or convenience store or travel center locations. A number of restaurant chains have experienced incidents related to foodborne illnesses that have had a material adverse effect on their operations. The occurrence of a similar incident at one or more of our locations, or negative publicity or public speculation about an incident, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Territorial restrictions placed on us by our leases with HPT and our franchise agreements with our franchisees could impair our ability to grow our business.. Under our leases with HPT, without the consent of HPT, we generally cannot own, franchise, finance, operate, lease or manage any travel center or similar property within 75 miles in either direction along the primary interstate on which a travel center owned by HPT is located. Additionally, under our leases with HPT, we have granted HPT a right of first refusal on the properties that are the subject of such leases. Under the terms of our franchise agreements for TA travel centers, generally we have agreed not to operate, or allow another person to operate, a travel center or travel center business that uses the TA brand in a specified territory for that TA branded franchise location. Under the terms of our franchise agreements for Petro travel centers, generally we have agreed not to operate, or allow another person to operate, a travel center or travel center business that uses the Petro brand in a specified territory for that Petro branded franchise location. As a result of these restrictions, we may be unable to develop, acquire or franchise a travel center in an area in which an additional travel center may be profitable, thereby losing an opportunity for future growth of our business.. Labor disputes or other events may arise that restrict, reduce or otherwise negatively impact the movement of goods in the United States, which may adversely impact parts of the trucking industry that are our customers and may adversely impact our financial results at travel centers we operate.. A meaningful aspect of the U.S. trucking industry involves the movement of goods across the United States. Events that restrict, reduce or otherwise negatively impact the movement of those goods may adversely impact the trucking industry. In recent years, there were extended labor disputes at U.S. west coast ports which slowed the loading and unloading of goods at those ports. A large percentage of the goods which are loaded and unloaded at those ports are transported to and from those ports by trucking companies, including some who are our customers. Future labor disputes could disrupt the transportation of goods across the United States and remain unresolved for a prolonged period. Such a disruption may materially and adversely affect our business and our ability to operate profitable travel centers and meet our rent obligations may be adversely affected.. Changes in tax laws or other actions could have a negative effect on us.. At any time, the federal or state income tax laws, or the administrative interpretations of those laws, may be revised. Federal and state tax laws are constantly under review and interpretation by persons involved in the legislative process, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, the U.S. Department of the Treasury and state taxing authorities. Changes to the tax laws, regulations and administrative interpretations, which may have retroactive application, could adversely affect us.. 27. Table of Contents. In particular, in December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act became law, making substantial changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, especially as it relates to the taxation of both corporate income and international income. Among those changes are a significant permanent reduction in the generally applicable corporate income tax rate and the elimination or modification of various deductions, such as for executive compensation and interest expense above certain thresholds. The new legislation generally limits business interest expense deductions to 30% of a taxpayer's adjusted taxable income for a taxable year, and beginning in 2022 this limitation will become more stringent as it will be determined after application of any deduction for depreciation, amortization, or depletion. Additionally, the legislation also imposes additional limitations on the deduction of net operating losses. The effects of these and other changes made in this legislation are highly complex; as such, we have not fully evaluated all the implications the changes to the Code may have on our income tax expense or payments. Furthermore, many of the provisions of the new law will require guidance through the issuance of Treasury regulations in order to fully implement them and assess their effect on us. There may be a substantial delay before such regulations are promulgated, thus leaving the uncertainty as to the ultimate effect of the statutory amendments to persist for an unknown period. It is also possible that there will be technical corrections legislation proposed with respect to the new law, the effect of which cannot be predicted and may be adverse to us.. We may be unable to utilize our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.. Net operating losses and other carryforwards are subject to limitations stemming from the December 2017 amendments to the Code providing that carryforwards of net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning after 2017 generally cannot offset more than 80% of the current year's taxable income. Moreover, pursuant to the December 2017 amendments to the Code, net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning after 2017 may not be carried back, but may be carried forward indefinitely. These limitations could affect our ability to utilize all of our existing net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.. If we experience an ownership change, our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, which currently are expected to be utilized to offset future taxable income, may be subject to limitations on usage or elimination. Our bylaws impose certain restrictions on the transfer of our shares in order to help us preserve the tax treatment of our net operating losses and other tax benefits (see below for a discussion of the risks related to our ownership limitations under the heading \"Risks Arising from Certain of Our Relationships and Our Organization and Structure\").. Changes in lease accounting standards may materially and adversely affect us.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board recently adopted new accounting rules, to be effective for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2019, that will require companies to capitalize all leases on their balance sheets by recognizing a lessee's rights and obligations. When the rules are effective, we expect we will be required to account for substantially all of our leases under which we are the lessee as assets and liabilities on our balance sheet, while currently we account for such leases on an \"off balance sheet\" basis. As a result, a significant amount of lease related assets and liabilities will be recognized in our balance sheets and we may be required to make other changes to the recording and classification of our lease related expenses. Though these changes will not have any direct impact on our overall financial condition or contractual payment or other obligations, these changes could cause investors or others to change the way they view our financial condition and could change the calculations of financial metrics and covenants, as well as third party financial models regarding our financial condition.. Our business could be adversely impacted if there are deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting.. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While our management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies, including any material weaknesses, in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting could result in misstatements of our results of operations or our financial statements or could otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. 28. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Acquisition and Growth Strategies. Acquisitions may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected and the anticipated benefits of our growth strategies or any particular transaction may not be fully realized.. Businesses and properties that we acquire often require substantial improvements in order to be brought up to our standards or to achieve our expected financial results. For example, improvements to our acquired travel centers are often extensive and require an extended period of time to plan, design, permit and complete, which is then followed by another period of time for the acquired travel center to become part of our customers' supply networks. Many locations we have acquired, and may in the future acquire, produced, or may produce, operating results before our acquisition that caused, or may cause, the prior owners to exit these businesses. Despite our efforts, the actual results of acquired properties may not improve under our management and may vary greatly from the results we expected when we made the acquisitions. These variances may occur due to many factors, including competition, the cost of improvements exceeding our estimates and our realization of less synergies and less cost savings than expected. Some of these factors are outside our control. If improvements are more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected or if reaching maturity takes longer than expected or does not occur at all, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected.. The success of our growth strategies, such as our expansion into the convenience store and standalone restaurant business, and any particular acquisition, including the realization of anticipated benefits, synergies and cost savings, will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine acquired businesses with ours. Integration of acquired businesses may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected, may result in the loss of key employees or business disruption to us, or may adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers and employees or to fully achieve the anticipated benefits of the growth strategy or acquisition. If we experience difficulties, the anticipated benefits of a growth strategy or particular transaction may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected.. We may not complete our development projects within the time frame or for the investment we anticipate, or at all, and the anticipated benefits of the new facilities may not be fully realized.. Developing a new location generally may be more risky than buying an existing operating location. Any development projects we plan could be delayed or not completed or could require a greater investment of capital or management time, or both, than we expect. Additionally, if we design, plan, permit or construct a project but do not complete it, we may incur substantial costs without realizing any expected benefits. Also, the facilities we construct may not generate the financial returns we anticipate.. Risks Arising from Certain of Our Relationships and Our Organization and Structure. Our agreements and relationships with HPT, our Managing Director, RMR and others related to them may create conflicts of interest, or the appearance of such conflicts, and may restrict our ability to grow our business.. We have significant commercial and other relationships with HPT, our Managing Director, The RMR Group LLC, or RMR, and others related to them, including:. • We lease a large majority of our travel centers from HPT and our business is substantially dependent upon our relationship with HPT.. • HPT is our largest shareholder, owning 8.6% of our outstanding common shares as of December 31, 2017.. • Our Managing Director, Adam D. Portnoy, is a current managing trustee of HPT, and his father, Barry M. Portnoy, is a former managing trustee of HPT, and together owned, directly or indirectly, in aggregate 1.4% of HPT's outstanding common shares as of December 31, 2017.. • RMR provides us with business management services pursuant to a business management agreement and we pay RMR fees for those services based on a percentage of our fuel gross margin and nonfuel revenues. RMR also provides business and property management services to HPT.. • Adam D. Portnoy is a managing director and an officer and, as the current sole trustee of ABP Trust, is the controlling shareholder of The RMR Group Inc. and is an officer of, and owns equity interests in, RMR. The RMR Group Inc. is the managing member of RMR and RMR is a subsidiary of The RMR Group Inc.. • Adam D. Portnoy and all of our Independent Directors are members of the boards of trustees or boards of directors of other public companies to which RMR or its subsidiaries provide management services.. 29. Table of Contents. • Andrew J. Rebholz, our Chief Executive Officer, Barry A. Richards, our President and Chief Operating Officer, William E. Myers, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, and Mark R. Young, our Executive Vice President and General Counsel, are also officers of RMR. Barry M. Portnoy was our other Managing Director and a director and an officer of The RMR Group Inc. and an officer of RMR until his death on February 25, 2018. Thomas M. O'Brien, our former Managing Director and President and Chief Executive Officer who retired effective December 31, 2017, was also an officer of RMR.. • In the event of conflicts between us and RMR, any affiliate of RMR or any publicly owned entity with which RMR has a relationship, including HPT, our business management agreement allows RMR to act on its own behalf and on behalf of HPT or such other entity rather than on our behalf.. • We, HPT and five other companies to which RMR provides management services currently own Affiliates Insurance Company, an Indiana insurance company, or AIC, and are parties to a shareholders agreement regarding AIC.. In an agreement with HPT entered in 2007 in connection with our spin off from HPT and in our HPT Leases, we granted HPT a right of first refusal to purchase, lease, mortgage or otherwise finance any interest we own in a travel center before we sell, lease, mortgage or otherwise finance that travel center with another party. Under the 2007 agreement, we also granted HPT and other entities to which RMR provides management services a right of first refusal to acquire or finance any real estate of the types in which they invest before we do. Additionally, under the HPT Leases, without the consent of HPT, we generally cannot own, franchise, finance, operate, lease or manage any travel center or similar property within 75 miles in either direction along the primary interstate on which a travel center owned by HPT is located. These rights of first refusal and noncompetition provisions could limit our ability to purchase or finance our properties or properties we may wish to invest in or acquire in the future. Also, under the 2007 agreement we agreed not to take any action that might reasonably be expected to have a material adverse impact on HPT's ability to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or REIT. For more information regarding our transactions, and leases with HPT, see Note 7 and Note 12 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 15 of this Annual Report.. These relationships could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving us, HPT, our Managing Director, RMR and others related to them. As a result of these relationships, our leases with HPT, management agreement with RMR and other transactions with HPT, our Managing Director, RMR and others related to them were not negotiated on an arm's length basis between unrelated parties, and therefore the terms thereof may not be as favorable to us as they would have been if they were negotiated on an arm's length basis between unrelated parties. In the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market or declines in the market price of a company's securities, shareholder litigation, dissident shareholder director nominations and dissident shareholder proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with affiliated and related persons and entities. These activities, if instituted against us, and the existence of conflicts of interest or the appearance of conflicts of interest, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management's attention and could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business and the market price of our common shares and other securities.. The substantial majority of the travel centers that we operate are owned by HPT and our business is substantially dependent on our relationship with HPT. In addition, we have significant commercial arrangements with RMR and we are dependent on those arrangements in operating our business.. Of the 256 travel centers we operate, 199, or 78%, are owned by HPT and, as a result, our business is substantially dependent on our relationship with HPT. We lease these travel centers pursuant to five long term leases with HPT. HPT may terminate our leases in certain circumstances, including if HPT does not receive minimum annual rent on the subject properties or for certain other events of default. Our business is substantially dependent upon our continued relationship with HPT. The loss of our leases with HPT, or a material change to their terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Additionally, we are party to a business management agreement with RMR whereby RMR assists us with various aspects of our business. As a result, we are dependent on our arrangements with RMR in operating our business and any adverse developments at RMR or in those arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to conduct our operations.. 30. Table of Contents. Ownership limitations and certain other provisions in our limited liability company agreement, bylaws and certain material agreements may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals.. Our limited liability company agreement, or our LLC agreement, and bylaws contain provisions that prohibit any shareholder from owning more than 9.8% and 5%, respectively, of the number or value of any class or series of our outstanding shares. The 9.8% ownership limitation in our LLC agreement is consistent with our contractual obligations with HPT to not take actions that may conflict with HPT's status as a REIT under the Code. The 5% ownership limitation in our bylaws is intended to help us preserve the tax treatment of our tax credit carryforwards, net operating losses and other tax benefits. We also believe these provisions promote good orderly governance. These provisions inhibit acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a shareholder may consider favorable.. Other provisions contained in our LLC agreement and bylaws may also inhibit acquisitions of a significant stake in us and deter, delay or prevent a change in control of us or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a shareholder may consider favorable, including, for example, provisions relating to:. • the division of our Directors into three classes, with the term of one class expiring each year;. • the authority of our Board of Directors, and not our shareholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws and to fill vacancies on the Board of Directors;. • limitations on the ability of shareholders to cause a special meeting of shareholders to be held and a prohibition on shareholders acting by written consent unless the consent is a unanimous consent of all our shareholders entitled to vote on the matter;. • required qualifications for an individual to serve as a Director and a requirement that certain of our Directors be \"Managing Directors\" and other Directors be \"Independent Directors,\" as defined in the governing documents;. • the power of our Board of Directors, without shareholders' approval, to authorize and issue additional shares of any class or type on terms that it determines;. • limitations on the ability of our shareholders to propose nominees for election as Directors and propose other business to be considered at a meeting of shareholders;. • a requirement that an individual Director may only be removed for cause and then only by unanimous vote of the other Directors; and a 75% shareholders' vote and cause requirements for removal of our entire Board of Directors;. • a 75% shareholders' vote requirement for shareholder nominations and other proposals that are not approved by our Board of Directors;. • our election to be governed by Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which would prohibit us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder, generally a person that together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of our voting shares, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested shareholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner;. • requirements that shareholders comply with regulatory requirements (including Illinois, Louisiana, Montana and Nevada gaming and Indiana insurance licensing requirements) affecting us which could effectively limit share ownership of us, including in some cases, to 5% of our outstanding shares; and. • requirements that any person nominated to be a Director comply with any clearance and pre-clearance requirements of state gaming or insurance licensing laws applicable to our business.. In addition, the HPT Leases, our business management agreement with RMR and our credit agreement for our $200.0 million secured revolving credit facility, or our Credit Facility, each provide that our rights and benefits under those agreements may be terminated in the event that anyone acquires more than 9.8% of our shares or we experience some other change in control, as defined in those agreements, without the consent of HPT, RMR or the lenders under the Credit Facility, respectively, and that pursuant to our shareholders agreement with respect to AIC, AIC and the other shareholders of AIC may have rights to acquire our interests in AIC if such an acquisition occurs or if we experience some other change in control. In addition, our obligation to repay deferred rent then outstanding under our amended leases with HPT may be accelerated if, among other things, a Director not nominated or appointed by the then members of our Board of Directors is elected to our Board of Directors or if our shareholders adopt a proposal (other than a precatory proposal) not recommended for adoption by the then members of our Board of Directors. For these reasons, among others, our shareholders may be unable to realize a change in control premium for securities they own or otherwise effect a change of our policies or a change of our control.. 31. Table of Contents. The licenses, permits and related approvals for our operations may restrict ownership of us, or prevent or delay any change in control of us.. We have travel center locations in Illinois, Louisiana, Montana and Nevada which include gaming operations. As a result, we and our subsidiaries involved in these operations are subject to gaming regulations in those states. Under state gaming regulations, which can vary by jurisdiction:. • shareholders whose ownership of our securities exceeds certain thresholds may be required to report their holdings to and to be licensed, found suitable or approved by the relevant state gaming authorities;. • persons seeking to acquire control over us or over the operation of our gaming license are subject to prior investigation by and approval from the relevant gaming authorities;. • persons who wish to serve as one of our Directors or officers may be required to be approved, found suitable and in some cases licensed, by the relevant state gaming authorities; and. • the relevant state gaming authorities may limit our involvement with or ownership of securities by persons they determine to be unsuitable.. As an owner of AIC, we are licensed and approved as an insurance holding company; and any shareholder who owns or controls 10% or more of our securities or anyone who wishes to solicit proxies for election of, or to serve as, one of our Directors or for another proposal of business not approved by our Board of Directors may be required to receive pre-clearance from the relevant insurance regulators.. The gaming and insurance regulations to which we are subject may discourage or prevent investors from nominating persons to serve as our Directors, from purchasing our securities, from attempting to acquire control of us or otherwise implementing changes that they consider beneficial.. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our Directors, officers, HPT and RMR are limited.. Our LLC agreement eliminates the personal liability of each of our Directors to us and our shareholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as our Director, except for a breach of the Director's duty of loyalty to us or our shareholders as modified by our LLC agreement, for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involved intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, or for any transaction from which the Director derived an improper personal benefit. Our LLC agreement also provides that our Directors and officers, HPT, RMR, and the respective trustees, directors and officers of HPT and RMR shall not be liable for monetary damages to us or our shareholders for losses sustained or liabilities incurred as a result of any act or omission by any of them unless there has been a final, nonappealable judgment entered by a court determining that such person or entity acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud, willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that his, her or its conduct was unlawful.. Our LLC agreement also generally requires us to indemnify, to the fullest extent permitted by law, our present and former Directors and officers, HPT, RMR, and the respective directors and officers of HPT and RMR for losses they may incur arising from claims or actions in which any of them may be involved in connection with any act or omission by such person or entity in good faith on behalf of or with respect to us. We also have similar obligations to our Directors and officers under individual indemnification agreements with such persons. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former Directors and officers, HPT, RMR, and the respective directors and officers of HPT and RMR without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our present and former Directors and officers, HPT, RMR, and the respective directors, trustees and officers of HPT and RMR than might otherwise exist absent the provisions in our LLC agreement and our indemnification agreements or that might exist with other companies, which could limit our shareholders' recourse in the event of actions not in our shareholders' best interest.. 32. Table of Contents. Disputes with HPT and RMR and shareholder litigation against us or our Directors and officers may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings.. Our contracts with HPT and RMR provide that any dispute arising under those contracts may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Similarly, our LLC agreement and bylaws provide that certain actions by our shareholders against us or against our Directors and officers, other than disputes or any portion thereof, regarding the meaning, interpretation or validity of any provision of our LLC agreement and bylaws may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. As a result, we and our shareholders would not be able to pursue litigation in courts against HPT, RMR or our Directors and officers for disputes referred to arbitration in accordance with our LLC agreement and bylaws. In addition, the ability to collect attorney's fees or other damages may be limited in the arbitration proceedings, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such a proceeding.. We may experience losses from our business dealings with AIC.. We, HPT, and five other companies to which RMR provides management services each own 14.3% of AIC. We and those other AIC shareholders participate in a combined insurance program arranged and insured or reinsured in part by AIC and we periodically consider the possibilities for expanding our relationship with AIC to other types of insurance. Our principal reason for investing in AIC and for purchasing insurance in these programs is to seek to improve our financial results by obtaining improved insurance coverages at lower costs than may be otherwise available to us or by participating in any profits which we may realize as an owner of AIC. While we believe we have in the past benefitted from these arrangements, these beneficial financial results may not occur in the future, and we may need to invest additional capital in order to continue to pursue these results. AIC's business involves the risks typical of an insurance business, including the risk that it may not operate profitably. Accordingly, financial benefits from our business dealings with AIC may not be achieved in the future, and we may experience losses from these dealings.. Risks Related to Our Securities. Our shares have experienced significant price and trading volume volatility and may continue to do so.. Since we became a publicly traded company in January 2007, our shares have experienced significant share price and trading volatility, which may continue. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated and could fluctuate significantly in the future in response to various factors and events, including, but not limited to, the risks set out in this Annual Report, as well as:. • the liquidity of the market for our common shares;. • our historic policy to not pay cash dividends;. • changes in our operating results;. • issuances of additional common shares and sales of our common shares by holders of large blocks of our common shares, such as HPT or our Directors or officers;. • a lack of analyst coverage, changes in analysts' expectations and unfavorable research reports; and. • general economic and industry trends and conditions.. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources.. Investors may not benefit financially from investing in our Senior Notes.. The indenture under which the 2028 Senior Notes, the 2029 Senior Notes, and the 2030 Senior Notes, which we refer to collectively as the Senior Notes, were issued contains no financial covenants or other provisions that would afford the holders of the Senior Notes any substantial protection in the event we participate in a material transaction. In addition, the indenture does not limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur or our ability to pay dividends, make distributions or repurchase our common shares. Additionally, investors in our Senior Notes may be adversely affected as a result of the following:. • the Senior Notes are unsecured and effectively subordinated to all of our existing and future secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness;. • an active trading market for the Senior Notes may not be maintained or be liquid;. 33. Table of Contents. • we depend upon our subsidiaries for cash flow to service our debt, and the Senior Notes are structurally subordinated to the payment of the indebtedness, lease and other liabilities and any preferred equity of our subsidiaries;. • the Senior Notes are not rated;. • redemption may adversely affect noteholders' return on the Senior Notes; and. • an increase in market interest rates and other factors could result in a decrease in the value of the Senior Notes.. Our Credit Facility imposes restrictive covenants on us, and a default under the agreements relating to our Credit Facility or under our indenture governing our Senior Notes could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. Our Credit Facility requires us and our subsidiaries, among other obligations, to maintain a specified financial ratio under certain circumstances and to satisfy certain financial tests. In addition, our Credit Facility restricts, among other things, our ability to incur debt and liens, make certain investments and pay dividends and other distributions including, under certain circumstances, payments on the Senior Notes. Under certain circumstances, we are required to seek permission from the lenders under our Credit Facility to engage in specified corporate actions.. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants. Failure to comply with these covenants (or similar covenants contained in future financing agreements) could result in a default under our Credit Facility, indenture and other agreements containing cross default provisions, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A default could permit lenders or holders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing the debt and to terminate any commitments to lend. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations, including our obligations under the Senior Notes. In addition, a default under our Credit Facility or indenture would also constitute a default under the HPT Leases due to cross default provisions in the HPT Leases. Further, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. If our indebtedness were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. In such circumstances, we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation and, as a result, investors could lose their investment in our securities."
