[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. There are a number of factors that may adversely affect the Company's business, financial results, or stock price. Information concerning additional risk factors related to the proposed merger of the Company and FNB Bancorp is available in the Company's registration statement on Form S-4 SEC to be filed with the SEC. In analyzing whether to make or continue holding an investment in the Company, investors should consider, among other factors, the following:. Risks Related to the Nature and Geographic Area of Our Business. We are exposed to risks in connection with the loans we make.. As a lender, we face a significant risk that we will sustain losses because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of the loans we make or acquire. Our earnings are significantly affected by our ability to properly originate, underwrite and service loans. We have underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, that we believe appropriately address this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our respective loan portfolios. Such policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could adversely affect our results of operations. We could sustain losses if we incorrectly assess the creditworthiness of our borrowers or fail to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner.. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses.. Like other financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses would reduce our earnings and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The allowance for loan losses reflects our estimate of the probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio at the relevant balance sheet date. Our allowance for loan losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the known risks in the current portfolio, composition and growth of the loan portfolio and economic factors. Determining an appropriate level of loan loss allowance is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal and state regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses. While we believe that our allowance for loan losses is. 9. adequate to cover current losses, we cannot assure you that we will not increase the allowance for loan losses further or that the allowance will be adequate to absorb loan losses we actually incur. Either of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 10. Our business may be adversely affected by business conditions in northern and central California.. We conduct most of our business in northern and central California. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results may be impacted by economic conditions in California. Deterioration in the economic conditions in California could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows:. <U+0095>   problem assets and foreclosures may increase,. <U+0095>   demand for our products and services may decline,. <U+0095>   low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease, and. <U+0095>   collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans.. In view of the concentration of our operations and the collateral securing our loan portfolio in both northern and central California, we may be particularly susceptible to the adverse effects of any of these consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. A significant majority of the loans in our portfolio are secured by real estate and a downturn in our real estate markets could hurt our business.. A downturn in our real estate markets in which we conduct our business in California could hurt our business because most of our loans are secured by real estate. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies and acts of nature. As real estate prices decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans is reduced. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral could then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 91.9% of the book value of our loan portfolio consisted of loans collateralized by various types of real estate. Substantially all of our real estate collateral is located in California. So if there is a significant adverse decline in real estate values in California, the collateral for our loans will provide less security. Real estate values could also be affected by, among other things, earthquakes, drought and national disasters in our markets. Any such downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We depend on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects.. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the California community banking industry. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of our management and personnel. In particular, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of our senior management team of Messrs. Smith, Bailey, Carney, Fleshood, O'Sullivan and Reddish, who have expertise in banking and collective experience in the California markets we serve and have targeted for future expansion. We also depend upon a number of other key executives who are California natives or are long-time residents and who are integral to implementing our business plan. The loss of the services of any one of our senior executive management team or other key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are exposed to the risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title.. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean-up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Strong competition in California could hurt our profits.. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete. We primarily compete in northern and central California for loans, deposits and. 11. customers with commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage firms and Internet-based marketplace lending platforms. In particular, our competitors include major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions may have larger lending limits which would allow them to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain loan and deposit customers and a range in quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances enable more companies, such as Internet-based marketplace lenders, to provide financial services, often without many of regulatory and capital restrictions that we face. We also face competition from out-of-state financial intermediaries that have opened loan production offices or that solicit deposits in our market areas. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to continue our loan growth and level of deposits and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected.. Our previous results may not be indicative of our future results.. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth and level of profitability or may not even be able to grow our business or continue to be profitable at all. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence and financial performance. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to a high percentage of our operating costs being fixed expenses.. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral that we hold cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Severe weather, natural disasters and other external events could adversely affect our business.. Our operations and our customer base are primarily located in northern and central California where natural and other disasters may occur. These regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes, fires, droughts and floods, the nature and severity of which may be impacted by climate change. These types of natural catastrophic events have at times disrupted the local economies, our business and customers in these regions. Such events could also affect the stability of the Bank's deposit base; impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans and cause significant property damage, result in losses of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. In addition, catastrophic events occurring in other regions of the world may have an impact on our customers and in turn, on us. Our business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not be successful upon the occurrence of one of these scenarios, and a significant catastrophic event anywhere in the world could materially adversely affect our operating results.. The impacts of recent tax reform are not yet fully known, and these and other tax regulations could be subject to potential legislative, administrative or judicial changes or interpretations.. The tax reform bill enacted on December 22, 2017 has had, and is expected to continue to have, far-reaching and significant effects on us, our customers and the U.S. economy. The tax reform bill lowered the corporate federal statutory tax rate and eliminated or limited certain federal corporate deductions. It is too early to evaluate all of the potential consequences of the tax reform bill, but such consequences could include lower commercial customer borrowings, either due to the increase in cash flows as a result of the reduction in the corporate statutory tax rate or the utilization by businesses in certain sectors of alternative non-debt financing and/or early retirement of existing debt. Further, there can be no assurance that any benefits realized by us as a result of the reduction in the corporate federal statutory tax rate will ultimately result in increased net income, whether due to decreased loan yields as a result of competition or to other factors. Uncertainty also exists related to state and other taxing jurisdictions' response to federal tax reform, which will continue to be monitored and evaluated.. Federal income tax treatment of corporations may be further clarified and modified by other legislative, administrative or judicial changes or interpretations at any time. Any such changes could adversely affect us.. 12. Market and Interest Rate Risk. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets.. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and leases and investments, and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice-versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and lease and deposit products may not change to the same degree over a given time period. If market interest rates should move contrary to our position, earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan and lease volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates as can the businesses of our clients. Changes in levels of market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume, and overall profitability.. Market interest rates are beyond our control, and they fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, may negatively affect our ability to originate loans and leases, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately could affect our earnings.. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance.. Because of the differences in the maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our interest rate spread and, in turn, our profitability. In addition, loan origination volumes are affected by market interest rates. Rising interest rates, generally, are associated with a lower volume of loan originations while lower interest rates are usually associated with higher loan originations. Conversely, in rising interest rate environments, loan repayment rates may decline and in falling interest rate environments, loan repayment rates may increase. Although we were successful in generating new loans during 2017, the continuation of historically low long-term interest rate levels may cause additional refinancing of commercial real estate and 1-4 family residence loans, which may depress our loan volumes or cause rates on loans to decline. In addition, an increase in the general level of short-term interest rates on variable rate loans may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations or reduce the amount they wish to borrow. Additionally, if short-term market rates rise, in order to retain existing deposit customers and attract new deposit customers we may need to increase rates we pay on deposit accounts. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Regulatory Risks. Recently enacted financial reform legislation has, among other things, created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, tightened capital standards and resulted in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act, which was enacted in 2010, significantly changed the current bank regulatory structure and affects the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit \"unfair, deceptive or abusive\" acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks with $10 billion or less in assets, such as the Bank, are subject to the CFPB's rules but continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act required the FDIC and FRB to adopt new, more stringent capital rules that apply to us. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws.. It is difficult to predict the continuing impact that the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense.. 13. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by new laws and regulations or changes in existing laws and regulations. Regulations may prevent or impair our ability to pay dividends, engage in acquisitions or operate in other ways.. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the DBO, FDIC, and the FRB. See Item 1 - Regulation and Supervision of this report for information on the regulation and supervision which governs our activities. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Banking regulations, designed primarily for the protection of depositors, may limit our growth and the return to our shareholders by restricting certain of our activities, such as:. <U+0095>   the payment of dividends to our shareholders,. <U+0095>   possible mergers with or acquisitions of or by other institutions,. <U+0095>   desired investments,. <U+0095>   loans and interest rates on loans,. <U+0095>   interest rates paid on deposits,. <U+0095>   service charges on deposit account transactions,. <U+0095>   the possible expansion of branch offices, and. <U+0095>   the ability to provide securities or trust services.. We also are subject to regulatory capital requirements. We could be subject to regulatory enforcement actions if, any of our regulators determines for example, that we have violated a law of regulation, engaged in unsafe or unsound banking practice or lack adequate capital. Federal and state governments and regulators could pass legislation and adopt policies responsive to current credit conditions that would have an adverse effect on the Company and its financial performance. We cannot predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that such changes may have on our future business and earnings prospects. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material adverse impact on our operations.. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional risks and expenses.. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new SEC regulations, are creating additional expense for publicly-traded companies such as the Company. The application of these laws, regulations and standards may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased expenses and a diversion of management time and attention. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding management's required assessment of its internal control over financial reporting and its external auditors' audit of our internal control over financial reporting requires, and will continue to require, the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. Further, the members of our board of directors, members of our audit or compensation and management succession committees, our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer and certain other executive officers could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. It may also become more difficult and more expensive to obtain director and officer liability insurance. As a result, our ability to attract and retain executive officers and qualified board and committee members could be more difficult.. We may be adversely affected by recent changes in U.S. tax laws.. The enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\") on December 22, 2017 made significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code, many of which are highly complex and may require interpretations and implementing regulations. As a result of the TCJA's reduction of the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, we were required to re-measure our net deferred tax assets and to record a charge to income tax expense in the quarter ended December 31, 2017 of approximately $7.4 million, which amount is subject to refinement in future periods as further information becomes available. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Income Taxes\". Furthermore, we may incur additional meaningful expenses (including professional fees) as the TCJA is implemented, and the expected impact of certain aspects of the statute remains unclear and subject to change.. The TCJA includes a number of provisions that will have an impact on the banking industry, borrowers and the market for residential real estate. These changes include: (i) a lower limit on the deductibility of mortgage interest on single-family residential mortgage loans, (ii) the elimination of interest deductions for home equity loans, (iii) a limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense, and (iv) a limitation on the deductibility of property taxes and state and local. 14. income taxes. The TCJA may have an adverse effect on the market for and the valuation of residential properties, as well as on the demand for such loans in the future, and could make it harder for borrowers to make their loan payments. The value of the properties securing loans in our loan portfolio may be adversely impacted as a result of the changing economics of home ownership. Such an impact could require an increase in our provision for loan losses, which would reduce our profitability and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Growth and Expansion. Goodwill resulting from acquisitions may adversely affect our results of operations.. Goodwill and other intangible assets have increased substantially as a result of our acquisition of North Valley Bancorp in 2014 and will further increase following our acquisition of FNBB. Potential impairment of goodwill and amortization of other intangible assets could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We assess our goodwill and other intangible assets and long-lived assets for impairment annually and more frequently when required by U.S. GAAP. We are required to record an impairment charge if circumstances indicate that the asset carrying values exceed their fair values. Our assessment of goodwill, other intangible assets, or long-lived assets could indicate that an impairment of the carrying value of such assets may have occurred that could result in a material, non-cash write-down of such assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and future earnings.. If we cannot attract deposits, our growth may be inhibited.. We plan to increase the level of our assets, including our loan portfolio. Our ability to increase our assets depends in large part on our ability to attract additional deposits at favorable rates. We intend to seek additional deposits by offering deposit products that are competitive with those offered by other financial institutions in our markets and by establishing personal relationships with our customers. We cannot assure that these efforts will be successful. Our inability to attract additional deposits at competitive rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Existing and potential acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute stockholder value.. On December 11, 2017, we entered into the Merger Agreement providing for our acquisition of FNBB and its wholly-owned subsidiary, First National Bank of Northern California. The Merger is expected to close in the second quarter of 2018, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including the receipt of regulatory and shareholder approvals.. The success of the merger will depend on, among other things, our ability to realize the anticipated revenue enhancements and efficiencies and to combine the businesses of the Company and FNBB in a manner that does not materially disrupt the existing customer relationships of FNBB or result in decreased revenues resulting from any loss of customers and that permits growth opportunities to occur. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the Merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected.. The Company and FNBB have operated and, until the completion of the Merger, will continue to operate, independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company's ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Merger. Integration efforts between the two companies could also divert management attention and resources.. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on each of the Company and FNBB the transition period and on the combined company following completion of the Merger.. We intend to continue to explore expanding our branch system through opening new bank branches and in-store branches in existing or new markets in northern and central California. In the ordinary course of business, we evaluate potential branch locations that would bolster our ability to cater to the small business, individual and residential lending markets in California. Any given new branch, if and when opened, will have expenses in excess of revenues for varying periods after opening that may adversely affect our results of operations or overall financial condition. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity. 15. securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our stock's tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from recent or future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We cannot say with any certainty that we will be able to consummate, or if consummated, successfully integrate future acquisitions or that we will not incur disruptions or unexpected expenses in integrating such acquisitions. In attempting to make such future acquisitions, we anticipate competing with other financial institutions, many of which have greater financial and operational resources. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things:. <U+0095>   incurring substantial expenses in pursuing potential acquisitions without completing such acquisitions,. <U+0095>   exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company,. <U+0095>   losing key clients as a result of the change of ownership,. <U+0095>   the acquired business not performing in accordance with our expectations,. <U+0095>   difficulties and expenses arising in connection with the integration of the operations of the acquired business with our operations,. <U+0095>   difficulty in estimating the value of the target company,. <U+0095>   needing to make significant investments and infrastructure, controls, staff, emergency backup facilities or other critical business functions that become strained by our growth,. <U+0095>   management needing to divert attention from other aspects of our business,. <U+0095>   potentially losing key employees of the acquired business,. <U+0095>   incurring unanticipated costs which could reduce our earnings per share,. <U+0095>   assuming potential liabilities of the acquired company as a result of the acquisition,. <U+0095>   potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company,. <U+0095>   potential disruption to our business, and. <U+0095>   an acquisition may dilute our earnings per share, in both the short and long term, or it may reduce our tangible capital ratios.. Our growth and expansion may strain our ability to manage our operations and our financial resources.. Our financial performance and profitability depend on our ability to execute our corporate growth strategy. In addition to seeking deposit and loan and lease growth in our existing markets, we may pursue expansion opportunities in new markets. Continued growth, however, may present operating and other problems that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to execute our growth strategy or maintain the level of profitability that we have recently experienced.. Our growth may place a strain on our administrative, operational and financial resources and increase demands on our systems and controls. This business growth may require continued enhancements to and expansion of our operating and financial systems and controls and may strain or significantly challenge them. In addition, our existing operating and financial control systems and infrastructure may not be adequate to maintain and effectively monitor future growth. Our continued growth may also increase our need for qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, integrating and retaining such personnel.. Risks Relating to Dividends and Our Common Stock. Our future ability to pay dividends is subject to restrictions.. As a holding company with no significant assets other than the Bank, we depend on dividends from the Bank to fund our operations and for a substantial portion of our revenues. Our ability to continue to pay dividends depends in large part upon our receipt of dividends or other capital distributions from the Bank. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends or make other capital distributions to us is subject to the restrictions in the California Financial Code. As of December 31, 2017, the Bank could have paid approximately $85,254,000 in dividends to TriCo without the prior approval of the DBO. The amount that the Bank may pay in dividends is further restricted due to the fact that the Bank must maintain a certain minimum amount of capital to be considered a \"well capitalized\" institution as well as a separate capital conservation buffer, as further described under \"Item 1  -  Supervision and Regulation  -  Regulatory Capital Requirements\" in this report.. 16. From time to time, we may become a party to financing agreements or other contractual arrangements that have the effect of limiting or prohibiting us or the Bank from declaring or paying dividends. Our holding company expenses and obligations with respect to our trust preferred securities and corresponding junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures issued by us may limit or impair our ability to declare or pay dividends. Finally, our ability to pay dividends is also subject to the restrictions of the California Corporations Code. See \"Regulation and Supervision  -  Restrictions on Dividends and Distributions.\". Anti-takeover provisions and federal law may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could cause our stock price to decline.. Various provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions provide for, among other things, specified actions that the Board of Directors shall or may take when an offer to merge, an offer to acquire all assets or a tender offer is received and the authority to issue preferred stock by action of the board of directors acting alone, without obtaining shareholder approval.. The BHC Act and the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, together with federal regulations, require that, depending on the particular circumstances, either FRB approval must be obtained or notice must be furnished to the FRB and not disapproved prior to any person or entity acquiring \"control\" of a bank holding company such as TriCo. These provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to shareholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock.. The amount of common stock owned by, and other compensation arrangements with, our officers and directors may make it more difficult to obtain shareholder approval of potential takeovers that they oppose.. As of December 31, 2017, directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 8.9% of our common stock and our Employee Stock Ownership Plan (\"ESOP\") owned approximately 5.1%. Agreements with our senior management also provide for significant payments under certain circumstances following a change in control. These compensation arrangements, together with the common stock beneficially owned by our board of directors, management, and the ESOP could make it difficult or expensive to obtain majority support for shareholder proposals or potential acquisition proposals of us that our directors and officers oppose.. We may issue additional common stock or other equity securities in the future which could dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders.. In order to maintain our capital at desired or regulatory-required levels, or to fund future growth, our board of directors may decide from time to time to issue additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or representing rights to acquire shares of our common stock. The sale of these shares may significantly dilute your ownership interest as a shareholder. New investors in the future may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current shareholders which may adversely impact our current shareholders.. Holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our common stockholders.. We have supported our continued growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from special purpose trusts and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2017, we had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures with face value of $62,889,000. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are conditionally guaranteed by us. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures we issued to the trusts are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before we can pay any dividends on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock.. Risks Relating to Systems, Accounting and Internal Controls. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal and disclosure controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our securities.. Effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We continually review and analyze our internal control over financial reporting for Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 compliance. As part of that process we may discover material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control as defined under standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board that require remediation. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination. 17. of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected in a timely basis. A significant deficiency is a deficiency or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for the oversight of the Company's financial reporting.. As a result of weaknesses that may be identified in our internal controls, we may also identify certain deficiencies in some of our disclosure controls and procedures that we believe require remediation. If we discover weaknesses, we will make efforts to improve our internal and disclosure controls. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful. Any failure to maintain effective controls or timely effect any necessary improvement of our internal and disclosure controls could harm operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, which could affect our ability to remain listed with Nasdaq. Ineffective internal and disclosure controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities.. We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology and we may suffer an interruption in or breach of the security of those systems.. We rely heavily on our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology to conduct our business. We rely on third party services providers to provide many of these systems. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and loan origination systems. We cannot assure you that such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed by us or the third parties service providers on which we rely. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customers, expose us to possible financial liability, lead to additional regulatory scrutiny or require that we make expenditures for remediation or prevention. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 18. We rely on certain third-party vendors.. We are reliant upon certain third-party vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain our day-to-day operations. Accordingly, our operations are exposed to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with applicable contractual arrangements or service level agreements. We maintain a system of policies and procedures designed to monitor vendor risks including, among other things, (i) changes in the vendor's organizational structure, (ii) changes in the vendor's financial condition, (iii) changes in existing products and services or the introduction of new products and services, and (iv) changes in the vendor's support for existing products and services. While we believe these policies and procedures help to mitigate risk, the failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with applicable contractual arrangements or the service level agreements could be disruptive to our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is highly reliant on technology and our ability and our third party service providers to manage the operational risks associated with technology.. Our business involves storing and processing sensitive consumer and business customer data. We depend on internal systems, third party service providers, and outsourced technology to support these data storage and processing operations. Despite our efforts to ensure the security and integrity of our systems, we may not be able to anticipate, detect or recognize threats to our systems or those of third party service providers or to implement effective preventive measures against all cyber security breaches. Cyberattack techniques change regularly and can originate from a wide variety of sources, including third parties who are or may be involved in organized crime or linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments, and such third parties may seek to gain access to systems directly or using equipment or security passwords belonging to employees, customers, third-party service providers or other users of our systems. These risks may increase in the future as we continue to increase our mobile and other internet-based product offerings and expands our internal usage of web-based products and applications. A cyber security breach or cyberattack could persist for a long time before being detected and could result in theft of sensitive data or disruption of our transaction processing systems.. Our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timeliness and efficiency of our business operations. A material breach of customer data security may negatively impact our business reputation and cause a loss of customers, result in increased expense to contain the event and/or require that we provide credit monitoring services for affected customers, result in regulatory fines and sanctions and/or result in litigation. Cyber security risk management programs are expensive to maintain and will not protect us from all risks associated with maintaining the security of customer data and our proprietary data from external and internal intrusions, disaster recovery and failures in the controls used by our vendors. In addition, Congress and the legislatures of states in which we operate regularly consider legislation that would impose more stringent data privacy requirements, resulting in increased compliance costs.. A failure to implement technological advances could negatively impact our business.. The banking industry is undergoing technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to improving customer services, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or successfully market such products and services to our customers."
