[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Our business is subject to a number of risks which are discussed below. There are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different from those mentioned in forward-looking statements that we make from time to time in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\"), news releases, reports, proxy statements, registration statements, and other written communications, as well as oral forward-looking statements made from time to time by representatives of our Company. All known material risks and uncertainties are described below. You should consider carefully these risks and uncertainties in addition to the other information contained in this report and our other filings with the SEC including our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, and any amendments thereto before deciding to buy, sell, or hold our securities. If any of the following known risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on us, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and/or liquidity could be harmed. In that event, the market price for our various securities could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment.. The cautionary statements below discuss important factors that could cause our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows to be materially adversely affected. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained herein. We undertake no obligations to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.. Risks Related to our Business. Many of the industries in which we operate are cyclical, and, accordingly, our business is subject to changes in the economy. We operate in cyclical industries. Periodic downturns in economic conditions usually have a significant adverse effect on cyclical industries due to decreased demand for new and replacement products. Decreased demand could result in lower sales volumes, lower prices, and/or a decline in or loss of profits. The railcar, barge, and wind energy industries have previously experienced sharp cyclical downturns and at such times operated with a minimal backlog. While the business cycles of our different operations may not typically coincide, an economic downturn could affect disparate cycles contemporaneously. The impacts of such an economic downturn may magnify the adverse effect on our business.. Volatility in the global markets may adversely affect our business and operating results. Instability in the global economy, negative conditions in the global credit markets, volatility in the industries that our products serve, fluctuations in commodity prices that our customers produce and transport, changes in legislative policy, adverse changes in the availability of raw materials and supplies, or adverse changes in the financial condition of our customers could lead to customers' requests for deferred deliveries of our backlog orders. Additionally such events could result in our customers' attempts to unilaterally cancel or terminate firm contracts or orders in whole or in part resulting in contract or purchase order breaches and increased commercial litigation costs. Such occurrences could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations.. If volatile conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers' access to credit, product order volumes may decrease or customers may default on payments owed to us. Likewise, if our suppliers face challenges obtaining credit, selling their products to customers that require purchasing credit, or otherwise operating their businesses, the supply of materials we purchase from them to manufacture our products may be interrupted. Any of these conditions or events could result in reductions in our revenues,. 9. Table of Contents. increased price competition, or increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Litigated disputes and other claims could increase our costs and weaken our financial condition. We are currently, and may from time to time be, involved in various claims or legal proceedings arising out of our operations. Adverse judgments and outcomes in some or all of these matters could result in significant losses and costs that could weaken our financial condition. Although we maintain reserves for our reasonably estimable liability, our reserves may be inadequate to cover our portion of claims or final judgments after taking into consideration rights in indemnity and recourse to third parties as a result of which there could be a material adverse effect on our business, operations, or financial condition. See Note 18 Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information on any material pending legal proceedings other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our business, including the current status of the Company's Highway Products litigation.. While state and federal procedural rules exist to curtail the filing of claims against the Company in jurisdictions unrelated to the underlying claims, courts sometime may not enforce these rules, exposing us to a greater likelihood of unfavorable results and increased litigation costs. Whenever our products are sold to or ultimately owned and/or operated by governments or their authorized agencies, we may be unable to seek redress or recourse to at-fault parties. When litigation arising from the installation, maintenance, replacement, or use of our products is filed against the Company, recourse to such governments or authorized agencies may be subject to sovereign immunity or related defenses thereby exposing the Company to risk of liability and increased costs irrespective of fault.. Changes in the price and demand for steel could lower our margins and profitability. The principal material used in our manufacturing segments is steel. Market steel prices may exhibit periods of volatility. Steel prices may experience further volatility as a result of scrap surcharges assessed by steel mills and other market factors. We often use contract-specific purchasing practices, supplier commitments, contractual price escalation provisions, and other arrangements with our customers to mitigate the effect of this volatility on our operating profits for the year. To the extent that we do not have such arrangements in place, a change in steel prices could materially lower our profitability. In addition, meeting production demands is dependent on our ability to obtain a sufficient amount of steel. An unanticipated interruption in our supply chain could have an adverse impact on both our margins and production schedules.. We have potential exposure to environmental liabilities that may increase costs and lower profitability. We are subject to comprehensive federal, state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations relating to: (i) the release or discharge of materials into the environment at our facilities or with respect to our products while in operation; (ii) the management, use, processing, handling, storage, transport, and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, substances, and materials; and (iii) other activities relating to the protection of human health and the environment. Such laws and regulations expose us to liability for our own acts and in certain instances potentially expose us to liability for the acts of others. These laws and regulations also may impose liability on us currently under circumstances where at the time of the action taken, our acts or those of others complied with then applicable laws and regulations. In addition, such laws may require significant expenditures to achieve compliance, and are frequently modified or revised to impose new obligations. Civil and criminal fines and penalties may be imposed for non-compliance with these environmental laws and regulations. Our operations involving hazardous materials also raise potential risks of liability under common law.. Environmental operating permits are, or may be, required for our operations under these laws and regulations. These operating permits are subject to modification, renewal, and revocation. Although we regularly monitor and review our operations, procedures, and policies for compliance with our operating permits and related laws and regulations, the risk of environmental liability is inherent in the operation of our businesses, as it is with other companies operating under environmental permits.. However, future events, such as changes in, or modified interpretations of, existing environmental laws and regulations or enforcement policies, or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards associated with the manufacture of our products and related business activities and properties, may give rise to additional compliance and other costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations.. In addition to environmental laws, the transportation of commodities by railcar, barge, or container raises potential risks in the event of an accident that results in the release of an environmentally sensitive substance. Generally, liability under existing laws for a derailment or other accident depends upon causation analysis and the acts, errors, or omissions, if any, of a party involved in the transportation activity, including, but not limited to, the railroad, the shipper, the buyer and seller of the substances being transported, or the manufacturer of the railcar, barge, or container, or its components. Additionally, the severity of injury or property damage arising from an incident may influence the causation responsibility analysis, exposing the Company to potentially greater liability. Under certain circumstances, strict liability concepts may apply and if we are found liable in any such incident, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business, and operations.. We operate in highly competitive industries. We may not be able to sustain our market leadership positions, which may impact our financial results. We face aggressive competition in all geographic markets and each industry sector in which we operate. In addition to price, we face competition in respect to product performance and technological innovation, quality, reliability of delivery,. 10. Table of Contents. customer service, and other factors. The effects of this competition, which is often intense, could reduce our revenues and operating profits, limit our ability to grow, increase pricing pressure on our products, and otherwise affect our financial results.. The limited number of customers for certain of our products, the variable purchase patterns of our customers in all of our segments, and the timing of completion, delivery, and customer acceptance of orders may cause our revenues and income from operations to vary substantially each quarter, potentially resulting in significant fluctuations in our quarterly results. Some of the markets we serve have a limited number of customers. The volumes purchased by customers in each of our business segments vary from year to year, and not all customers make purchases every year. As a result, the order levels for our products have varied significantly from quarterly period to quarterly period in the past and may continue to vary significantly in the future. Therefore, our results of operations in any particular quarterly period may also vary. As a result of these quarterly fluctuations, we believe that comparisons of our sales and operating results between quarterly periods may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance.. Our access to capital may be limited or unavailable due to deterioration of conditions in the global capital markets, weakening of macroeconomic conditions, and negative changes in our credit ratings. In general, the Company, and more specifically its leasing subsidiaries' operations, relies in large part upon banks and capital markets to fund its operations and contractual commitments and refinance existing debt. These markets can experience high levels of volatility and access to capital can be constrained for extended periods of time. In addition to conditions in the capital markets, a number of other factors could cause the Company to incur increased borrowing costs and have greater difficulty accessing public and private markets for both secured and unsecured debt. These factors include the Company's financial performance and its credit ratings and rating outlook as determined primarily by rating agencies such as Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC, Moody's Investors Service, Inc., and Fitch Ratings, Inc. If the Company is unable to secure financing on acceptable terms, the Company's other sources of funds, including available cash, bank facilities, and cash flow from operations may not be adequate to fund its operations and contractual commitments and refinance existing debt.. We may be unable to maintain railcar assets on lease at satisfactory lease rates. The profitability of our railcar leasing business depends on our ability to lease railcars at satisfactory lease rates, to re-lease railcars at satisfactory lease rates upon the expiration and non-renewal of existing leases, and to sell railcars in the secondary market as part of our ordinary course of business. Our ability to lease, re-lease, maintain satisfactory lease rates, or sell leased or unleased railcars profitably is dependent upon several factors, including, among others:. •the cost of and demand for leases or ownership of newer or specific-use railcar types;. •the general availability in the market of competing used or new railcars;. •the degree of obsolescence of leased or unleased railcars, including railcars subject to regulatory obsolescence;. •the prevailing market and economic conditions, including the availability of credit, interest rates, and inflation rates;. •the market demand or governmental mandate for refurbishment; and. •the volume and nature of railcar traffic and loadings. A downturn in the industries in which our lessees operate and decreased demand for railcars could also increase our exposure to re-marketing risk because lessees may demand shorter lease terms or newer railcars, requiring us to re-market leased railcars more frequently. Furthermore, the resale market for previously leased railcars has a limited number of potential buyers. Our inability to re-lease or sell leased or unleased railcars on favorable terms could result in lower lease rates, lower lease utilization percentages, and reduced revenues and operating profit.. Fluctuations in the price and supply of raw materials and parts and components used in the production of our products could have a material adverse effect on our ability to cost-effectively manufacture and sell our products. In some instances, we rely on a limited number of suppliers for certain raw materials and parts and components needed in our production.  A significant portion of our business depends on the adequate supply of numerous specialty and other parts and components at competitive prices such as brakes, wheels, side frames, bolsters, and bearings for the railcar business, as well as flanges for the structural wind towers business. Our manufacturing operations partially depend on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of raw materials, parts, and components in acceptable quantities and quality from our suppliers. Certain raw materials and parts and components for our products are currently available from a limited number of suppliers and, as a result, we may have limited control over pricing, availability, and delivery schedules. If we are unable to purchase a sufficient quantity of raw materials and parts and components on a timely basis, we could face disruptions in our production and incur delays while we attempt to engage alternative suppliers. Fewer suppliers could result from unimproved or worsening economic or commercial conditions, potentially increasing our rejections for poor quality and requiring us to source unknown and distant supply alternatives. Any such disruption or conditions could harm our business and adversely impact our results of operations.. Reductions in the availability of energy supplies or an increase in energy costs may increase our operating costs. We use various gases, including natural gas, at our manufacturing facilities and use diesel fuel in vehicles to transport our products to customers and to operate our plant equipment. An outbreak or escalation of hostilities between the U.S. and any foreign power and, in particular, prolonged conflicts could result in a real or perceived shortage of petroleum and/or natural gas, which could result in an increase in the cost of natural gas or energy in general. Extreme weather conditions and natural occurrences such as. 11. Table of Contents. hurricanes, tornadoes, and floods could result in varying states of disaster and a real or perceived shortage of petroleum and/or natural gas, including rationing thereof, potentially resulting in an increase in natural gas prices or general energy costs. Speculative trading in energy futures in the world markets could also result in an increase in natural gas and general energy cost. Future limitations on the availability (including limitations imposed by increased regulation or restrictions on rail, road, and pipeline transportation of energy supplies) or consumption of petroleum products and/or an increase in energy costs, particularly natural gas for plant operations and diesel fuel for vehicles and plant equipment, could have an adverse effect upon our ability to conduct our business cost effectively.. Our manufacturer's warranties expose us to product replacement and repair claims. Depending on the product, we warrant our workmanship and certain materials (including surface coatings, primers, sealants, and interior linings), parts, and components pursuant to express limited contractual warranties. We may be subject to significant warranty claims in the future such as multiple claims based on one defect repeated throughout our production process or claims for which the cost of repairing or replacing the defective part, component or material is highly disproportionate to the original price. These types of warranty claims could result in significant costs associated with product recalls or product repair or replacement, and damage to our reputation.. Increasing insurance claims and expenses could lower profitability and increase business risk. We are subject to potential liability for claims alleging property damage and personal and bodily injury or death arising from the use of or exposure to our products, especially in connection with products we manufacture that our customers install along U.S. highways or that our customers use to transport hazardous, flammable, toxic, or explosive materials. As policies expire, premiums for renewed or new coverage may further increase and/or require that we increase our self-insured retention or deductibles. The Company maintains primary coverage and excess coverage policies. If the number of claims or the dollar amounts of any such claims rise in any policy year we could suffer additional costs associated with accessing our excess coverage policies. Also, an increase in the loss amounts attributable to such claims could expose us to uninsured damages if we were unable or elected not to insure against certain claims because of high premiums or other reasons. While our liability insurance coverage is at or above levels based on commercial norms in our industries, an unusually large liability claim or a string of claims coupled with an unusually large damage award could exceed our available insurance coverage. In addition, the availability of, and our ability to collect on, insurance coverage is often subject to factors beyond our control, including positions on policy coverage taken by insurers. If any of our third-party insurers fail, cancel, or refuse coverage, or otherwise are unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage, then our risk exposure and our operational expenses may increase and the management of our business operations would be disrupted. Moreover, any accident or incident involving our industries in general or us or our products specifically, even if we are fully insured, contractually indemnified, or not held to be liable, could negatively affect our reputation among customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly affect the cost and availability of insurance in the future.. Many of our products are sold to leasing companies, contractors, distributors, and installers who may misuse, abuse, improperly install or improperly or inadequately maintain or repair such products thereby potentially exposing the Company to claims that could increase our costs and weaken our financial condition. The products we manufacture are designed to work optimally when properly assembled, operated, installed, repaired, and maintained. When this does not occur, the Company may be subjected to claims or litigation associated with personal or bodily injuries or death and property damage.. Risks related to our operations outside of the U.S., particularly Mexico, could decrease our profitability. Our operations outside of the U.S. are subject to the risks associated with cross-border business transactions and activities. Political, legal, trade, economic change or instability, criminal activities, or social unrest could limit or curtail our respective foreign business activities and operations, including the ability to hire and retain employees. Violence in Mexico associated with drug trafficking is continuing. We have not, to date, been materially affected by any of these risks, but we cannot predict the likelihood of future effects from such risks or any resulting adverse impact on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Many items manufactured by us in Mexico are sold in the U.S. and the transportation and import of such products may be disrupted. Some foreign countries where we operate have regulatory authorities that regulate products sold or used in those countries. If we fail to comply with the applicable regulations within the foreign countries where we operate, we may be unable to market and sell our products in those countries. In addition, with respect to operations in foreign countries, unexpected changes in laws, rules, and regulatory requirements; tariffs and other trade barriers, including regulatory initiatives for buying goods produced in America; more stringent or restrictive laws, rules, and regulations relating to labor or the environment; adverse tax consequences; price exchange controls; and restrictions or regulations affecting cross-border rail and vehicular traffic could limit operations affecting production throughput and making the manufacture and distribution of our products less timely or more difficult. Furthermore, any material change in the quotas, regulations, or duties on imports imposed by the U.S. government and agencies, or on exports by the government of Mexico or its agencies, could affect our ability to export products that we manufacture in Mexico. Because we have operations outside the U.S., we could be adversely affected by final judgments of non-compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or import/export rules and regulations and similar anti-corruption, anti-bribery, or import/export laws of other countries.. U.S. government actions relative to the federal budget, taxation policies, government expenditures, U.S. borrowing/debt ceiling limits, and trade policies could adversely affect our business and operating results. Periods of impasse, deadlock, and last minute accords may continue to permeate many aspects of U.S. governance, including federal government budgeting and spending, taxation, U.S. deficit spending and debt ceiling adjustments, and international commerce. Such periods could negatively. 12. Table of Contents. impact U.S. domestic and global financial markets thereby reducing customer demand for our products and services and potentially result in reductions in our revenues, increased price competition, or increased operating costs, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We produce many of our products at our manufacturing facilities in Mexico. Our business benefits from free trade agreements such as the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\"). NAFTA and future import taxes are currently under scrutiny by the current U.S. administration. On August 6, 2017, the U.S. Trade Representative opened the renegotiation of NAFTA with the governments of Canada and Mexico. The U.S. administration has periodically indicated a willingness to exercise its right to withdraw from NAFTA after a six month notice period. If a preference for bi-lateral trade agreements emerges, then wholesale renegotiation of, or a U.S. withdrawal from, NAFTA could result and cause significant change or interruption to commercial transactions between the U.S. and Mexico that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Equipment failures or extensive damage to our facilities, including as might occur as a result of natural disasters, could lead to production, delivery, or service curtailments or shutdowns, loss of revenue or higher expenses. We operate a substantial amount of equipment at our production facilities, several of which are situated in tornado and hurricane zones and on navigable waterways in the U.S. An interruption in production capabilities or maintenance and repair capabilities at our facilities, as a result of equipment failure or acts of nature, including non-navigation orders resulting from excessive or low-water conditions issued from time to time by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers on one or more U.S. rivers that serve our facilities, could reduce or prevent our production, delivery, service, or repair of our products and increase our costs and expenses. A halt of production at any of our manufacturing facilities could severely affect delivery times to our customers. While we maintain emergency response and business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters that could disrupt our business, we cannot provide assurances that our plans would fully protect us from the effects of all such disasters. In addition, insurance may not adequately compensate us for any losses incurred as a result of natural or other disasters, which may adversely affect our financial condition. Any significant delay in deliveries not otherwise contractually mitigated by favorable force majeure provisions could result in cancellation of all or a portion of our orders, cause us to lose future sales, and negatively affect our reputation and our results of operations.. Because we do not have employment contracts with our key management employees, we may not be able to retain their services in the future. Our success depends on the continued services of our key management employees, none of whom currently have an employment agreement with us. Although we have historically been largely successful in retaining the services of our key management, we may not be able to do so in the future. The loss of the services of one or more key members of our management team could result in increased costs associated with attracting and retaining a replacement and could disrupt our operations and result in a loss of revenues.. Repercussions from terrorist activities or armed conflict could harm our business. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts, and other armed conflict involving the U.S. or its interests abroad may adversely affect the U.S. and global economies, potentially preventing us from meeting our financial and other obligations. In particular, the negative impacts of these events may affect the industries in which we operate. This could result in delays in or cancellations of the purchase of our products or shortages in raw materials, parts, or components. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues, and costs.. Violations of or changes in the regulatory requirements applicable to the industries in which we operate may increase our operating costs. Our railcar manufacturing and leasing businesses are regulated by multiple governmental regulatory agencies  such as the USEPA; TC; the USDOT and the administrative agencies it oversees, including the FRA, the PHMSA, and the Research and Special Programs Administration; and industry authorities such as the AAR. All such agencies and authorities promulgate rules, regulations, specifications, and operating standards affecting railcar design, configuration, and mechanics; maintenance, and rail-related safety standards for railroad equipment, tracks, and operations, including the packaging and transportation of hazardous, flammable, explosive, and toxic materials.. Revised regulations implemented in 2015 pertaining to the transportation of flammable materials by rail remain in effect. These regulatory changes materially impact: the rail industry as a whole; railroad operations; older and newer tank railcars that met or exceeded prior regulatory requirements and standards; future tank railcar specifications; and market decisions relative to capital investment in rail products.. Our Inland Barge operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Coast Guard; the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board; the U.S. Customs Service; the Maritime Administration of the U.S. Department of Transportation; and private industry organizations such as the American Bureau of Shipping. These organizations establish safety criteria, investigate vessel accidents and recommend improved safety standards.. Our Construction Products Group is subject to regulation by the USDOT; the FHWA; and various state highway departments and administrative agencies. These organizations, with participation from AASHTO, establish certain standards, specifications, and product testing and test performance criteria related to the manufacture of our highway products.. 13. Table of Contents. Our storage and distribution containers are subject to regulation by the PHMSA and the FMCSA, both of which are part of the USDOT. These agencies promulgate and enforce rules and regulations pertaining, in part, to the manufacture of containers that are used in the storage, transportation, and distribution of regulated and non-regulated substances.. Our operations are also subject to regulation of health and safety matters by the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration. We believe we employ appropriate precautions to protect our employees and others from workplace injuries and harmful exposure to materials handled and managed at our facilities.. Future regulatory changes or the determination that our products or processes are not in compliance with applicable requirements, rules, regulations, specifications, standards, or product testing criteria might result in additional operating expenses, administrative fines or penalties, product recalls or loss of business that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations.. Some of our customers place orders for our products (i) in reliance on their ability to utilize tax benefits or tax credits such as accelerated depreciation or the production tax credit for renewable energy, or (ii) to utilize federal-aid programs that allow for purchase price reimbursement or other government funding or subsidies, any of which benefits, credits, or programs could be discontinued or allowed to expire without extension thereby reducing demand for certain of our products. There is no assurance that the U.S. government will reauthorize, modify, or otherwise not allow the expiration of such tax benefits, tax credits, subsidies, or federal-aid programs that may include funding of the purchase or purchase price reimbursement of certain of our products. In instances where such benefits, credits, subsidies, or programs are allowed to expire or are otherwise modified or discontinued, the demand for our products could decrease, thereby creating the potential for a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. We may be required to reduce the value of our long-lived assets and/or goodwill, which would weaken our financial results. We periodically evaluate for potential impairment the carrying values of our long-lived assets to be held and used. The carrying value of a long-lived asset to be held and used is considered impaired when the carrying value is not recoverable through undiscounted future cash flows and the fair value of the asset is less than the carrying value. Fair value is determined primarily using the anticipated cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the risks involved or market quotes as available. Impairment losses on long-lived assets held for sale are determined in a similar manner, except that fair values are reduced commensurate with the estimated cost to dispose of the assets. In addition, goodwill is required to be tested for impairment annually or on an interim basis whenever events or circumstances change indicating that the carrying amount of the goodwill might be impaired. Impairment losses related to reductions in the value of our long-lived assets or our goodwill could weaken our financial condition and results of operations.. We may incur increased costs due to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Under varying circumstances, we may seek to minimize these risks through the use of interest rate hedges and similar financial instruments and other activities, although these measures, if and when implemented, may not be effective. Any material and untimely changes in interest rates or exchange rates could result in significant losses to us.. Railcars as a significant mode of transporting freight could decline, experience a shift in types of modal transportation, and/or certain railcar types could become obsolete. As the freight transportation markets we serve continue to evolve, the use of railcars may decline in favor of other more economic transportation modalities or the number of railcars needed to transport current or an increasing volume of goods may decline. Features and functionality specific to certain railcar types could result in those railcars becoming obsolete as customer requirements for freight delivery change or as regulatory mandates are promulgated that affect railcar design, configuration, and manufacture.. Business, regulatory, and legal developments regarding climate change may affect the demand for our products or the ability of our critical suppliers to meet our needs. We have followed the current debate over climate change in general, and the related science, policy discussion, and prospective legislation. Some scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as greenhouse gases (\"GHGs\") which include carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the Earth's atmosphere and other climate changes. Additionally, we periodically review the potential challenges and opportunities for the Company that climate change policy and legislation may pose. However, any such challenges or opportunities are heavily dependent on the nature and degree of climate change legislation and the extent to which it applies to our industries.. In response to an emerging scientific and political consensus, legislation and new rules to regulate emission of GHGs has been introduced in numerous state legislatures, the U.S. Congress, and by the USEPA. Some of these proposals would require industries to meet stringent new standards that may require substantial reductions in carbon emissions. While Trinity cannot assess the direct impact of these or other potential regulations, it does recognize that new climate change protocols could affect demand for its products and/or affect the price of materials, input factors, and manufactured components. Potential opportunities could include greater demand for structural wind towers and certain types of railcars, while potential challenges could include decreased demand for certain types of railcars or other products and higher energy costs. Other adverse consequences of climate change could include an increased frequency of severe weather events and rising sea levels that could affect operations at our manufacturing facilities, the price of insuring company assets, or other unforeseen disruptions of the Company's operations, systems, property, or equipment.. 14. Table of Contents. Ultimately, when or if these impacts may occur cannot be assessed until scientific analysis and legislative policy are more developed and specific legislative proposals begin to take shape.. Changes in accounting standards or inaccurate estimates or assumptions in the application of accounting policies could adversely affect our financial results. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported value of our assets or liabilities and financial results and are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective, and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. Accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and our independent registered public accounting firm) may amend or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. For a further discussion of some of our critical accounting policies and standards and recent accounting changes, see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.. Shortages of skilled labor could adversely impact our operations. We depend on skilled labor in the manufacture, maintenance, and repair of our products. Some of our facilities are located in areas where demand for skilled laborers may exceed supply. Shortages of some types of skilled laborers, such as welders, could restrict our ability to maintain or increase production rates and could increase our labor costs.. Some of our employees belong to labor unions, and strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect our operations. We are a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions at some of our operations in the U.S. and all of our operations in Mexico. Disputes with regard to the terms of these agreements or our potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions in the future could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns by the affected workers.  We cannot be assured that our relations with our workforce will remain positive or that union organizers will not be successful in future attempts to organize at some of our facilities. If our workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, or other employees were to become unionized, or the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and higher ongoing labor costs. In addition, we could face higher labor costs in the future as a result of severance or other charges associated with lay-offs, shutdowns, or reductions in the size and scope of our operations or difficulties of restarting our operations that have been temporarily shuttered.. From time to time we may take tax positions that the Internal Revenue Service or other taxing jurisdictions may contest. We have in the past and may in the future take tax positions that the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") or other taxing jurisdictions may challenge. We are required to disclose to the IRS as part of our tax returns particular tax positions in which we have a reasonable basis for the position but not a \"more likely than not\" chance of prevailing. If the IRS successfully contests a tax position that we take, we may be required to pay additional taxes or fines which may not have been previously accrued that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.. Our inability to produce and disseminate relevant and/or reliable data and information pertaining to our business in an efficient, cost-effective, secure, and well-controlled fashion may have significant negative impacts on confidentiality requirements and obligations and trade secret or other proprietary needs and expectations and, therefore, our future operations, profitability, and competitive position. We rely on information technology infrastructure and architecture, including hardware, network, software, people, and processes to provide useful and confidential information to conduct our business in the ordinary course, including correspondence and commercial data and information interchange with customers, suppliers, legal counsel, governmental agencies, and consultants, and to support assessments and conclusions about future plans and initiatives pertaining to market demands, operating performance, and competitive positioning. In addition, any material failure, interruption of service, compromised data security, or cybersecurity threat could adversely affect our relations with suppliers and customers, place us in violation of confidentiality and data protection laws, rules, and regulations, and result in negative impacts to our market share, operations, and profitability. Security breaches in our information technology could result in theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of confidential data, trade secret, or other proprietary or intellectual property that could adversely impact our future results.. The Company could potentially fail to successfully integrate new businesses or products into its current business. The Company routinely engages in the search for growth opportunities, including assessment of merger and acquisition prospects in new markets and/or products. Any merger or acquisition into which the Company enters is subject to integration into the Company's businesses and culture. If such integration is unsuccessful to any material degree, such lack of success could result in unexpected claims or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, or financial condition.. The use of social and other digital media (including websites, blogs and newsletters) to disseminate false, misleading and/or unreliable or inaccurate data and information about our Company could create unwarranted volatility in our stock price and losses to our stockholders and could adversely affect our reputation, products, business, and operating results. The number. 15. Table of Contents. of people relying on social and other digital media to receive news, data, and information is increasing. Social and other digital media can be used by anyone to publish data and information without regard for factual accuracy. The use of social and other digital media to publish inaccurate, offensive, and disparaging data and information coupled with the increasingly frequent use of strong language and hostile expression, may influence the public's inability to distinguish between what is true and what is false and could obstruct an effective and timely response to correct inaccuracies or falsifications. Such use of social and other digital media could result in unexpected and unsubstantiated claims concerning the Company in general or our products, our leadership or our reputation among customers and the public at large, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and potentially having a material adverse effect on our business, operations, or financial condition.. Our inability to sufficiently protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. Our patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, proprietary processes, and other intellectual property are important to our success. We rely on patent, copyright and trademark law, and trade secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements with others to protect our intellectual property rights. Our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, and trade secrets may be exposed to market confusion, commercial abuse, infringement, or misappropriation and possibly challenged, invalidated, circumvented, narrowed, or declared unenforceable by countries where our products and services are made available, but where the laws may not protect our intellectual property rights as fully as in the U.S. Such instances could negatively impact our competitive position and adversely affect our business. Additionally, we could be required to incur significant expenses to protect our intellectual property rights.. The price for our common stock is subject to volatility which may result in losses to our shareholders. During the two year period ended December 31, 2017, the closing sales price of our stock varied between a high of $37.88 per share and a low of $15.64 per share. Stock price volatility affects the price at which our common stock can be sold and could subject our stockholders to losses. The trading price of our common stock is likely to remain volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this report and other factors including:. • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly and annual results or operations;. • changes in recommendations by securities analysts;. • changes in composition and perception of the investors who own our stock and other securities;. • changes in ratings from national rating agencies on publicly or privately owned debt securities;. • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;. • news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the industries in which we operate;. • actual or expected economic conditions that are perceived to affect our Company;. • perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors;. • fluctuations in prices of commodities that our customers produce and transport;. • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors;. • changes in government regulations and policies and interpretations of those regulations and policies;. • shareholder activism; and. • dissemination of false or misleading statements through the use of social and other media to discredit our Company, disparage our products, or to harm our reputation.. Additionally, in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been initiated. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. We cannot predict the outcome of any such litigation. The initiation of any such litigation or an unfavorable result could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See Note 18 Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information on any material pending legal proceedings other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our business, including the current status of the Company's Highway Products litigation.. Risks Related to the Proposed Spin-Off of our Infrastructure-Related Businesses. Until the distribution occurs, Trinity has the sole discretion to change the terms of the distribution and, whether or not we complete the spin-off, our ongoing businesses may be adversely affected and we may be subject to certain risks and consequences as a result of pursuing the spin-off. Completion of the spin-off will be contingent upon customary closing conditions, including, among other things, finalization of the entity structure of the Infrastructure Company, finalization of the capital structure of the two companies, the effectiveness of appropriate filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and final approval from Trinity's Board of Directors. Until the distribution occurs, Trinity will have the sole and absolute discretion to determine and change the terms of the distribution, including the establishment of the record date and distribution date. In addition, Trinity may decide at any time not to proceed with the spin-off. Additionally, whether or not the spin-off is completed, Trinity's businesses may be adversely affected and may be subject to certain risks and consequences as a result of pursuing the spin-off, including, among others, the following:. 16. Table of Contents. • execution of the proposed spin-off will require significant time and attention from our management, which may distract them from the operation of our businesses and the execution of other initiatives that may be beneficial to us;. • our employees may be distracted and we may experience increased difficulties in attracting, retaining, and motivating them, due to uncertainty about their future roles with each of the separate companies pending the completion of the spin-off;. • we will be required to pay significant costs and expenses relating to the spin-off, such as legal, accounting, financial advisor and other professional fees, whether or not the spin-off is completed;. • we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets if we fail to complete the spin-off, including possible declines in our stock price; and. • if the spin-off is completed, certain key management will be employed by the Infrastructure Company and not Trinity.. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or the price of our common stock.. Uncertainty related to the spin-off may lead customers and other parties with whom we currently do business to terminate or attempt to negotiate changes in existing business relationships, or consider entering into business relationships with other parties. These disruptions could have a material and adverse effect on Trinity or the Infrastructure Company's businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The effect of such disruptions could be exacerbated by any delays in the completion of the spin-off.. We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the spin-off, and the spin-off may adversely affect our business. We may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from the spin-off, or such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. The spin-off is expected to provide the following benefits, among others:. • allow each company to more effectively pursue its own distinct operating priorities and strategies, and enable the management of both companies to pursue separate opportunities for long-term growth and profitability, and to recruit, retain and motivate employees pursuant to compensation policies which are appropriate for their respective lines of business;. • permit each company to concentrate its financial resources solely on its own operations, providing greater flexibility to invest capital in its business in a time and manner appropriate for its distinct strategy and business needs; and. • enable investors to evaluate the merits, performance and future prospects of each company's businesses and to invest in each company separately based on these distinct characteristics.. We may not achieve these and other anticipated benefits for a variety of reasons, including, among others: (a) the spin-off will require significant amounts of management's time and effort, which may divert management's attention from operating and growing our business; (b) following the spin-off, Trinity's stock price may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other events particular to one or more of Trinity's products than if the Infrastructure Company were still a part of Trinity; and (c) following the spin-off, our operational and financial profile will change such that our diversification of revenue sources will diminish, and our results of operations, cash flows, working capital, and financing requirements may be subject to increased volatility than prior to the spin-off. Additionally, we may experience unanticipated competitive developments, including changes in the conditions of our rail-related and infrastructure related businesses' respective markets that could negate the expected benefits from the spin-off. In addition, we will incur one-time costs in connection with the spin-off that may exceed our estimates and negate some of the benefits we expect to achieve. If we do not realize some or all of the benefits expected to result from the spin-off, or if such benefits are delayed, the business, financial condition, and results of operations and cash flows of Trinity could be adversely affected.. Either the Infrastructure Company or Trinity may fail to perform under various transaction agreements that will be executed as part of the spin-off. The Infrastructure Company and Trinity will enter into certain agreements, such as a separation and distribution agreement, a transition services agreement, and certain other agreements, which will provide for the performance by each company for the benefit of the other for a period of time after the spin-off. If either company is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, including its indemnification obligations, the other company could incur operational difficulties or losses.. Potential indemnification liabilities to the Infrastructure Company pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement could materially and adversely affect Trinity's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The separation and distribution agreement, among other things, will provide for indemnification obligations designed to make Trinity financially responsible for certain liabilities that may exist relating to its business activities. If Trinity is required to indemnify the Infrastructure Company under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement, Trinity may be subject to substantial liabilities.. In connection with the spin-off, the Infrastructure Company will indemnify Trinity for certain liabilities. However, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure Trinity against the full amount of such liabilities, or that the Infrastructure Company's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future. The Infrastructure. 17. Table of Contents. Company will agree to indemnify Trinity for certain liabilities. However, third parties could also seek to hold Trinity responsible for liabilities that the Infrastructure Company has agreed to assume, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from the Infrastructure Company will be sufficient to protect Trinity against the full amount of such liabilities, or that the Infrastructure Company will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. In addition, the Infrastructure Company's insurers may attempt to deny coverage to Trinity for liabilities associated with certain occurrences of indemnified liabilities prior to the spin-off.. If the proposed spin-off of our infrastructure-related businesses is completed, the trading price of our common stock will decline. We expect the trading price of our common stock immediately following the spin-off to be lower than immediately preceding the spin-off, as the trading price of our common stock will no longer reflect the value of our infrastructure-related businesses.. Following the spin-off, the value of your common stock in: (a) Trinity and (b) the Infrastructure Company may collectively trade at an aggregate price less than what Trinity's common stock might trade at had the spin-off not occurred. The common stock of: (a) Trinity and (b) the Infrastructure Company that you may hold following the spin-off may collectively trade at a value less than the price at which Trinity's common stock might have traded had the spin-off not occurred. Reasons for this potential difference include the future performance of either Trinity or the Infrastructure Company as separate, independent companies, and the future stockholder base and market for Trinity's common stock and those of the Infrastructure Company and the prices at which these shares individually trade.. If the distribution of shares of the Infrastructure Company, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, Trinity stockholders and Trinity could be subject to significant tax liability. In connection with the distribution of shares in the Infrastructure Company, we intend to obtain a private letter ruling from the IRS (the \"IRS Ruling\") and opinions from tax advisors (the \"Tax Opinions\"), in each case substantially to the effect that, among other things, the distribution of shares in the Infrastructure Company, together with certain related transactions, will qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). The IRS Ruling and the Tax Opinions will rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations, and undertakings from Trinity and the Infrastructure Company, including those regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. Notwithstanding the IRS Ruling and the Tax Opinions, the IRS could determine that the distribution or any such related transaction is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distribution should be taxable for other reasons, including if the IRS were to disagree with the conclusions in the Tax Opinions that are not covered by the IRS Ruling.. If the distribution is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a stockholder of Trinity that has received shares of the Infrastructure Company common stock in the distribution would be treated as having received a distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair value of such Infrastructure Company shares on the distribution date and could incur significant income tax liabilities. Such distribution would be taxable to such stockholder as a dividend to the extent of Trinity's current and accumulated earnings and profits. Any amount that exceeded Trinity's earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of such stockholder's tax basis in its shares of Trinity stock, with any remaining amount being taxed as capital gain. Trinity would recognize a taxable gain in an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the fair market value of the shares of the Infrastructure Company common stock held by Trinity on the distribution date over Trinity's tax basis in such shares. In addition, if certain related transactions fail to qualify for tax-free treatment under federal, state and local tax law and/or foreign tax law, Trinity could incur significant tax liabilities under U.S. federal, state, local and/or foreign tax law.. The spin-off and related internal restructuring transactions may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal dividend requirements. The spin-off could be challenged under various state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. Fraudulent conveyances or transfers are generally defined to include transfers made or obligations incurred with the actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud current or future creditors or transfers made or obligations incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value when the debtor was insolvent, or that rendered the debtor insolvent, inadequately capitalized, or unable to pay its debts as they become due. An unpaid creditor or an entity acting on behalf of a creditor (including, without limitation, a trustee or debtor-in-possession in a bankruptcy by us or the Infrastructure Company or any of our respective subsidiaries) may bring a lawsuit alleging that the spin-off or any of the related transactions constituted a constructive fraudulent conveyance. If a court accepts these allegations, it could impose a number of remedies, including, without limitation, voiding the distribution and returning the Infrastructure Company's assets or the Infrastructure Company's shares and subject us to liability.. The distribution of the Infrastructure Company common stock is also subject to state corporate distribution statutes. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law (\"DGCL\"), a corporation may only pay dividends to its stockholders either (i) out of its surplus (net assets minus capital) or (ii) if there is no such surplus, out of its net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. Although Trinity intends to make the distribution of the Infrastructure Company common stock entirely out of surplus, Trinity cannot ensure that a court would reach the same conclusion in determining the availability of funds for the separation and the distribution to our stockholders.. 18. Table of Contents. Additional Information. Our Internet website address is www.trin.net. Information on the website is available free of charge. We make available on our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments thereto, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The contents of our website are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document we file and any reference to our website is intended to be an inactive textual reference only."
