[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to numerous complex laws, and changes in, uncertainty regarding, or adverse application of these laws could negatively affect our business.. The products and services we provide to our clients are subject to numerous complex federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those described under the heading \"Legal and Regulatory\" in Item 1 of this Form10-K. Many of these laws (such as ERISA, the ACA and state healthcare laws, and other federal and state employment tax laws, such as wage and hour laws, anti-discrimination laws, etc.) may not result in a consistent approach at the federal, state and local level, may not specifically address PEOs and co-employment relationships or may allow significant regulatory interpretation and discretion in enforcement. As a result, there is uncertainty in how they might be applied to our operations and those of our clients and WSEs.. New laws, changes in existing laws, or adverse application or interpretation  of new or existing laws regarding our co-employment relationship with our clients and WSEs (in courts, agencies or otherwise) could reduce or eliminate the need for, or benefit provided by, some or all of the services we provide or require us to make significant changes in our methods of doing business and providing services. Regulatory changes could also affect the extent and type of employee benefits employers can or must provide employees, the amount and type of taxes employers and employees are required to pay or the time within which employers must remit taxes to applicable tax authorities. Any such new laws, changes in laws or adverse application or interpretation of laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in, or uncertainty regarding, the TCJA, ACA and other health care reforms or tax reforms could materially impact our business and we are not able to predict the direction or ultimate impact of such reforms on our business operations.. For example, the newly passed TCJA will result in sweeping changes to the taxation of individuals and businesses in 2018 and beyond. Federal implementation of these tax reforms, and the changes to state tax laws that may result from federal tax reforms, may materially change the way in which we provide payroll tax services for our clients, as well as the business incentives that matter to our clients. Our ability to timely comply with the numerous changes under the TCJA and to continue to provide services that take advantage of new business incentives created by the TCJA could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain clients.. Similarly, changes to and continued uncertainty regarding the implementation and future of health care reform in the United States under the ACA, any successor to the ACA, or related or similar state laws, has the potential to substantially change the health insurance market for SMBs and how such employers provide health insurance to their employees, which could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain our clients. For example, the TCJA's elimination of the ACA individual mandate tax penalty beginning in 2019 may reduce the number of WSEs who participate in our insurance programs, and proposed rule changes by the DOL may increase the availability of \"association health plans,\" which may compete with the health plans we provide, or impact the operation of other types of health plans, including the plans that we sponsor. There may also be significant additional changes to the ACA in 2018 and beyond, including the potential modification, amendment or repeal of the ACA. Tax reform changes brought about by the TCJA and changes to federal health care laws, including to the ACA, could also result in new or amended laws being introduced at the state or local level. In addition, state tax regulators may engage in their own tax reforms as a result of the passage of the TCJA. Our ability to comply with, and adapt our product offerings to take advantage of, any such changes could require significant additional costs and divert management attention, which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. If we are not recognized as an employer of worksite employees under federal and state regulations, or are deemed to be an insurance agent or third-party administrator, we and our clients could be adversely impacted.. In order to sponsor our employee benefit plan offerings for WSEs, we must qualify as an employer of WSEs for certain purposes under the Code and ERISA. In addition, our status as an employer is important for purposes of ERISA's preemption of certain state laws. The definition of employer under various laws is not uniform, and under both the Code and ERISA, the term is defined in part by complex multi-factor tests.. Generally, these tests are designed to evaluate whether an individual is an independent contractor or employee and they provide substantial weight to whether a purported employer has the right to direct and control the details of an individual's work. Some factors that the IRS has considered important in the past in evaluating this issue have included the employer's degree of behavioral control (the extent of instructions, training and the nature of the work), financial control and the economic aspects of the work relationship, the intent of the parties, as evidenced by the specific benefit,. 12. RISK FACTORS. contract, termination and other similar arrangements between the parties and the on-going versus project-oriented nature of the work to be performed. However, a definitive judicial interpretation of \"employer\" in the context of PEOs has not been established. For ERISA purposes, for example, courts have held that test factors relating to ability to control and supervise an individual are less important, while the U.S. Department of Labor has issued guidance that certain entities in the HR outsourcing industry do not qualify as common law employers for ERISA purposes. Although we believe that we qualify as an employer of WSEs under ERISA and the U.S. Department of Labor has not provided guidance otherwise, we are not able to predict the outcome of any future regulatory challenge.. If we were found not to be an employer for ERISA purposes, it could adversely affect the manner in which we are able to provide employee benefits to WSEs. Similarly, to qualify for favorable tax treatment under the Code, certain employee benefit plans, such as 401(k) retirement plans and cafeteria plans must be established and maintained by an employer for the exclusive benefit of its employees. All of our 401(k) retirement plans are operated pursuant to guidance provided by the IRS and we have received favorable determination letters from the IRS confirming the qualified status of the plans. However, the IRS uses its own complex, multi-factor test to ascertain whether an employment relationship exists between a worker and a purported employer. Although we believe that we qualify as an employer of WSEs under the Code, we cannot assure you that the IRS will not challenge this position or continue to provide favorable determination letters. Moreover, the IRS' 401(k) guidance and qualification requirements are not applicable to the operation of our cafeteria plans.. If we are not recognized as an employer under the Code or ERISA, we may be required to change the method by which we report and remit payroll taxes to the tax authorities and the method by which we provide, or discontinue providing, certain employee benefits to WSEs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We must also qualify as co-employers of WSEs and comply with state licensing, certification and registration requirements for the regulation of PEOs. Forty-two states have passed such laws and other states may implement such requirements in the future. While we believe that we satisfy these state regulations, these requirements vary from state to state and change frequently and if we are not able to satisfy existing or future licensing requirements or other applicable regulations in any state, we may be prohibited from doing business in that state.. In addition, state regulatory authorities generally impose licensing requirements on companies acting as insurance agents or third-party administrators, such as those that handle health or retirement plan funding and claim processing. We do not believe that our current activities require such licensing, but if regulatory authorities in any state determine that we are acting as an insurance agent or as a third-party administrator, we may need to hire additional personnel to manage regulatory compliance and become obligated to pay annual regulatory fees, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our co-employment relationship with our worksite employees exposes us to business risks.. We are the co-employer of our WSEs. As the co-employer of our WSEs, we assume certain obligations and responsibilities of an employer. For instance, we are responsible for providing health benefits to our WSEs regardless of whether the cost of providing benefits exceeds the fees received from our clients. However, the extent of our responsibility for other aspects of our co-employer relationship with our WSEs remains subject to regulatory uncertainty at the state and federal level. For example, under certain circumstances, we may be found to be responsible for paying salaries, wages and related payroll taxes of our WSEs, even if our clients have not timely remitted payments to us.. We co-employ people in our clients' workplaces. Our ability to control the workplace environment of our clients is limited. As a co-employer of WSEs, there is a possibility that we may be subject to liability for violations of employment or other laws and other acts and omissions by our clients or WSEs even if we do not participate in any such acts or omissions. State and federal regulations interpreting co-employment relationships are in a constant state of flux and we cannot predict when changes will occur or forecast whether any particular future changes will be favorable to our operations or not.. We seek to mitigate these risks through our client agreements and insurance coverage. Our agreements with our clients establish the contractual division of responsibilities between us and our clients and that they will indemnify us for any liability attributable to their own or our WSEs' conduct, however, we may not be able to effectively enforce or collect on these contractual obligations. In addition, we maintain insurance coverage, including workers' compensation, directors and officers and employment practices liability insurance coverage, to limit our and our clients' exposure to various WSE related claims, but we are still responsible for any deductible layer under such insurance and such insurance generally excludes coverage for claims relating to the classification of employees as exempt or non-exempt,. 13. RISK FACTORS. other wage and hour issues, and employment contract disputes, among other things. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be sufficient in amount or scope to cover all claims that may be asserted against us and for which we are unable to obtain indemnification from our clients.. Negative publicity relating to events or activities attributed to us, our corporate employees, WSEs, or others associated with any of these parties, whether or not justified, may tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. In addition, if our brand is negatively impacted, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, including creating challenges in retaining clients or attracting new clients and hiring and retaining employees.. Cyber-attacks or security breaches could result in reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims or damage to our reputation.. Maintaining the security of our IT infrastructure and the confidentiality of our clients' and WSEs' personal data and information is paramount for us and our clients. Clients using our technology platform rely on the security of our IT infrastructure to ensure the reliability of our products and services and the protection of sensitive client and WSE data. We use and store a large amount of personal and confidential information about our clients, WSEs and colleagues, including bank account and social security numbers, tax return data, certain medical information, retirement account information and payroll data. Threats to security can take a variety of forms. Hackers may develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack our networks and data centers. Sophisticated organizations or individuals may launch targeted attacks to gain access to our networks, applications and confidential data, such as phishing attacks.. We have implemented technical, physical, and administrative controls in order to protect personal and confidential information entrusted to us. In providing our services, we also rely on third-party service providers, such as insurance carriers, to process personal and confidential information about our clients, WSEs and employees. Through contractual provisions, we take steps to require that our service providers protect such information. However, we cannot guarantee the performance of our service providers and, ultimately, despite all of our efforts, threats to our IT infrastructure and our clients' and WSEs' data as these threats continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication. While we, and our service providers, have programs in place to prevent, detect, and respond to data security incidents, these programs and our collective efforts may not always succeed. As a result, we may be required to invest significant additional resources to modify and enhance our information security to protect against such incidents.. Any cyber attack, unauthorized intrusion, insider theft, malicious software infiltration, network disruption or denial of service could result in disruption to our systems and services, product development delays, and the disclosure or misuse of personal and confidential information. This could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, result in liability or regulatory sanction or a loss of confidence in our ability to provide our services, or harm relationships with current or potential clients. Further, the cost of remediating any attack, breach or disclosure and costs associated with responding to litigation or regulatory investigations could have a material adverse effect on our business or reduce our operating margins. Maintaining the security of confidential WSE information is particularly important to us as a sponsor of employee benefit plans with access to certain personal health information. The manner in which we manage protected health information (PHI) is subject to HIPAA and the HITECH Act. To the extent possible, the health information we possess is anonymized and accessed through a secured third-party database. Although we maintain, and actively seek to improve, security measures and infrastructure designed to protect against unauthorized access to this sensitive data, cyber attacks and security breaches remain a significant threat to our business. Any security breach could result in the access, public disclosure, loss or theft of the confidential and personal data, including PHI, of our clients and WSEs, which could negatively affect our ability to attract new clients, cause existing clients to terminate their agreements with us, result in reputational damage and subject us to lawsuits, regulatory fines, or other actions or liabilities which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. We are subject to various federal and state laws, rules, and regulations relating to the collection, use, and security of personal and confidential information. For example, most states and the District of Columbia have enacted breach notification laws that may require us to notify WSEs, clients, employees, or regulators in the event of unauthorized access to or disclosure of personal or confidential information. Complying with these various laws, and any new laws or regulations that may be promulgated, could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Changes or inconsistencies in interpretations of these laws and regulations and/or changes in enforcement priorities may result in significant penalties or liability for non-compliance.. 14. RISK FACTORS. Unexpected changes in workers' compensation and health insurance claims by worksite employees could harm our business.. Our insurance costs, which make up a significant portion of our overall costs, are impacted significantly by our WSEs' health and workers' compensation insurance claims experience. We establish reserves to provide for the estimated costs of reimbursing our workers' compensation and health insurance carriers under our insurance policies, relying on third-party actuaries and our own experience, but the volume and severity of claims activity is inherently unpredictable. If we experience a sudden or unexpected increase or decrease in claim activity, our costs could increase or decrease, respectively. An increase in claim activity could make it more difficult to secure replacement insurance policies on competitive terms once our current policies expire. Estimating these reserves involves our consideration of a number of factors and requires significant judgment. If there is an unexpected increase or decrease in the severity or frequency of claims activity of our WSEs (including activity arising from any of a number of factors that affect claim activity levels, such as changes in general economic conditions, claims differing significantly from expectations, and terrorism, disease outbreaks or other catastrophic events), or if we subsequently receive updated information indicating insurance claims were higher or lower than previously estimated and reported, our insurance costs could be higher or lower, respectively, in that period or subsequent periods as we adjust our reserves accordingly, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have experienced both favorable and unfavorable insurance cost variability due to claims activity in the past and could have similar or worse experience in the future.. Some of our health insurance policies include risk-based policies that can limit our exposure for individual claims and our maximum aggregate claims exposure in each policy year. Refer to Note 1 in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further discussion of these policies. We have experienced variability, and may experience variability in the future, in the amounts that we are required to pay for group health insurance expenses incurred by WSEs within our deductible layer under these risk-based policies, based on continually changing trends in the frequency and severity of claims. These historical trends may change, and other seasonal trends and variability may develop, which may make it more difficult for us to manage this aspect of our business and which may have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our results of operations may fluctuate as a result of numerous factors, many of which are outside of our control.. Our future operating results are subject to quarterly variations based upon a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control, including, without limitation:. • the volume and severity of health and workers' compensation insurance claims by our WSEs, recorded as part of our insurance costs, and the timing of related claims information provided by our insurance carriers,. • the amount and timing of our other insurance costs, operating expenses and capital expenditures,. • the number of our new clients initiating service and the number of WSEs employed by each new client,. • the retention, loss or merger of existing clients,. • reduction in the number of WSEs employed by existing clients,. • the timing of client payments and payment defaults by clients,. • costs associated with our acquisitions of companies, assets and technologies,. • payments or drawdowns on our credit facility,. • unanticipated expenses, such as litigation or other dispute-related settlement payments,. • expenses we incur for geographic and service expansion,. • changes in laws or adverse interpretation of laws increasing our regulatory compliance costs,. • changes in our effective tax rate, and. • the impact of new accounting pronouncements.. 15. RISK FACTORS. Many of the above factors are discussed in more detail elsewhere in this \"Risk Factors\" section and in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Many of these factors are outside our control, and the variability and unpredictability of these factors have in the past and could in the future cause us to fail to meet our expectations and the expectations of investors and any industry analysts who cover our shares, which could result in a decline in our share price and reduced liquidity in our shares. In addition, the occurrence of one or more of these factors might cause our results of operations to vary widely, which could lead to negative impacts on our margins, short-term liquidity or ability to retain or attract key personnel, and could cause other unanticipated issues, including a downgrade of our shares by or change in opinion of industry analysts and a related decline in our share price. Accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter and annual comparisons of our revenues, results of operations and cash flows may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance.. Any failure in our business systems could reduce the quality of our business services, which could harm our reputation and expose us to liability.. Our business systems rely on the complex integration of numerous hardware and software subsystems to manage client transactions including the processing of employee, payroll and benefits data. These systems can be disrupted by, among other things, equipment failures, computer server or systems failures, network outages, malicious acts, software errors or defects, vendor performance problems, power failures, natural disasters, terrorist actions or similar events. Any delay or failure in our systems that impairs our ability to communicate electronically with our clients, employees, vendors or the government agencies to which we make tax and other filings on behalf of WSEs, or our ability to store or process data could harm our reputation and our business. For example, errors in our products and services, such as the erroneous denial of healthcare benefits or delays in making payroll, could expose our clients to liability claims from improperly serviced WSEs, for which we may be contractually obligated to provide indemnification.. In addition, the software, hardware and networking technologies we use must be frequently and rapidly upgraded in response to technological advances, competitive pressures consumer expectations and new and changing laws. To succeed, we need to effectively develop, or license from third parties, and integrate these new technologies as they become available to improve our services. We rely on enterprise software applications licensed from third parties that are upgraded from time to time. Any difficulties we encounter in adapting application upgrades to our systems could harm our performance, delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of new services.. New products or upgrades may not be released according to schedule, or may contain defects when released. Difficulties in integrating new technologies could result in adverse publicity, loss of sales, delay in market acceptance of our services, or client claims against us, any of which could harm our business. We could also incur substantial costs in modifying our services or infrastructure to adapt to these changes. In addition, we could lose market share if our competitors develop technologically superior products and services.. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that could, if not remediated, result in a material misstatement in our financial statements.. In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017, we have identified and concluded that we continue to have a material weakness relating to our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Refer to Part II, Item 9A in this Form 10-K for more details. While the material weakness described in that section creates a reasonable possibility that an error in financial reporting may go undetected, after extensive review and the performance of additional analysis and other procedures, no material adjustments, restatement or other revisions to our previously issued financial statements were required.. As further described in Part II, Item 9A of this form 10-K below, we are taking specific steps to remediate a material weakness that we identified by implementing and enhancing our control procedures. This material weakness will not be remediated until all necessary internal controls have been implemented, repeatably tested and determined to be operating effectively. In addition, we may need to take additional measures, including system migration and automation, to address the material weakness or modify the remediation steps, and we cannot be certain that the measures we have taken, and expect to take, to improve our internal controls will be sufficient to address the issues identified, to ensure that our internal controls are effective or to ensure that the identified material weakness will not result in a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may distract our officers and employees and require material cost to implement new. 16. RISK FACTORS. process or modify our existing processes. Moreover, other material weaknesses or deficiencies may develop or be identified in the future. If we are unable to correct material weaknesses or deficiencies in internal controls in a timely manner, our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information accurately and within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, will be adversely affected. This failure could negatively affect the market price and trading liquidity of our common stock, lead to delisting, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, subject us to civil and criminal investigations and penalties, and generally materially and adversely impact our business and financial condition.. We have acquired, and may in the future acquire, other businesses and technologies, which can divert management's attention and create integration risks and other risks for our business.. We have completed numerous acquisitions of other businesses and technologies, and we expect that we will continue to grow through similar future acquisitions. Such acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including:. • identifying attractive acquisition candidates,. • over-valuing and over-paying for acquisition candidates,. • integrating the operations, systems, technologies, services and personnel of the acquired companies, including the migration of WSEs from an acquired company's technology platform and legal service providers to ours,. • establishing or maintaining internal controls, procedures and policies relating to the acquired systems and processes, including the potential for actual or perceived control weaknesses associated with or arising from the acquisitions and integration of acquired systems,. • diversion of management's attention from other business concerns,. • litigation resulting from activities of the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, clients, former stockholders and other third parties,. • insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with the acquisitions and unanticipated liabilities of the acquired companies,. • insufficient indemnification or security from the selling parties for legal liabilities that we may assume in connection with our acquisitions,. • entering markets in which we have no prior experience and may not succeed,. • potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies, and. • impairment of relationships with clients and employees of the acquired companies or our clients and employees as a result of the integration of acquired operations and new management personnel.. If we fail to integrate newly acquired businesses effectively, we might not achieve the growth, service enhancement or operational efficiency objectives of the acquisitions, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed.. We may pay for acquisitions by issuing additional shares of our common stock, which would dilute our stockholders, or by issuing debt, which could include terms that restrict our ability to operate our business or pursue other opportunities and subject us to significant debt service obligations. We may also use significant amounts of cash to complete acquisitions. To the extent that we complete acquisitions in the future, we likely will incur future amortization expenses associated with the acquired assets. We may also record significant amounts of intangible assets, including goodwill, which could become impaired in the future. Any such impairment charges would adversely affect our results of operations.. 17. RISK FACTORS. Our SMB clients are particularly affected by volatility in the financial and economic environment, which could harm our business.. Our clients are small and mid-sized businesses that we believe can be particularly susceptible to changes in the level of overall economic activity in the markets in which we operate. During periods of weak economic conditions, small business failures tend to increase and employment levels tend to decrease. Current or potential clients may react to weak or forecasted weak economic conditions by reducing employee headcount or wages, bonuses or benefits levels, any of which would affect our revenues, and may affect our margins, because we may be unable to reduce our operating expenses sufficiently enough or quickly enough to offset the drop in revenues. It is difficult for us to forecast future demand for our services due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting the direction, strength and length of economic cycles. These conditions may affect the willingness of our clients and potential clients to pay outside vendors for services like ours, and may impact their ability to pay their obligations to us on time, or at all.. For example, as a result of macroeconomic factors, interest rates may become more volatile. Increased interest rate volatility could also negatively impact our clients' and prospects' access to credit. If businesses have difficulty obtaining credit, business growth and new business formation may be impaired, which could also harm our business. Even modest downturns in economic activity on a regional or national level could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. In addition, it can be difficult to predict the impact of developments that are perceived as positive for SMBs. For example, the passage of the TCJA in December 2017, may create unexpected challenges or business incentives for our clients and fail to translate into increased demand for our services.. Our business and operations have experienced rapid growth in the past, and if we are unable to effectively manage future growth, our business and results of operations may suffer.. We have experienced rapid growth and have significantly expanded our operations in recent periods, which has placed a strain on our management and our administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Managing this growth will continue to require further refinement to our operational, financial and management controls and reporting systems and procedures while we simultaneously seek to effectively recruit, integrate, train and motivate new corporate employees, retain our existing corporate employees, maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture, effectively execute our business plan, satisfy the requirements of our existing clients, acquire new clients, and enhance the quality and scope of our services. These activities will require significant operating and capital expenditures and allocation of valuable management and employee resources, and we expect that our growth will continue to place significant demands on our management and on our operational and financial infrastructure, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our costs and expenses may increase more than we expect them to, which in turn could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If our vertical strategy is unsuccessful, or if we are unable to manage our sales force effectively, we may not be able to grow our business at the rate that we anticipate.. We have developed an industry vertical business strategy and we plan to continue to devote significant resources and time in pursuit of this strategy. Under our industry vertical strategy, our sales force, product development, and service teams are focused on specific business sectors. We cannot assure you that our industry vertical approach will resonate with our existing and prospective clients, that we will target the right industries, that our vertical products will have all of the features most valuable to existing and prospective clients in those industries, or that we will implement our strategy in a timely and effective manner. If our vertical strategy is unsuccessful, our business may not grow at the rate that we anticipate, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We have experienced sales force attrition in the past and we rely on a well-trained sales force to promote our industry vertical strategy and sell our solutions. Competition for skilled sales personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, training and retaining qualified sales personnel, or that our newly hired sales personnel, including our new sales leader, will function effectively, either individually or as a group. In addition, our newly hired sales personnel are typically not productive for some period of time following their hiring. This results in increased near-term costs to us relative to the sales contributions of these newly hired sales personnel. If we are unable to effectively train our sales force and benefit from greater productivity of our sales representatives, or if our sales force is otherwise unable to sell our solutions as we anticipate, our revenues likely will not increase at the rate that we anticipate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 18. RISK FACTORS. Most of our clients are concentrated in certain geographies and a relatively small number of industries, making us vulnerable to downturns in those geographies and industries.. Most of our clients are concentrated in certain geographies and operate in a relatively small number of industries, including the technology, life sciences, not-for-profit, professional services and financial services industries. As a result, if any of those geographic regions or specific industries suffers a downturn, the portion of our business attributable to clients in that region or industry could be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. We are subject to legal proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes.. We are subject to claims, suits, government investigations, and proceedings arising from the ordinary course of our business. Refer to Note 13 in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information about the legal proceedings we are currently involved in and future proceedings that we may face. Current and future legal proceedings may result in substantial costs and may divert management's attention and resources, which may seriously harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Changes in our income tax positions or adverse outcomes resulting from on-going or future tax audits, which could harm our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects.. Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Our provision for income taxes, results of operations and cash flows may be impacted if any of our tax positions are challenged and successfully disputed by the tax authorities. In determining the adequacy of our tax provision, we assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes that could result if our tax positions were challenged by the IRS and other tax authorities. The tax authorities in the U.S. regularly examine our income and other tax returns. Refer to Note 12 in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional details regarding our on-going tax examinations and disputes. The ultimate outcome of tax examinations and disputes cannot be predicted with certainty. Should the IRS or other tax authorities assess additional taxes as a result of these or other examinations, we may be required to record charges to operations that could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.. Adverse changes in our insurance coverage, or in our relationships with key insurance carriers, could harm our business.. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain competitive health and workers' compensation coverage options and insurance rates through well-known insurance carriers. If we are unable to maintain competitive insurance rates or obtain popular and desirable coverage plans through well-known insurance carriers, it could affect our ability to attract and retain clients, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Where we sponsor insurance coverage and we are not responsible for any deductibles, our carriers set the premiums and the rates set by our carriers on these policies may not be competitive. Even where we sponsor insurance under which we are responsible for deductibles, we may not be able to control costs through the deductible layer in a way that would make our rates competitive.. In addition, broad adoption of our services in certain geographies or industries may make it more difficult for us to obtain competitive health and/or workers' compensation insurance rates due to concentration of clients within a particular geography or industry. The loss of any one or more of our key insurance vendors in these areas, or our inability to partner with certain vendors that are better-known or more desirable to our clients or potential clients, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. There is significant competition for our clients and clients may terminate our services based on a variety of factors that are difficult for us to control, which can negatively impact our business.. We regularly experience client attrition due to a variety of factors, including cost, client merger and acquisition activity, increases in administrative and insurance service fees, client business failure, effects of competition and clients deciding to bring their HR administration in-house. Our standard client service agreement can be cancelled by us or by the client without penalty with 30 days' prior written notice. Clients who intend to cease doing business with us often elect to do so effective as of the beginning of a calendar year. As a result, we have historically experienced our largest concentration of client attrition in the first quarter of each year. In addition, we experience higher levels of client attrition in connection with renewals of the health insurance coverage we sponsor for WSEs in the event that such renewals result in increased costs. If we were to experience client attrition in excess of our historic annual attrition rate, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 19. RISK FACTORS. We believe the principal competitive factors in our market include client satisfaction, ease of client setup and on-boarding, breadth and depth of benefit plans, vertical market expertise, total cost of service, brand awareness and reputation, ability to innovate and respond to client needs rapidly, online and mobile solutions, and subject matter expertise. If we are unable to develop products that appeal to our clients, and that respond to the specific needs of our clients, on a cost-effective basis, our overall client satisfaction may decline and our reputation may suffer, which could lead us to experience greater rates of attrition and lower rates for on-boarding new clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The terms of our credit facility may restrict our current and future operations, which would impair our ability to respond to changes in our business and to manage our business.. Our credit facility contains, and any future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us subject to customary exceptions, including restricting our ability to:. • incur, assume or guarantee additional debt,. • pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock,. • incur or assume liens,. • make loans, investments and acquisitions,. • engage in sales of assets and subsidiary stock,. • enter into sale-leaseback transactions,. • enter into certain transactions with affiliates,. • enter into certain hedging agreements,. • enter into new lines of business,. • prepay certain indebtedness,. • transfer all or substantially all of our assets or enter into merger or consolidation transactions with another person, and. • enter into agreements that prohibit the incurrence of liens or the payment by our subsidiaries of dividends and distributions.. Our failure to comply with these restrictions and the other terms and conditions under our credit facility could result in a default, which in turn could result in the termination of the lenders' commitments to extend further credit to us under our credit facility and acceleration of a substantial portion of our indebtedness then outstanding under our credit facility. If that were to happen, we may not be able to repay all of the amounts that would become due under our indebtedness or refinance our debt, which could materially harm our business and force us to seek bankruptcy protection.. Atairos, our largest stockholder, may have significant influence over our Company, and the existing ownership of capital stock, and thus the voting control, remains concentrated in our executive officers, directors and their affiliates, which limits your ability to influence corporate matters.. On February 1, 2017, an entity affiliated with Atairos Group, Inc. (together with its affiliates, \"Atairos\") became our largest stockholder when it acquired the shares of TriNet common stock previously held by General Atlantic. In connection with this transaction, we appointed Michael J. Angelakis, the Chairman and CEO of Atairos, to our board of directors and agreed to nominate Mr. Angelakis or another designee of Atairos reasonably acceptable to our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee for election at future annual meetings until Atairos' beneficial ownership falls below 15% of our common stock. As of February 20, 2018, Atairos beneficially owned approximately 28% of our outstanding common stock, and all of our directors, officers and their affiliates, including Atairos, beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 38% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, of the foregoing, Atairos, particularly when acting with our executive officers, directors and their affiliates who beneficially owned in the aggregate, approximately 38% of our outstanding common stock, will be able to exert substantial influence on all matters requiring. 20. RISK FACTORS. stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership could limit the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us.. Our industry is highly competitive, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or improve our results of operations.. We face significant competition on a national and regional level from other professional employer organizations, as well as other existing, and potential, companies and industries that service, or may in the future service, client HR needs. Refer to the heading \"Competition\" under Item 1, Business, above for more details. Our competitors, regardless of industry, may have greater marketing and financial resources than we have, and may be better positioned than we are in certain markets. Increased competition in our industry could result in price reductions or loss of market share, any of which could harm our business. We expect that we will continue to experience competitive pricing pressure.. Moreover, we may not be successful in convincing potential clients that the use of our services is a superior, cost-effective means of satisfying their HR obligations relative to the way in which they currently satisfy these obligations either by themselves or by using the services of our competitors. If we cannot compete effectively against other professional employer organizations or against the alternative means by which companies meet their HR obligations, or if we are unable to convince clients or potential clients of the advantages of our offerings, our market share and business may suffer, resulting in a material, adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations."
