[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. You should carefully consider these risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K and other reports and documents filed by us with the SEC. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or not presently deemed material by us may also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following events occur, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risk factors presented below are those we believe to be the principal risk factors associated with our Company given our investment objectives, investment policies and capital structure.. 30. Risks Relating to our Business and Structure. Global capital markets could enter a period of severe disruption and instability. These market conditions have historically and could again have a materially adverse effect on debt and equity capital markets in the United States, which could have a materially negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The U.S. and global capital markets have experienced periods of disruption characterized by the freezing of available credit, a lack of liquidity in the debt capital markets, significant losses in the principal value of investments, the re-pricing of credit risk in the broadly syndicated credit market, the failure of certain major financial institutions and general volatility in the financial markets. During these periods of disruption, general economic conditions deteriorated with material and adverse consequences for the broader financial and credit markets, and the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole, and financial services firms in particular, was reduced significantly. These conditions may reoccur for a prolonged period of time or materially worsen in the future. In addition, signs of deteriorating sovereign debt conditions in Europe and concerns of economic slowdown in China create uncertainty that could lead to further disruptions and instability. We may in the future have difficulty accessing debt and equity capital, and a severe disruption in the global financial markets, deterioration in credit and financing conditions or uncertainty regarding U.S. government spending and deficit levels, European sovereign debt, Chinese economic slowdown or other global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Further downgrades of the U.S. credit rating, impending automatic spending cuts or another government shutdown could negatively impact our liquidity, financial condition and earnings.. Recent U.S. debt ceiling and budget deficit concerns have increased the possibility of additional credit-rating downgrades and economic slowdowns, or a recession in the United States. Although U.S. lawmakers passed legislation to raise the federal debt ceiling on multiple occasions, ratings agencies have lowered or threatened to lower the long-term sovereign credit rating on the United States. In the future, the U.S. government may not be able to meet its debt payments unless the federal debt ceiling is raised. If legislation increasing the debt ceiling is not enacted, as needed, and the debt ceiling is reached, the U.S. federal government may stop or delay making payments on its obligations, which could negatively impact the U.S. economy and our portfolio companies. In addition, the impact of the federal debt ceiling or any further downgrades to the U.S. government's sovereign credit rating or its perceived creditworthiness could adversely affect the U.S. and global financial markets and economic conditions. Absent further quantitative easing by the Federal Reserve, these developments could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. In the past, disagreement over the federal budget has caused the U.S. federal government to shut down for periods of time. Continued adverse political and economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Global economic, political and market conditions may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability.. The current worldwide financial market situation, as well as various social and political tensions in the U.S. and around the world, may contribute to increased market volatility, may have long-term effects on the U.S. and worldwide financial markets, and may cause economic uncertainties or deterioration in the U.S. and worldwide. The global capital markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption during the economic downturn that began in mid-2007, and the U.S. economy was in a recession for several consecutive calendar quarters during the same period. In 2010, a financial crisis emerged in Europe, triggered by high budget deficits and rising direct and contingent sovereign debt, which created concerns about the ability of certain nations to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. Risks resulting from such debt crisis, including any austerity measures taken in exchange for bailout of certain nations, and any future debt crisis in Europe or any similar crisis elsewhere could have a detrimental impact on the global economic recovery, sovereign and non-sovereign debt in certain countries and the financial condition of financial institutions generally. In June 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union (\"Brexit\"), and, subsequently, on March 29, 2017, the U.K. government began the formal process of leaving the European Union, which is set to occur on March 29, 2019. Brexit has created political and economic uncertainty and instability in the global markets (including currency and credit markets), and especially in the United Kingdom and the European Union, and this uncertainty and instability may last indefinitely. Because of the election results in the U.K. in June 2017, there is increased uncertainty on the timing of Brexit. There is continued concern about national-level support for the Euro and the accompanying coordination of fiscal and wage policy among European Economic and Monetary Union member countries. In addition, the fiscal and monetary policies of foreign nations, such as Russia and China, may have a severe impact on the worldwide and U.S. financial markets.. 31. As a result of the 2016 U.S. election, the Republican Party currently controls both the executive and legislative branches of government, which increases the likelihood that legislation may be adopted that could significantly affect the regulation of U.S. financial markets. Areas subject to potential change, amendment or repeal include the Dodd-Frank Act and the authority of the Federal Reserve and the Financial Stability Oversight Council. The United States may also potentially withdraw from or renegotiate various trade agreements and take other actions that would change current trade policies of the United States. We cannot predict the effects of these or similar events in the future on the U.S. economy and securities markets or on our investments. We monitor developments and seek to manage our investments in a manner consistent with achieving our investment objective, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so.. We may not be able to operate our business successfully or generate sufficient revenue to make or sustain distributions to our stockholders.. We were formed in June 2013. Our Adviser was formed in August 2013. We commenced operations in March 2014. As a result, we are subject to many of the business risks and uncertainties associated with recently formed businesses, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objective and that the value of your investment could decline substantially. As a BDC, we are subject to the regulatory requirements of the SEC, in addition to the specific regulatory requirements applicable to BDCs under the 1940 Act and RICs under the Code. In addition, our Adviser is subject to the regulatory requirements applicable to registered investment advisers under the Advisers Act. We and our Adviser have limited experience operating or advising under this regulatory framework, and we may incur substantial additional costs, and expend significant time or other resources operating under this regulatory framework.. We are dependent upon our executive officers and our Adviser's senior investment team and members of its Investment Committee, in particular, Messrs. Labe and Srivastava, for our success and upon our Adviser's access to such individuals pursuant to the Staffing Agreement. If our Adviser were to lose such access, our ability to achieve our investment objective could be significantly harmed.. Our Adviser has entered into the Staffing Agreement with TPC. Pursuant to the Staffing Agreement, TPC has made and will continue to make, subject to the terms of the Staffing Agreement, its investment and portfolio management and monitoring teams available to our Adviser. We believe that the Staffing Agreement (i) provides us with access to deal flow generated by TPC in the ordinary course of its business; (ii) provides us with access to TPC's investment professionals, including its senior investment team led by Messrs. Labe and Srivastava, and TPC's non-investment employees; and (iii) commits certain key senior members of TPC's Investment Committee to serve as members of our Adviser's Investment Committee. TPC is obligated under the Staffing Agreement to allocate investment opportunities among its affiliates fairly and equitably over time in accordance with its allocation policy. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of our Adviser's senior investment team and our executive officers to achieve our investment objective. We cannot assure you that TPC will fulfill its obligations under the Staffing Agreement or its allocation policy. Further, the Staffing Agreement may be terminated with 60 days' prior written notice, and we cannot assure you that the Staffing Agreement will not be terminated by TPC or that our Adviser will continue to have access to the professionals and Investment Committee of TPC or its information and deal flow. The loss of any such access would limit our ability to achieve our investment objective and operate as we anticipate. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our business model depends, in part, upon TPC's relationships with a select group of leading venture capital investors. Any inability of TPC to maintain or develop these relationships, or the failure of these relationships to result in referrals of investment opportunities for us, could materially and adversely affect our business.. We depend, in part, upon TPC to maintain industry relationships, including with a select group of leading venture capital investors, and we utilize these relationships to source and identify potential investment opportunities, although this group of leading venture capital investors, which may be modified from time to time, is not obligated to provide us with referrals for investment opportunities. If TPC fails to maintain or develop such relationships, or if we fall out of favor with such venture capital investors, it could decrease our access to these investors or their support and we may not be able to grow our investment portfolio. We can offer no assurance that these relationships will result in any investment opportunities for us in the future. In addition, any harm to the reputation of TPC and/or its select group of leading venture capital investors or their relationships could decrease our deal flow and the outlook of our investments which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 32. Our success depends on the ability of TPC and our Adviser to attract and retain qualified personnel in a competitive environment.. Our growth requires that TPC and our Adviser retain and attract new investment and administrative personnel in a competitive market. Their ability to attract and retain personnel with the requisite credentials, experience and skills depends on several factors including, but not limited to, their and our reputations and their ability to offer competitive wages, benefits and professional growth opportunities. Many of the entities with whom they compete for experienced personnel, including investment funds, have greater resources than they have.. We may not replicate the historical results achieved by TPC or members of its senior investment team.. Our focus in making investments differs from that of TPC. For example, while TPC's portfolio consists primarily of providing financing to venture capital-backed companies across all stages of their development, including the venture growth stage, we pursue an investment strategy that is focused primarily on the venture growth stage. The profile and underwriting characteristics of an early stage venture capital-backed company are very different from those of a later stage venture capital-backed company and/or those of a venture growth stage company. Furthermore, within venture growth stage companies, the uses, structures and value propositions of debt financing vary considerably among companies and industries and require a high degree of venture lending and leasing expertise and technology, life sciences and other high growth industries knowledge, specialization and flexibility from a lender. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will replicate the historical results achieved by TPC or members of its senior investment team and we caution you that our investment returns could be substantially lower than the returns achieved by them in prior periods.. The nature of our approach to our business may lead to volatility and variability from period to period with respect to new originations. Our financial condition and results of operations depends upon our ability to effectively manage credit, deploy capital and grow our business.. Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on our Adviser's ability to manage our business and to grow our investments and earnings. This depends on our Adviser's ability to identify, invest in and monitor companies that meet our underwriting criteria. Furthermore, our Adviser may choose to slow or accelerate new business originations depending on market conditions, rate of investment of TPC's select group of leading venture capital investors, our Adviser's knowledge, expertise and experience, and other market dynamics. The achievement of our investment objective on a cost-effective basis depends upon our Adviser's execution of our investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us and, to a lesser extent, our access to financing on acceptable terms. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our Adviser's origination capabilities, management of the investment process, ability to provide efficient services and access to financing sources on acceptable terms. Our Adviser's senior investment team also has substantial responsibilities in connection with the management of TPC's investment vehicles and business segments. These activities may distract them from servicing new investment opportunities for us or slow our rate of investment. Any failure to manage our business and our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates and to make investments in venture growth stage companies along with our affiliates is restricted by the 1940 Act which may limit the scope of investment opportunities available to us.. We are prohibited under the 1940 Act from participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding voting securities will be our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act. In addition, any venture growth stage company in which we or TPC or its affiliates own 5% or more of its outstanding voting securities will be our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act. We are generally prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such affiliate without the prior approval of our independent directors and, in certain cases, the SEC. The 1940 Act also prohibits certain \"joint\" transactions with certain of our affiliates, which could include concurrent investments in the same company, without prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, the SEC. We are prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to any person that controls us or who owns more than 25% of our voting securities or certain of that person's affiliates, or entering into prohibited joint transactions with such persons, absent the prior approval of the SEC. As a result of these restrictions, we may be prohibited from (i) buying or selling any security (other than any security of which we are the issuer) from or to any company that is advised or managed by TPC or our Adviser or any of their affiliates or in which TPC or our Adviser or any of their affiliates also hold an interest or (ii) modifying any security that we hold in a company in which TPC or our Adviser or any of their affiliates also hold an interest without the prior approval of the SEC, which may limit our ability to take any action with respect to an existing investment or potential investment regardless of whether we conclude that the action may be in the best interest of our stockholders.. 33. Our investment strategy includes investments in secured loans, together with, in many cases, attached equity \"kickers\" in the form of warrant investments, and direct equity investments. TPC also manages, and in the future may manage, other investment funds, accounts or vehicles that invest or may invest in these investments. Although we are the primary vehicle through which TPC focuses its venture growth stage business, other vehicles sponsored or managed by our Adviser's senior investment team may also invest in venture growth stage companies or may have prior investments outstanding to our borrowers. As a result, members of our Adviser's senior investment team and Investment Committee, in their roles at TPC, may face conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities among us and other investment vehicles managed by TPC with similar or overlapping investment objectives in a manner that is fair and equitable over time and consistent with TPC's allocation policy. Generally, when a particular investment would be appropriate for us as well as one or more other investment funds, accounts or vehicles managed by our Adviser's senior investment team, such investment is apportioned by our Adviser's senior investment team in accordance with (1) our Adviser's internal conflict of interest and allocation policies, (2) the requirements of the Advisers Act and (3) certain restrictions under the 1940 Act regarding co-investments with affiliates. Such apportionment may not be strictly pro rata, depending on the good faith determination of all relevant factors, including differing investment objectives, diversification considerations and the terms of our or the respective governing documents of such investment funds, accounts or investment vehicles. These procedures could, in certain circumstances, limit whether or not a co-investment opportunity is available to us, the timing of acquisitions and dispositions of investments, the price paid or received by us for investments or the size of the investment purchased or sold by us.. We have co-invested and, in the future, may co-invest with TPC and/or investment funds, accounts and vehicles managed by TPC where doing so is consistent with our investment strategy as well as applicable law and SEC staff interpretations. We generally are only permitted to co-invest with TPC and/or such investment funds, accounts and vehicles where the only term that is negotiated is price and generally in accordance with SEC guidance. However, we, TPC and our Adviser have filed an exemptive application with the SEC to permit greater flexibility to negotiate the terms of co-investments with TPC and/or investment funds, accounts and investment vehicles managed by TPC in a manner consistent with our investment objective, positions, policies, strategies and restrictions as well as regulatory requirements and other pertinent factors. On February 28, 2018, the SEC issued a public \"notice\" with regard to the exemptive application that we filed. Assuming that no requests for a hearing are received by the SEC in response to the notice, we expect the SEC to issue the exemptive order after the notice period expires on March 26, 2018.. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities and we may not be able to compete effectively.. Our competitors include both existing and newly formed equity and debt focused public and private funds, other BDCs, investment banks, venture-oriented banks, commercial financing companies and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity and hedge funds. One or more of our competitors may have or develop relationships with TPC's select group of leading venture capital investors. We may also be limited in our ability to make an investment pursuant to the restrictions under the 1940 Act to the extent one or more of our affiliates has an existing investment with such obligor. Additionally, many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. For example, we believe some of our competitors may have access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which expose them to a wider variety of investments. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC or to the distribution and other requirements we must satisfy to maintain our ability to be subject to tax as a RIC.. The competitive pressures we face may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We do not compete primarily on the financing terms we offer and believe that some competitors make loans with rates that are comparable or lower than our rates. We may lose some investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure. However, if we match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure, we may experience decreased net interest income, lower yields and increased risk of credit loss. As a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we may not be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective.. 34. We will be subject to corporate-level income tax and may default under the Credit Facility if we are unable to qualify or maintain our qualification and tax treatment as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code.. To qualify for tax treatment as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code, we must meet certain source-of-income, asset diversification and distribution requirements. The distribution requirement for a RIC generally is satisfied if we distribute at least 90% of our net ordinary income and net realized short-term capital gains in excess of net realized long-term capital losses, if any, to our stockholders on an annual basis. Because we incur debt, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to qualify for tax treatment as a RIC. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for tax treatment as a RIC and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level income tax. To qualify as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of our qualification as a RIC. Because most of our investments are in private companies, any such dispositions may be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason and become subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate income taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of funds available for distributions to our stockholders and the amount of funds available for new investments.. We may need to raise additional capital to grow. If additional capital is not available or not available on favorable terms, our ability to grow will be impaired.. We may need additional capital to fund new investments or unfunded commitments and grow our portfolio of investments. We intend to access the capital markets periodically to issue debt or equity securities or borrow from financial institutions in order to obtain such additional capital. Unfavorable economic conditions could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. In addition, there may be fewer lenders familiar with, or willing to provide credit to, firms in our industry. The availability of debt from lenders may be more limited than it is for firms that are not in our industry due to the credit profile of our targeted borrowers or the structure and risk profile of our unrated loans. As a result, we may have difficulty raising additional capital in order to fund our loans and grow our business.. In order to maintain our ability to be subject to tax as a RIC, we will be required to distribute at least 90% of our net ordinary income and net realized short-term capital gains in excess of net realized long-term capital losses, if any, to our stockholders. As a result, these earnings will not be available to fund new investments. As a BDC, we generally are required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total borrowings and other senior securities, which includes all of our borrowings and any preferred stock that we may issue in the future, of at least 200%. This requirement limits the amount that we may borrow. This limitation may prevent us from incurring debt and require us to raise additional equity at a time when it may be disadvantageous for us to do so. We cannot assure you that debt and equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, and debt financings may be restricted by the terms of any of our outstanding borrowings.. In addition, shares of closed-end investment companies have recently traded at discounts to their net asset values. If our common stock trades below its net asset value, we will not be able to issue additional shares of our common stock at its market price without first obtaining the approval for such issuance from our stockholders and our independent directors. If additional funds are not available to us, we could be forced to curtail or cease new lending and investment activities and our net asset value could decline.. A reduction in the availability of new capital or an inability on our part to access the capital markets successfully could limit our ability to grow our business and execute our business strategy fully and could decrease our earnings, if any, which would have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before, or without, receiving cash representing such income.. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, in certain circumstances, we may be required to recognize taxable income prior to when we receive cash, such as the accrual of end-of-term payments, PIK, interest payments and/or OID. Our end-of-term payments are contractual and fixed interest payments due at the maturity date of the loan, including upon prepayment, and are a fixed percentage of the original principal balance of the loan. OID decreases our loan balance by an amount equal to the cost basis of the upfront warrant investment received and certain capitalized fees we receive in connection with our loan and is recognized by us as non-cash income over the life of the secured loan. Our secured loans generally include an end-of-term payment and/or PIK interest payment. Such payments, which could be significant relative to our overall investment activities are included in income before we receive any corresponding cash payment. We are also required to include in income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash, including OID.. 35. To the extent OID instruments, such as zero coupon bonds and PIK loans, constitute a significant portion of our income, investors will be exposed to typical risks associated with such income that are required to be included in taxable and accounting income prior to receipt of cash, including the following: (a) the higher interest rates of PIK loans reflect the payment deferral and increased credit risk associated with these instruments, and PIK instruments generally represent a significantly higher credit risk than coupon loans; (b) PIK loans may have unreliable valuations because their accruals require continuing judgments about the collectability of the deferred payments and the value of any associated collateral; (c) an election to defer PIK interest payments by adding them to loan principal increases our gross assets, thus increasing our Adviser's future base management fees, and increases future investment income, thus increasing the Adviser's future income incentive fees at a compounding rate; (d) market prices of zero-coupon or PIK securities are affected to a greater extent by interest rate changes and may be more volatile than securities that pay interest periodically and in cash; (e) because OID income is accrued without any cash being received by us, required cash distributions may have to be paid from offering proceeds or the sale of our assets without investors being given any notice of this fact; (f) the deferral of PIK interest increases the loan-to-value ratio, which is a measure of the riskiness of a loan; (g) even if the accounting conditions for income accrual are met, the borrower could still default when our actual payment is due at the maturity of the loan; (h) OID creates risk of non-refundable cash payments to the advisor our Adviser on-cash accruals that may never be realized; and (i) because OID will be included in our \"investment company taxable income\" for the year of the accrual, we may be required to make distributions to stockholders to satisfy the Annual Distribution Requirement applicable to RICs, even where we have not received any corresponding cash amount.. Since, in these cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the requirement to distribute at least 90% of our net ordinary income and net realized short-term capital gains in excess of net realized long-term capital losses, if any, to maintain our tax treatment as a RIC and to avoid a 4% U.S. federal excise tax on certain of our undistributed income. In such a case, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements. If we are not able to obtain sufficient cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for tax treatment as a RIC and thus be subject to corporate-level income tax.. You may not receive distributions or our distributions may not grow over time.. We intend to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Our ability to pay distributions might be materially and adversely affected by the impact of one or more of the risks described herein. Due to the asset coverage test applicable to us under the 1940 Act as a BDC, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our Board and will depend on our earnings, financial condition, maintenance of RIC status, compliance with applicable BDC, SBA regulations (when and if applicable) and such other factors as our Board may deem relevant from time to time. We cannot assure you that we will make distributions to our stockholders in the future.. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect our ability to, and the way in which we, raise additional capital. As a BDC, the necessity of raising additional capital may expose us to risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage.. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as \"senior securities,\" up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted as a BDC to issue senior securities in amounts such that our asset coverage ratio, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% of our gross assets less all liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities, after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous to us in order to repay a portion of our indebtedness. Also, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness would not be available for distributions to our common stockholders. If we issue senior securities, we will be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss.. We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock or warrant investments, options or rights to acquire our common stock that expire more than 120 days from issuance, at a price below then-current net asset value per share of our common stock if our Board determines that such sale is in our best interests, and if our stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price that, in the determination of our Board, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). If we raise additional funds by issuing common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, then the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time will decrease and you may experience dilution.. 36. Pending legislation may allow us to incur additional leverage.. As a BDC, under the 1940 Act we generally are not permitted to incur indebtedness unless immediately after such borrowing we have an asset coverage for total borrowings of at least 200% (i.e., the amount of debt may not exceed 50% of the value of our total assets or we may borrow an amount equal to 100% of net assets). The U.S. Senate recently introduced legislation which, if passed, would modify this section of the 1940 Act and increase the amount of debt that BDCs may incur by modifying the asset coverage percentage from 200% to 150%. As a result, we may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future and therefore your risk of an investment in us may increase.. We finance certain of our investments with borrowed money, which magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and increases the risk of investing in us.. We finance certain of our investments with borrowed money when we expect the return on our investment to exceed the cost of borrowing. As of December 31, 2017, we have $67.0 million of principal outstanding under our Credit Facility and $74.8 million of principal outstanding on our 2022 Notes. The use of leverage magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested. The use of leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique and increases the risks associated with investing in shares of our common stock. Lenders will have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders and we would expect such lenders to seek recovery against our assets in the event of a default. We may pledge up to 100% of our assets or the assets of a subsidiary under the terms of any debt instruments we may enter into with lenders. In addition, under the terms of the Credit Facility and the 2022 Notes and any borrowing facility or other debt instrument we may enter into in the future, we are or will likely be required to use the net proceeds of any investments that we sell to repay a portion of the amount borrowed under such facility or instrument before applying such net proceeds to any other uses. If the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause our net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged, thereby magnifying losses, potentially triggering mandatory debt payments or asset contributions under the Credit Facility or eliminating our stake in a leveraged investment. Similarly, any decrease in our revenue or income will cause our net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline would also negatively affect our ability to make distributions with respect to our common stock. Our ability to service any debt depends largely on our financial performance and is subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures.. As a BDC, we generally are required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total borrowings and other senior securities, which include all of our borrowings (other than potential leverage in future SBIC, subsidiaries, should we receive an SBIC license(s), subject to exemptive relief) and any preferred stock that we may issue in the future, of at least 200%. If this ratio declines below 200%, we will not be able to incur additional debt and could be required to sell a portion of our investments to repay some debt when it is otherwise disadvantageous for us to do so. This could have a material adverse effect on our operations, and we may not be able to make distributions. The amount of leverage that we employ depends on our Adviser's and our Board's assessment of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain credit at all or on terms acceptable to us.. In addition, the Credit Facility imposes, and any debt facilities we may enter into in the future may impose, financial and operating covenants that restrict our business activities, including limitations that hinder our ability to finance additional loans and investments or to make the distributions required to maintain our ability to be subject to tax treatment as a RIC under the Code.. We may default under the Credit Facility or the 2022 Notes or any future indebtedness or be unable to amend, repay or refinance any such facility on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In the event we default under the Credit Facility or the 2022 Notes or any future indebtedness or are unable to amend, repay or refinance any such future indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, our business could be materially and adversely affected as we may be forced to sell all or a portion of our investments quickly and prematurely at what may be disadvantageous prices to us in order to meet our outstanding payment obligations and/or support working capital requirements under the Credit Facility and the 2022 Notes or any future indebtedness, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, following any such default, the administrative agent under the Credit Facility could assume control of the disposition of any or all of our assets or restrict our utilization of any indebtedness, including the selection of such assets to be disposed and the timing of such disposition, including decisions with respect to our warrant investments, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Events of default under the Credit Facility include, among other things, (i) a payment default; (ii) a change of control; (iii) bankruptcy; (iv) a covenant default; and (v) our failure to maintain compliance with RIC provisions at all times.. 37. Because we use debt to finance certain of our investments, if market interest rates were to increase, our cost of capital could increase, which could reduce our net income. In addition, if the Credit Facility were to become unavailable, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Because we borrow money to finance certain of our investments, including under the Credit Facility, our net income will depend, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest those funds. As a result, we can offer no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates would not have a material adverse effect on our net income in the event we use debt to finance our investments. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds would increase, which could reduce our net income. In addition, if the Credit Facility were to become unavailable to us and attractive alternative financing sources were not available, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, a rise in the general level of interest rates typically leads to higher interest rates applicable to our secured loans. Accordingly, an increase in interest rates may result in an increase of our income and, as a result, an increase in the incentive fee payable to our Adviser.. Provisions in the Credit Facility and the 2022 Notes or any future indebtedness may limit our discretion in operating our business.. The Credit Facility and the 2022 Notes are, and any future indebtedness may be, backed by all or a portion of our assets on which the lenders may have a security interest. We may pledge up to 100% of our assets or the assets of our Financing Subsidiary and may grant a security interest in all of our assets under the terms of any debt instrument we enter into with lenders. Any security interests that we grant will be set forth in a security agreement and evidenced by the filing of financing statements by the agent for the lenders. Any restrictive provision or negative covenant in the Credit Facility, including diversification and eligibility requirements, or any of our future indebtedness limits or may limit our operating discretion, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A failure to comply with the restrictive provisions or negative covenants in the Credit Facility or any of our future indebtedness would or may result in an event of default and/or restrict our ability to control the disposition of our assets and our utilization of any indebtedness. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Contractual Obligations.\". Adverse developments in the credit markets may impair our ability to enter into any other future borrowing facility.. During the economic downturn in the United States that began in mid-2007, many commercial banks and other financial institutions stopped lending or significantly curtailed their lending activity. In addition, in an effort to stem losses and reduce their exposure to segments of the economy deemed to be high risk, some financial institutions limited refinancing and loan modification transactions and reviewed the terms of existing facilities to identify bases for accelerating the maturity of existing lending facilities. If these conditions recur, it may be difficult for us to enter into a new borrowing facility, obtain other financing to finance the growth of our investments or refinance any outstanding indebtedness on acceptable economic terms or at all.. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could fail to qualify as a BDC or be precluded from investing according to our current business strategy.. As a BDC, we may not acquire any assets other than \"qualifying assets\" unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. See \"Business - Regulation.\". We believe that most of the investments that we may acquire in the future will constitute qualifying assets. However, we may be precluded from investing in what we believe to be attractive investments if such investments are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 1940 Act. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could violate the 1940 Act provisions applicable to BDCs. As a result of such violation, specific rules under the 1940 Act could require us to dispose of investments at inappropriate times in order to come into compliance with the 1940 Act. If we need to dispose of such investments quickly, it could be difficult to dispose of such investments on favorable terms or at all. We may not be able to find a buyer for such investments and, even if we do find a buyer, we may have to sell the investments at a substantial loss. Any such outcomes would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. If we do not maintain our tax treatment as a BDC, we would be subject to regulation as a registered closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act. As a registered closed-end investment company, we would be subject to substantially more regulatory restrictions under the 1940 Act, which would significantly decrease our operating flexibility.. 38. Our investment portfolio is recorded at fair value, with our Board having final responsibility for overseeing, reviewing and approving, in good faith, its estimate of fair value and, as a result, there is uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments, which may impact our net asset value.. Most of our investments take the form of secured loans, warrant and direct equity investments that are not publicly traded. The fair value of loans and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable, and we value these investments at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board. Most, if not all, of our investments (other than cash and cash equivalents) are classified as Level 3 under ASC Topic 820. This means that our valuations are based on unobservable inputs and our own assumptions about how market participants would price the asset or liability in question. Inputs into the determination of the fair value of our investments require significant management judgment or estimation. We retain the services of one or more independent third-party valuation firms to review the valuation of these loans and other investments. The valuation for each portfolio investment, including our Level 3 investments, is reviewed at least annually by an independent third-party valuation firm. However, the Board does not intend to have de minimis investments of less than 1.0% of our gross assets (up to an aggregate of 10.0% of our gross assets) reviewed by an independent third-party valuation firm, given the expenses involved in connection therewith. The Board quarterly discusses valuations and determines, in good faith, the fair value of each investment in our portfolio based on the input of our Adviser, the independent third-party valuation firm and the Valuation Committee. The types of factors that our Board takes into account in determining the fair value of our investments generally include, as appropriate, such factors as yield, maturity and measures of credit quality, the enterprise value of the company, the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the company's ability to make payments and its earnings and discounted cash flow, our assessment of the support of their venture capital investors, the markets in which the company does business, comparisons to similar publicly traded companies and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these loans and other investments existed. Our net asset value could be materially and adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our loans and other investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such loans and other investments.. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results.. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including our originations and underwriting processes, the interest rate payable on the secured loans we acquire, any prepayment made on our secured loans, the timing and amount of any warrant or equity investment returns, the timing of any drawdowns requested by our borrowers, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. In light of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods.. We are an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act, and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are and we will remain an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act for up to five years following the completion of our initial public offering or until the earliest of (i) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our annual gross revenues exceed $1.07 billion, (ii) the last day of our fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the date of the first sale of our common equity securities pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act. (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt, or (iv) the date that we become a \"large accelerated filer\" as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act, which would occur if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter and we have been publicly reporting pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act for at least 12 months. For so long as we remain an emerging growth company we have taken and will continue to be able to take advantage of certain specified reduced disclosure and other requirements that are otherwise generally applicable to public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies\" including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. In addition, we have irrevocably opted-out of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. As a result, we comply with new or revised accounting standards on the same time frames as other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies.\" We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we will rely on some or all of these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. 39. Because of the exemptions from various reporting requirements provided to us as an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act, we may be less attractive to investors and it may be difficult for us to raise additional capital as and when we need it. Investors may be unable to compare our business with other companies in our industry if they believe that our financial accounting is not as transparent as other companies in our industry. If we are unable to raise additional capital as and when we need it, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, stockholders could lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock.. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure controls and procedures, are designed to prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, any testing by us conducted in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm (when undertaken, as noted below), may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or that may require prospective or retroactive changes to our consolidated financial statements or identify other areas for further attention or improvement. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors and lenders to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.. We are required to disclose changes made in our internal controls and procedures over financial reporting on a quarterly basis and our management is required to assess the effectiveness of these controls annually. However, for as long as we are an emerging growth company under the recently enacted JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years following the completion of our initial public offering. An independent assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls could detect problems that our management's assessment might not. Undetected material weaknesses in our internal controls could lead to financial statement restatements and require us to incur the expense of remediation.. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business or cause us to alter our business strategy.. We are subject to regulation by laws at the U.S. federal, state and local levels. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may change from time to time, and new laws, regulations and interpretations may also come into effect. Any such new or changed laws or regulations or any new or changed interpretations of existing laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Additionally, changes to the laws and regulations governing our operations related to permitted investments may cause us to alter our investment strategy in order to avail ourselves of new or different opportunities. Such changes could result in material differences to the strategies and plans set forth herein and may shift our investment focus to other types of investments in which our Adviser's senior investment team may have little or no expertise or experience. Any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We cannot predict how tax reform legislation will affect us, our investments, or our stockholders, and any such legislation could adversely affect our business.. Legislative or other actions relating to taxes could have a negative effect on us. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal Revenue Service and the U.S. Treasury Department. In December 2017, the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate passed tax reform legislation, which the President signed into law. Such legislation has made many changes to the Code, including significant changes to the taxation of business entities, the deductibility of interest expense, and the tax treatment of capital investment. We cannot predict with certainty how any changes in the tax laws might affect us, our stockholders, or our portfolio investments. New legislation and any U.S. Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions interpreting such legislation could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify for tax treatment as a RIC or the U.S. federal income tax consequences to us and our stockholders of such qualification, or could have other adverse consequences. Stockholders are urged to consult with their tax advisor regarding tax legislative, regulatory, or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in our securities.. 40. The effect of global climate change may impact the operations of our portfolio companies.. There may be evidence of global climate change. Climate change creates physical and financial risk and some of our portfolio companies may be adversely affected by climate change.  Extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions.  In December 2015 the United Nations, of which the U.S. is a member, adopted a climate accord (the \"Paris Agreement\") with the long-term goal of limiting global warming and the short-term goal of significantly reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The U.S. ratified the Paris Agreement, which entered into force on November 4, 2016; however, on August 4, 2017, the United States submitted communication to the United Nations regarding its intent to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and the earliest date for their complete withdrawal from the Paris Agreement is November 4, 2020. As a result, some of our portfolio companies may become subject to new or strengthened regulations or legislation that could increase their operating costs and/or decrease their revenues.. Our Board may change our investment objective, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval, the effects of which may be adverse.. Our Board has the authority, except as otherwise provided in the 1940 Act, to modify or waive certain of our operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. However, absent stockholder approval, we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or withdraw our election as, a BDC. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results and the market price of our common stock. Nevertheless, any such changes could materially and adversely affect our business and impair our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law and of our charter and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock.. The Maryland General Corporation Law, our charter and our bylaws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or make more difficult a change in control or the removal of our directors. We are subject to the Maryland Business Combination Act, or the \"Business Combination Act,\" the application of which is subject to and may not conflict with any applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. Our Board has adopted a resolution exempting from the Business Combination Act any business combination between us and any other person, subject to prior approval of such business combination by our Board, including approval by a majority of our directors who are not \"interested persons\" as such term is defined in the 1940 Act. If the resolution exempting business combinations is repealed or our Board does not approve a business combination, the Business Combination Act may discourage third-parties from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating such an offer. Our bylaws exempt from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, or the \"Control Share Acquisition Act,\" acquisitions of our common stock by any person. If we amend our bylaws to repeal the exemption from the Control Share Acquisition Act, the Control Share Acquisition Act also may make it more difficult for a third-party to obtain control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating such an offer. However, we will amend our bylaws to be subject to the Control Share Acquisition Act only if our Board determines that it would be in our best interests and if the SEC staff does not object to our determination that our being subject to the Control Share Acquisition Act does not conflict with the 1940 Act. The SEC staff has issued informal guidance setting forth its position that certain provisions of the Control Share Acquisition Act would, if implemented, violate Section 18(i) of the 1940 Act.. Our charter and bylaws contain other provisions that may make it difficult for a third-party to obtain control of us, including supermajority vote requirements for business transactions that are not approved by a majority of our \"continuing directors,\" provisions of our charter classifying our Board in three classes serving staggered three-year terms, and provisions of our charter authorizing our Board to classify or reclassify shares of our stock in one or more classes or series and to cause the issuance of additional shares of our stock, and to amend our charter, without stockholder approval, to increase or decrease the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue. These provisions, as well as other provisions of our charter and bylaws, may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders.. 41. Our Adviser or our Administrator can resign upon 60 days' notice and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, or at all, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our Adviser has the right under the Investment Advisory Agreement to resign at any time upon 60 days' written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. Similarly, our Administrator has the right under the Administration Agreement to resign at any time upon 60 days' written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. In addition, our Administrator has entered into a sub-administration agreement with Conifer Asset Solutions LLC to provide certain sub-administrative services to us on behalf of our Administrator. If our Adviser, our Administrator or our sub-administrator were to resign, we may not be able to find a new investment adviser, administrator or sub-administrator or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as well as our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders are likely to be materially and adversely affected and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and investment or administrative activities, as applicable, is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by our Adviser, our Administrator and our sub-administrator. Even if we are able to retain comparable management, whether internal or external, the integration of such management and their lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The failure in cyber security systems, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our Adviser's disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning or a support failure from external providers during a disaster could impair our ability to conduct business effectively.. The occurrence of a disaster, such as a cyber-attack against us or against a third-party that has access to our data or networks, a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, failure of our disaster recovery systems, or consequential employee error, could have an adverse effect on our ability to communicate or conduct business, negatively impacting our operations and financial condition. This adverse effect can become particularly acute if those events affect our electronic data processing, transmission, storage, and retrieval systems, or impact the availability, integrity, or confidentiality of our data.. We depend heavily upon computer systems to perform necessary business functions. Despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our computer systems, networks, and data, like those of other companies, could be subject to cyber-attacks and unauthorized access, use, alteration, or destruction, such as from physical and electronic break-ins or unauthorized tampering If one or more of these events occurs, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary, and other information processed, stored in, and transmitted through our computer systems and networks. Such an attack could cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, which could result in financial losses, litigation, regulatory penalties, client dissatisfaction or loss, reputational damage, and increased costs associated with mitigation of damages and remediation.. Third parties with which we do business may also be sources of cybersecurity or other technological risk. We outsource certain functions and these relationships allow for the storage and processing of our information, as well as client, counterparty, employee, and borrower information. While we engage in actions to reduce our exposure resulting from outsourcing, ongoing threats may result in unauthorized access, loss, exposure, destruction, or other cybersecurity incident that affects our data, resulting in increased costs and other consequences as described above.. We incur significant costs as a result of being a publicly traded company.. As a publicly traded company, we incur legal, accounting and other expenses, including costs associated with the periodic reporting requirements applicable to a company whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act, as well as additional corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules implemented by the SEC.. If we are unable to manage our growth, our results of operations could suffer.. Rapid growth of our portfolio would require expanded portfolio monitoring, increased personnel, expanded operational and financial systems and new and expanded control procedures. Our Adviser may be unable to attract sufficient qualified personnel or successfully manage expanded operations. As our portfolio expands, we may periodically experience constraints that would adversely affect our Adviser's ability to identify and capitalize on investment opportunities, conduct a thorough and efficient diligence and credit analysis, close financing transactions in a timely fashion and/or effectively monitor our portfolio companies. Failure to manage growth effectively could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 42. Risks Relating to our Conflicts of Interest. There are potential conflicts of interest that could negatively affect our investment returns.. Our investment strategy includes investments in secured loans to companies, together with, in many cases, attached equity \"kickers\" in the form of warrant investments, and direct equity investments. TPC also manages, and in the future may manage, other investment funds, accounts or vehicles that invest or may invest in these companies. Although we are the primary vehicle through which TPC focuses its venture growth stage business, subject to its allocation policy and applicable law, other vehicles sponsored or managed by our Adviser's senior investment team may also invest in venture growth stage companies or may have prior investments outstanding to our borrowers. As a result, members of our Adviser's senior investment team and the Investment Committee, in their roles at TPC, may face conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities among us and other investment vehicles managed by TPC with similar or overlapping investment objectives in a manner that is fair and equitable over time and consistent with TPC's allocation policy. Generally, when a particular investment would be appropriate for us as well as one or more other investment funds, accounts or vehicles managed by our Adviser's senior investment team, such investment will be apportioned by our Adviser's senior investment team in accordance with (1) our Adviser's internal conflict of interest and allocation policies, (2) the requirements of the Advisers Act and (3) certain restrictions under the 1940 Act regarding co-investments with affiliates. Such apportionment may not be strictly pro rata, depending on the good faith determination of all relevant factors, including differing investment objectives, diversification considerations and the terms of our or the respective governing documents of such investment funds, accounts or investment vehicles. These procedures could, in certain circumstances, limit whether or not a co-investment opportunity is available to us, the timing of acquisitions and dispositions of investments, the price paid or received by us for investments or the size of the investment purchased or sold by us.. Our Adviser may be subject to conflicts of interest with respect to taking actions regarding many investments in which TPC or its affiliates also have an interest.. Although our Adviser has adopted a compliance program that includes conflicts of interest policies and procedures, that are designed to mitigate the potential actual or perceived conflicts between us, on the one hand, and TPC and its affiliates, on the other hand, it may not eliminate all potential conflicts. TPC and its affiliates may have previously made investments in secured loans, together with, in many cases, attached equity \"kickers\" in the form of warrant investments, and direct equity investments in some of the same venture growth stage companies in which we expect to invest. In certain of these circumstances, we may have rights and privileges that give us priority over others associated with the issuer, such as TPC or its affiliates. These rights, if exercised, could have a detrimental impact on the value of the investment made by TPC or its affiliates in the issuer, and as a result our Adviser may not exercise the Company's rights if the Adviser believes TPC or its affiliates would be disadvantaged by the Company taking such action, even if it is in the best interests of our stockholders. In addition, our Adviser may be subject to a conflict in seeking to make an investment in an issuer in which TPC or its affiliates have already invested, and we may still choose to make such investment, where permissible, subject to the approval of a majority of our directors who have no financial interest in the investment and a majority of our independent directors. In such a scenario, our Adviser may be influenced to make an investment or take actions in order to protect the interests of TPC or its affiliates in the issuer.. The base management and incentive fee structure we have with our Adviser may create incentives that are not fully aligned with the interests of our stockholders.. In the course of our investing activities, we pay a base management fee and an incentive fee to our Adviser. The Investment Advisory Agreement that we entered into with our Adviser provides that these fees are based on the value of our adjusted gross assets. As a result, investors in our common stock will invest on a \"gross\" basis and receive distributions on a \"net\" basis after expenses, resulting in a lower rate of return than one might achieve through direct investments. Because these fees are based on the value of our total assets, our Adviser benefits when we incur debt or use leverage. This fee structure may encourage our Adviser to cause us to borrow money to finance additional investments. Our Board is charged with protecting our interests by monitoring how our Adviser addresses these and other conflicts of interest associated with its management services and compensation. While our Board does not review or approve each investment decision, borrowing or incurrence of leverage, our independent directors periodically review our Adviser's services and fees as well as its portfolio management decisions and portfolio performance. In connection with these reviews, our independent directors consider whether our fees and expenses (including those related to leverage) remain appropriate. As a result of this arrangement, our Adviser may from time to time have interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict.. 43. Our incentive fee may induce our Adviser to pursue speculative investments and to use leverage when it may be unwise to do so.. The incentive fee payable by us to our Adviser may create an incentive for our Adviser to make investments on our behalf that are risky or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The way in which the incentive fee payable to our Adviser is determined, which is calculated separately in two components as a percentage of the interest and other investment income in excess of a quarterly minimum hurdle rate and as a percentage of the realized gain on invested capital, may encourage our Adviser to use leverage or take additional risk to increase the return on our investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would disfavor the holders of our common stock or of securities convertible into our common stock or warrant investments representing rights to purchase our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock. In addition, our Adviser receives the incentive fee based, in part, upon net capital gains realized on our investments. Unlike the portion of the incentive fee based on investment income, there is no minimum level of gain applicable to the portion of the incentive fee based on net capital gains. As a result, our Adviser may have an incentive to invest more in investments that are likely to result in capital gains as compared to income producing securities or to advance or delay realizing a gain in order to enhance its incentive fee. This practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns. A rise in the general level of interest rates can be expected to lead to higher interest rates applicable to certain of our debt investments and may accordingly result in a substantial increase of the amount of incentive fees payable to our Adviser with respect to our pre-incentive fee net investment income.. We may pay our Adviser an incentive fee on certain investments that include a deferred interest feature.. We underwrite our loans to generally include an end-of-term payment, a PIK interest payment and/or OID. Our end-of-term payments are contractual and fixed interest payments due at the maturity date of the loan, including upon prepayment, and are a fixed percentage of the original principal balance of the loan. The portion of our end-of-term payments which equal the difference between our yield-to-maturity and the stated interest rate on the loan are recognized as non-cash income or OID until they are paid. In addition, in connection with our equity related investments, we may be required to accrue OID which decreases the balance on our secured loans by an amount equal to the value of the warrant investment we receive in connection with the applicable secured loan over its lifetime. Under these types of investments, we accrue interest during the life of the loan on the end-of-term payment, PIK interest payment and/or OID but do not receive the cash income from the investment until the end of the term. However, our pre-incentive fee net investment income, which is used to calculate the income portion of our incentive fee, includes accrued interest. Thus, a portion of this incentive fee is based on income that we have not yet received in cash, such as an end-of-term payment, a PIK interest payment and/or OID.. The valuation process for certain of our investments may create a conflict of interest.. For many of our investments, no market-based price quotation is available. As a result, our Board determines the fair value of these secured loans, warrant and equity investments in good faith as described above in \" - Relating to our Business and Structure - Our investment portfolio is recorded at fair value, with our Board having final responsibility for overseeing, reviewing and approving, in good faith, its estimate of fair value and, as a result, there is uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments.\" In connection with that determination, our Adviser's senior investment team provides our Board with valuation recommendations based upon the most recent and available information, including industry outlook, capitalization, financial statements and projected financial results of each portfolio company. Other than de minimis investments of less than 1% of our gross assets (up to an aggregate of 10% of our gross assets), the valuation for each investment is reviewed by an independent valuation firm annually and the ultimate determination of fair value is made by our Board, including our interested directors, and not by such independent valuation firm. The Board, however, may request at its discretion to have such de minimis investments valued by an independent valuation firm. In addition, Messrs. Labe and Srivastava, each an interested member of our Board, have a material pecuniary interest in our Adviser. The participation of our Adviser's senior investment team in our valuation process, and the pecuniary interest in our Adviser by certain members of our Board, could result in a conflict of interest as our Adviser's base management fee is based, in part, on the value of our average adjusted gross assets, and our Adviser's incentive fee is based, in part, on realized gains and realized and unrealized losses.. 44. There are conflicts related to our arrangements with TPC and our Administrator.. In February 2014, we entered into the License Agreement with TPC under which TPC granted us a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to use the name \"TriplePoint\" and the TriplePoint logo. In addition, in February 2014, we entered into the Administration Agreement with our Administrator pursuant to which we are required to pay our Administrator an amount equal to the allocable portion of our Administrator's overhead resulting from its obligations under the Administration Agreement, including rent and the allocable portion of the cost of our Chief Compliance Officer and Chief Financial Officer and their respective staffs. This creates conflicts of interest that our Board will monitor. For example, under the terms of the License Agreement, we are unable to preclude TPC from licensing or transferring the ownership of the \"TriplePoint\" name to third-parties, some of whom may compete against us. Consequently, we are unable to prevent any damage to goodwill that may occur as a result of the activities of TPC or others. Furthermore, in the event the License Agreement is terminated, we will be required to change our name and cease using \"TriplePoint\" as part of our name. Any of these events could disrupt our recognition in the market place, damage any goodwill we may have generated and otherwise harm our business.. The Investment Advisory Agreement was not negotiated at arm's length and may not be as favorable to us as if it had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third-party.. Pursuant to the terms of the Investment Advisory Agreement, our Adviser is responsible for sourcing, reviewing and structuring investment opportunities for us, underwriting and performing diligence of our investments and monitoring our investment portfolio on an ongoing basis. The Investment Advisory Agreement was negotiated between related parties. Consequently, its terms, including fees payable to our Adviser, may not be as favorable to us as if it had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third-party. In addition, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights and remedies under the Investment Advisory Agreement because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with our Adviser.. Our Adviser's liability is limited under the Investment Advisory Agreement and we have agreed to indemnify our Adviser against certain liabilities, which may lead our Adviser to act in a riskier manner on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account.. Under the Investment Advisory Agreement, our Adviser has not assumed any responsibility to us other than to render the services called for under that agreement. It is not responsible for any action of our Board in following or declining to follow our Adviser's advice or recommendations. Under the Investment Advisory Agreement, our Adviser and its professionals and any person controlling or controlled by our Adviser are not liable to us, any subsidiary of ours, our directors, our stockholders or any subsidiary's stockholders or partners for acts or omissions performed in accordance with and pursuant to the Investment Advisory Agreement, except those resulting from acts constituting gross negligence, willful misfeasance, bad faith or reckless disregard of the duties that our Adviser owes to us under the Investment Advisory Agreement. In addition, as part of the Investment Advisory Agreement, we have agreed to indemnify our Adviser and its professionals from and against any claims or liabilities, including reasonable legal fees and other expenses reasonably incurred, arising out of or in connection with our business and operations or any action taken or omitted on our behalf pursuant to authority granted by the Investment Advisory Agreement, except where attributable to gross negligence, willful misfeasance, bad faith or reckless disregard of such person's duties under the Investment Advisory Agreement.. Risks Relating to our Investments. Our investments are concentrated in technology, life sciences and other high growth industries, including clean technology, some of which are subject to extensive government regulation, which exposes us to the risk of significant loss if any of these industry sectors experiences a downturn.. A consequence of our investment strategy is that our investment returns will be materially and adversely affected if the companies or the industries we target perform poorly. Beyond the asset diversification requirements to which we will be subject as a RIC and any concentration limitations we have agreed or may agree to as part of the Credit Facility or any future indebtedness, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification or limitations on the size of our investments in any one company and our investments could be concentrated in relatively few industries.. 45. Our investments may be subject to extensive regulation by U.S. and foreign federal, state and/or local agencies. Changes in existing laws, rules or regulations, or judicial or administrative interpretations thereof, or new laws, rules or regulations could have an adverse impact on the business and industries of our portfolio companies. In addition, changes in government priorities or limitations on government resources could also adversely impact our portfolio companies. We are unable to predict whether any such changes in laws, rules or regulations will occur and, if they do occur, the impact of these changes on our portfolio companies and our investment returns. Furthermore, if any of our portfolio companies fail to comply with applicable regulations, they could be subject to significant penalties and claims that could materially and adversely affect their operations. Our portfolio companies may be subject to the expense, delay and uncertainty of the regulatory approval process for their products and, even if approved, these products may not be accepted in the marketplace.. Our portfolio is composed of investments exclusively in the technology, life sciences and other high growth industries, including clean technology. As a result, a downturn in any of these industries and particularly those in which we are heavily concentrated could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our portfolio may lack diversification among portfolio companies which may subject us to a risk of significant loss if one or more of these companies defaults on its obligations under any of its debt instruments.. Our portfolio consists of a limited number of portfolio companies. Beyond the asset diversification requirements associated with our qualification as a RIC under the Code, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments may be concentrated in relatively few companies. As our portfolio is currently less diversified than the portfolios of others, we are more susceptible to failure if a single loan fails. Similarly, the aggregate returns we realize may be significantly adversely affected if a small number of investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment.. Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be negatively affected if a significant portfolio investment fails to perform as expected.. Our total investment in an individual company may be significant. As a result, if a significant investment fails to perform as expected, it may be subject to multiple credit rating downgrades on our internal rating scale within a short period of time. As a result of such deterioration in the performance of a significant investment, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be more negatively affected and the magnitude of the loss could be more significant than if we had made smaller investments in more companies.. Our investment strategy includes a primary focus on venture growth stage companies, which are subject to many risks, including dependence on the need to raise additional capital, volatility, intense competition, shortened product life cycles, changes in regulatory and governmental programs, periodic downturns, below investment grade ratings, which could cause you to lose all or part of your investment in us.. We invest primarily in venture growth stage companies, many of which may have narrow product lines and small market shares, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as to general economic downturns, compared to more mature companies. The revenues, income (or losses), and projected financial performance and valuations of venture growth stage companies can and often do fluctuate suddenly and dramatically. For these reasons, investments in our portfolio companies, if rated by one or more ratings agency, would typically be rated below \"investment grade,\" which refers to securities rated by ratings agencies below the four highest rating categories. Our target venture growth stage companies are geographically concentrated and are therefore highly susceptible to materially negative local, political, natural and economic events. In addition, high growth industries are generally characterized by abrupt business cycles and intense competition. Overcapacity in high growth industries, together with cyclical economic downturns, may result in substantial decreases in the value of many venture growth stage companies and/or their ability to meet their current and projected financial performance to service our debt. Furthermore, venture growth stage companies also typically rely on venture capital and private equity investors, or initial public offerings, or sales for additional capital.. Venture capital firms in turn rely on their limited partners to pay in capital over time in order to fund their ongoing and future investment activities. To the extent that venture capital firms' limited partners are unable or choose not to fulfill their ongoing funding obligations, the venture capital firms may be unable to continue operationally and/or financially supporting the ongoing operations of our portfolio companies, which could materially and adversely impact our financing arrangement with the portfolio company.. These companies, their industries, their products and customer demand and the outlook and competitive landscape for their industries are all subject to change, which could adversely impact their ability to execute their business plans and generate cash flow or raise additional capital that would serve as the basis for repayment of our loans. Therefore, our venture growth stage companies may face considerably more risk of loss than do companies at other stages of development.. 46. Some of our portfolio companies may need additional capital, which may not be readily available.. Venture growth stage companies may require additional equity financing if their cash flow from operating activities is insufficient to satisfy their continuing growth, working capital and other requirements. Each round of venture financing is typically intended to provide a venture capital-backed company with only enough capital to reach the next stage of development. We cannot predict the circumstances or market conditions under which our venture growth stage companies will seek additional capital. It is possible that one or more of our venture growth stage companies will not be able to raise additional financing or may be able to do so only at a price or on terms unfavorable to us, either of which would negatively impact our investment returns, the fair value of our portfolio and our ability to restructure our investments. Some of these companies may be unable to obtain sufficient financing from private investors, public or private capital markets or traditional lenders. This may have a significant impact if the companies are unable to obtain certain federal, state or foreign agency approval for their products or the marketing thereof, if regulatory review processes extend longer than anticipated and the companies need continued funding for their operations during these times. Accordingly, financing these types of companies may entail a higher risk of loss than would financing companies that are able to utilize traditional credit sources.. Our existing and/or future portfolio companies may not draw on any of our unfunded obligations or may draw our outstanding unfunded obligations at a time when our capital is not readily available.. A commitment to extend credit is a formal agreement to lend funds to our portfolio companies as long as there is no violation of any condition established under the agreement. The actual borrowing needs of our portfolio companies under these commitments have historically been lower than the contractual amount of the commitments. A portion of these commitments expire without being drawn upon, and as such, the total amount of unfunded commitments does not reflect our expected future cash funding requirements.. As of December 31, 2017, our unfunded obligations to ten portfolio companies totaled approximately $100.1 million. Our credit agreements contain customary lending provisions that allow us relief from funding obligations for previously made commitments in instances where the underlying company experiences materially adverse events that affect the financial condition or business outlook for the company. We cannot assure you that any of these unfunded or any future obligations will be drawn by the venture growth stage companies. Of these unfunded commitments, $18.0 million are dependent upon the portfolio companies reaching certain milestones before the debt commitment becomes available to the portfolio company. Of the approximately $100.1 million of unfunded obligations, approximately $87.1 million expire during 2018 and $13.0 million expire during 2019, if not drawn prior to expiration. In addition, of the approximately $100.1 million of unfunded obligations, $98.4 million represent obligations for growth capital loans and approximately $1.7 million for equipment financing. We had $120.0 million of commitments to six portfolio companies expire during the year ended December 31, 2017. We entered into commitments with certain portfolio companies that permit an increase in the commitment amount in the future in the event that conditions to such increases are met. If such conditions to increase are met, these amounts may become unfunded commitments if not drawn prior to expiration. As of December 31, 2017, this backlog of potential future commitments totaled $35.4 million.. The actual borrowing needs of our portfolio companies may exceed our expected funding requirements, especially during a challenging economic environment when our portfolio companies may be more dependent on our credit commitments due to the lack of available credit elsewhere, an increasing cost of credit or the limited availability of financing from venture capital firms. In addition, investors in some of our portfolio companies may fail to meet their underlying investment commitments due to liquidity or other financing issues, which may increase our portfolio companies' borrowing needs. Any failure to meet our unfunded credit commitments in accordance with the actual borrowing needs of our portfolio companies may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We intend to use cash flow from normal and early principal repayments, indebtedness, any proceeds from any subsequent equity or debt offerings, and available cash to fund our outstanding unfunded obligations. However, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient capital available to fund these commitments as they come due. We may rely on assumptions, estimates, assurances and other information related to potential non-utilization of unfunded commitments by our portfolio companies as well as related to potential exit events, principal prepayments, and fee payments.  To the extent these assumptions, estimates, assurances and other information are incorrect or events are delayed, we may not be able to fund commitments as they come due. To the extent we are not able to fund commitments as they come due, we may be forced to sell assets, modify the terms of our commitments or default on our commitments, and as a result, our business could be materially and adversely affected.. Unlike traditional lenders, we offer a flexible payment and covenant structure to our portfolio companies and may choose not to take advantage of certain opportunities due to our long-term investment philosophy to develop and maintain deep and longstanding relationships with TPC's select group of leading venture capital investors, borrowers and entrepreneurs and to preserve our reputation.. 47. As part of the Four Rs, our core investment philosophy, we seek to develop and maintain deep and longstanding relationships with TPC's select group of leading venture capital investors, borrowers and entrepreneurs and to preserve our reputation. Accordingly, our debt-financing products generally offer borrowers a flexible payment and covenant structure that may not provide us with the same level of protection as more restrictive conditions that traditional lenders typically impose on borrowers. Furthermore, there may be situations with borrowers on our Credit Watch List where we believe that a member of TPC's select group of venture capital investors intends to, expresses their intent to, or provides subject to milestones or contingencies, continued support, assistance and/or financial commitment to the borrower and our Adviser, based on such representation, may determine to modify or waive a provision or term of our existing loan which we would otherwise be entitled to enforce. The terms of any such modification or waiver may not be as favorable to us as we could have required, or had the right to require, and we may choose to enforce less vigorously our rights and remedies under our loans than traditional lenders due to our investment philosophy to preserve our reputation and maintain a strong relationship with the applicable venture capital investor or borrower based on their representations made to us.. Worldwide economic conditions, economic recessions or downturns, as well as political and economic conditions, could impair our venture growth stage companies and harm our operating results.. The business and operating results of our venture growth stage companies may be impacted by worldwide economic conditions. Although the U.S. economy has in recent quarters shown signs of recovery from the global recession, the strength and duration of any economic recovery will be impacted by worldwide economic growth. Any conflict or uncertainty, including due to regulatory changes, natural disasters, public health concerns, political unrest or safety concerns, could harm their financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if the government of any country in which products are developed, manufactured or sold sets technical or regulatory standards for products developed or manufactured in or imported into their country that are not widely shared, it may lead some of their customers to suspend imports of their products into that country, require manufacturers or developers in that country to manufacture or develop products with different technical or regulatory standards and disrupt cross-border manufacturing, marketing or business relationships which, in each case, could harm the business of our venture growth stage companies.. Many of the venture growth stage companies in which we make investments are susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our secured loans during such periods. Adverse economic conditions may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our secured loans. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing our investments and materially and adversely impact our financial condition, result of operations and cash flows.. Changes to United States tariff and import/export regulations may have a negative effect on our portfolio companies and, in turn, harm us.. There has been on-going discussion and commentary regarding potential significant changes to United States trade policies, treaties and tariffs. The current administration, along with Congress, has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United States and other countries with respect to the trade policies, treaties and tariffs. These developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, may have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and may significantly reduce global trade and, in particular, trade between the impacted nations and the United States. Any of these factors could depress economic activity and restrict our portfolio companies' access to suppliers or customers and have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition and results of operations, which in turn would negatively impact us.. If our portfolio companies are unable to protect their intellectual property rights, our business and prospects could be harmed. If our portfolio companies are required to devote significant resources to protecting their intellectual property rights, then the value of our investment could be reduced.. Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon the ability of our venture growth stage companies to obtain and maintain proprietary technology used in their products and services, which will often represent a significant portion of the collateral securing our loans. Venture growth stage companies will rely, in part, on patent, trade secret and trademark law to protect that technology, but competitors may misappropriate their intellectual property, and disputes as to ownership of intellectual property may arise. Venture growth stage companies may have also failed to properly obtain intellectual property ownership that, under intellectual property laws, by default resides with the personnel who created the intellectual property. Consequently, venture growth stage companies may, from time to time, be required to institute litigation in order to enforce their patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights, to protect their trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Similarly, if a venture growth stage company is found to infringe upon or misappropriate a third-party's patent or other proprietary rights, that company could be required to pay damages to such third-party, alter its own products or processes, obtain a license from the third-party and/or cease activities utilizing. 48. such proprietary rights, including making or selling products utilizing such proprietary rights. Any of the foregoing events could negatively affect both the company's ability to service our debt obligation and the value of any equity securities that we own, as well as any collateral securing our obligation.. Our relationship with certain portfolio companies may expose us to our portfolio companies' trade secrets and confidential information which may require us to be parties to non-disclosure agreements and restrict us from engaging in certain transactions.. Our relationship with some of our portfolio companies may expose us to our portfolio companies' trade secrets and confidential information (including transactional data and personal data about their employees and clients) that may require us to be parties to non-disclosure agreements and restrict us from engaging in certain transactions. Unauthorized access or disclosure of such information may occur, resulting in theft, loss or other misappropriation. Any theft, loss, improper use, such as insider trading or other misappropriation of confidential information could have a material adverse impact on our competitive positions, our relationship with our portfolio companies and our reputation and could subject us to regulatory inquiries, enforcement and fines, civil litigation and possible financial liability or costs.. Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected if we are unable to recover our principal investment as a result of a negative pledge or lack of a security interest on the intellectual property of our venture growth stage companies.. In some cases, we collateralize our loans with a secured collateral position in a venture growth stage company's assets, which may include a negative pledge or, to a lesser extent, no security on their intellectual property. In the case of a negative pledge, the venture growth stage company cannot encumber or pledge their intellectual property without our permission. In the event of a default on a loan, the intellectual property of the venture growth stage company will most likely be liquidated to provide proceeds to pay the creditors of the company. There can be no assurance that our security interest, if any, in the proceeds of the intellectual property will be enforceable in a court of law or bankruptcy court or that there will not be others with senior or pari passu credit interests.. If the assets securing the loans that we make decrease in value, then we may lack sufficient collateral to cover losses.. We believe that our borrowers generally are able to repay our loans from their available capital, future capital-raising transactions or current and/or future cash flow from operations. However, to attempt to mitigate credit risks, we typically take a secured collateral position. There is a risk that the collateral securing our secured loans may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise, may be liquidated at a price lower than what we consider to be fair value and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business and market conditions, including as a result of the inability of a borrower to raise additional capital.. In some circumstances, other creditors have claims in priority to our senior lien. Although for certain borrowers, we may be the only form of secured debt (other than potentially specific equipment financing), other borrowers may also have other senior secured debt, such as revolving loans and/or term loans, in priority to our senior lien. At the time of underwriting our loans, we generally only consider growth capital loans for prospective borrowers with sufficient collateral that covers the value of our loan as well as the revolving and/or term loans that may be in priority to our senior lien; however, there may be instances in which we have incorrectly estimated the current or future potential value of the underlying collateral or the underlying collateral value has decreased, in which case our ability to recover our investment may be materially and adversely affected.. In addition, a substantial portion of the assets securing our investment may be in the form of intellectual property, inventory and equipment and, to a lesser extent, cash and accounts receivable. Intellectual property that is securing our loan could lose value if, among other things, the borrower's rights to the intellectual property are challenged or if the borrower's license to the intellectual property is revoked or expires. Inventory may not be adequate to secure our loan if our valuation of the inventory at the time that we made the loan was not accurate or if there is a reduction in the demand for the inventory.. Similarly, any equipment securing our loan may not provide us with the anticipated security if there are changes in technology or advances in new equipment that render the particular equipment obsolete or of limited value, or if the borrower fails to adequately maintain or repair the equipment. The residual value of the equipment at the time we would take possession may not be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding debt and we could experience a loss on the disposition of the equipment. Any one or more of the preceding factors could materially impair our ability to recover our investment in a foreclosure.. 49. Our portfolio companies may have limited operating histories and financial resources.. Our portfolio consists of investments in companies that have relatively limited operating histories. Generally, very little public information exists about these companies, and we are required to rely on the ability of our Adviser to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. These companies may be particularly vulnerable to U.S. and foreign economic downturns such as the recent recession and may have limited access to capital. These businesses also frequently have less diverse product lines and a smaller market presence than larger competitors and may experience substantial variations in operating results. They may face intense competition, including from companies with greater financial, technical, operational and marketing resources, and typically depend upon the expertise and experience of a single individual executive or a small management team. Our success depends, in large part, upon the abilities of the key management personnel of our portfolio companies, who are responsible for the day-to-day operations of our portfolio companies. Competition for qualified personnel is intense at any stage of a company's development. The loss of one or more key managers can hinder or delay a company's implementation of its business plan and harm its financial condition. Our portfolio companies may not be able to attract and retain qualified managers and personnel. Any inability to do so may negatively affect our investment returns.. In addition, our existing and future portfolio companies may compete with each other for investment or business opportunities and the success of one could negatively impact the other. Furthermore, some of our portfolio companies do business in regulated industries and could be affected by changes in government regulation. Accordingly, these factors could impair their cash flow or result in other events, such as bankruptcy, which could limit their ability to repay their obligations to us, and may materially and adversely affect the return on, or the recovery of, our investment. As a result, we may lose our entire investment in any or all of our portfolio companies.. We make debt investments in venture growth stage companies that generally do not have sufficient cash resources to repay our loan in full at the time of its origination.. We invest primarily in venture growth stage companies that generally do not have sufficient cash-on-hand to satisfy our loan in full at the time we originate the loan. Following our investment, these companies may be unable to successfully scale operations and increase revenue as we had anticipated at the time we made the investment. In certain circumstances, these companies may not be able to generate meaningful customer sales, commitments or orders due to unfavorable market conditions. As a result, the company may not generate sufficient cash flow to service our loan and/or the company's venture capital investors may no longer provide the company with meaningful invested equity capital to provide a debt financing cushion to our loan. As a consequence, the company may (i) request us to restructure our loan resulting in the delay of principal repayment, the reduction of fees and/or future interest rates and/or the possible loss of principal or (ii) experience bankruptcy, liquidation or similar financial distress. We may be unable to accommodate any such restructuring request due to the eligibility requirements under the Credit Facility. The bankruptcy, liquidation and/or recovery process has a number of significant inherent risks for us as a creditor. Many events in a bankruptcy proceeding are the product of contested matters and adversary proceedings and are beyond the control of the creditors. A bankruptcy filing by one of our portfolio companies may adversely and permanently affect our investment in that company. If the proceeding is converted to liquidation, the liquidation value of the company may not equal the fair value that was believed to exist at the time of our investment. The duration of a bankruptcy, liquidation and/or recovery proceeding is also difficult to predict, and a creditor's return on investment can be materially and adversely affected by delays until the plan of reorganization or liquidation ultimately becomes effective. The administrative costs in connection with a bankruptcy proceeding are frequently high and would be paid out of the debtor's estate prior to any return to creditors. Because the standards for classification of claims under bankruptcy law are vague, our influence with respect to the obligations we own may be lost by increases in the number and amount of claims or by different treatment. In the early stages of the bankruptcy process, it is often difficult to estimate the extent of, or even to identify, any contingent claims that might be made. In addition, certain claims that have priority by law (for example, claims for taxes) may be substantial.. 50. There may be circumstances when our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims.. Even though we structure many investments as secured loans, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances, and based upon principles of equitable subordination as defined by existing case law, a bankruptcy court could subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors and transfer any lien securing such subordinated claim to the bankruptcy estate. The principles of equitable subordination defined by case law have generally indicated that a claim may be subordinated only if its holder is guilty of misconduct or where the senior loan is re-characterized as an equity investment and the senior lender has actually provided significant managerial assistance to the bankrupt debtor. We may also be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by us with respect to a borrower's business or instances where we exercise control over the borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender's liability claim, including as a result of actions taken in rendering significant managerial assistance or actions to compel and collect payments from the borrower outside the ordinary course of business. Such risk of equitable subordination may be potentially heightened with respect to various portfolio investments that we may be deemed to control.. The lack of liquidity in our investments may materially and adversely affect our ability to meet our investment objectives.. The majority of our assets are invested in illiquid loans and a substantial portion of our investments in leveraged companies are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or are otherwise less liquid than more broadly traded public securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments.. To the extent that we invest in equity or equity-linked securities of privately-held companies, there can be no assurances that a trading market will develop for the securities that we wish to liquidate, or that the subject companies will permit their shares to be sold through such marketplaces. A lack of initial public offering opportunities for venture capital-backed companies could lead to companies staying longer in our portfolio as private entities that continue to require private funding. This situation may adversely affect the amount of available funding for venture growth stage companies. A lack of initial public offering opportunities for venture capital-backed companies can also cause some venture capital firms to change their strategies, leading some of them to reduce funding of their portfolio companies and making it more difficult for such companies to access capital and to fulfill their potential, which can result in unrealized depreciation and realized losses in such companies by other companies such as ourselves who are co-investors in such companies.. Even if a subject portfolio company completes an initial public offering, we are typically subject to lock-up provisions that prohibit us from selling our investments into the public market for specified periods of time after the initial public offering. As a result, the market price of securities that we hold may decline substantially before we are able to sell these securities following an initial public offering.. Any unrealized losses we experience on our investment portfolio may be an indication of future realized losses, which could reduce our funds available for distribution and could materially and adversely affect our ability to service our outstanding borrowings.. As a BDC, we are required to carry our investments at fair value as determined in good faith by or under the direction of our Board. Decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments are recorded as unrealized losses. Any unrealized losses in our investment portfolio could be an indication of a portfolio company's inability to meet its repayment obligations to us with respect to the affected investments. This could result in realized losses in the future and ultimately in reductions of our funds available for distribution in future periods and could materially and adversely affect our ability to service our outstanding borrowings.. Our stockholders do not have any input in our Adviser's investment decisions.. Our investments are selected by our Adviser, subject to the approval of its Investment Committee. Our stockholders do not have input into our Adviser's investment decisions. As a result, our stockholders are unable to evaluate any of our potential portfolio investments. These factors increase the uncertainty, and thus the risk, of investing in shares of our common stock.. 51. Because we do not hold controlling equity interests in our portfolio companies, we are not able to exercise control over our portfolio companies or prevent decisions by management that could decrease the value of our investment.. We do not hold controlling equity positions in any of our portfolio companies. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree and that the management and/or stockholders of a portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are materially adverse to our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity of the debt and equity investments that we hold in our portfolio, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company and may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investment.. We may suffer a loss if a portfolio company defaults on a loan, including the entire or partial loss of the accrued PIK interest, the end-of-term payment and/or OID, such as warrant investments and facility fees due to us.. Our debt-financing products generally offer a flexible payment and covenant structure to our portfolio companies that may not provide the same level of protection to us as more restrictive conditions that traditional lenders typically impose on borrowers. For example, our secured loans generally include an end-of-term payment, PIK interest payment and/or OID, such as warrant investments and facility fees. If a portfolio company fails to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders, the company may default on our loan which could potentially lead to termination of its loans and foreclosure on its assets. If a portfolio company defaults under our loan, this could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize such portfolio company's ability to meet its obligations under the loans or equity securities that we hold, including payment to us of the end-of-term payment, PIK interest payment and/or OID, such as warrant investments and facility fees. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company.. Prepayments of our loans could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and ability to make stockholder distributions and result in a decline in the market price of our shares.. We are subject to the risk that the loans we make to our portfolio companies may be repaid prior to maturity. We expect that our investments generally allow for repayment at any time subject to penalties in certain limited circumstances. When this occurs, we generally reinvest these proceeds in temporary investments, pending their future investment in accordance with our investment strategy. These temporary investments typically have substantially lower yields than the loan being prepaid and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. Any future investment may also be at lower yields than the loan that was repaid. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected if one or more of our portfolio companies elect to prepay amounts owed to us. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact our ability to make, or the amount of, stockholder distributions with respect to our common stock, which could result in a decline in the market price of our shares.. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies.. We invest a portion of our capital in loans that have a secured collateral position. Our portfolio companies may have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that is secured by and ranks equally with, or senior to, all or a portion of the collateral secured by the loans in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the loans in which we invest or are entitled to receive payment from the disposition of certain collateral or all collateral senior to us. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying senior creditors, a portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with loans in which we invest, we would have to share any distributions on an equal and ratable basis with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the company.. The senior liens on the collateral secure the company's obligations under any outstanding senior debt and may secure certain other future debt that may be permitted to be incurred by the company under the agreements governing the loans. The holders of obligations secured by senior liens on the collateral generally control the liquidation of, and are entitled to receive proceeds from, any realization of the collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation depends on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the loan obligations secured by the senior liens after payment in full of all obligations secured by other liens on the collateral. If such proceeds were not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the loan obligations secured by other liens, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against the company's remaining assets, if any.. 52. The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing the loans we make to our portfolio companies with senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements that we enter into with the holders of such senior debt. Under a typical intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the senior liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral will be at the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the senior liens:.   the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral;.   the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings;.   the approval of amendments to collateral documents;.   releases of liens on the collateral;.   waivers of past defaults under collateral documents; and.   we may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if our rights, including our security interest in the collateral, are materially and adversely affected.. The disposition of our investments may result in contingent liabilities.. A substantial majority of our investments are loans. In connection with the disposition of an investment in loans, we may be required to make representations about the business and financial affairs of the portfolio company typical of those made in connection with the sale of a business. We may also be required to indemnify the purchasers of such investment to the extent that any such representations turn out to be inaccurate or with respect to potential liabilities. These arrangements may result in contingent liabilities that ultimately result in funding obligations that we must satisfy through our return of distributions previously made to us.. Our equity related investments are highly speculative, and we may not realize gains from these investments.. When we make a secured loan, we generally acquire warrant investments in the company. From time to time we may also acquire equity participation rights in connection with an investment which will allow us, at our option, to participate in current or future rounds of equity financing through direct capital investments in our portfolio companies. In addition, we may be required to accrue OID which decreases the balance on our secured loans by an amount equal to the value of the warrant investment we receive in connection with the applicable secured loan over its lifetime. To the extent we hold these equity related investments, we attempt to dispose of them and realize gains upon our disposition of them. However, the equity related investments we receive and make may not appreciate in value or may decline in value. We also may be unable to realize any value if a portfolio company does not have a liquidity event, such as a sale of the business or public offering, or if the portfolio company defaults under its outstanding indebtedness, which could materially decrease the value of, or prevent us from being able to sell, the underlying equity related investment. As a result, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity related investments and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity related investment may not be sufficient to offset any other losses or OID we experience or accrue.. Our investments in the life sciences industry are subject to extensive government regulation, litigation risk and certain other risks particular to that industry.. We have invested and plan to continue investing in venture growth stage companies in the life sciences industry that are subject to extensive regulation by the Food and Drug Administration and, to a lesser extent, federal, state and other foreign agencies. If any of these companies fail to comply with applicable regulations, they could be subject to significant penalties and claims that could materially and adversely affect their operations. In addition, governmental budgetary constraints affecting the regulatory approval process, new laws, regulations or judicial interpretations of existing laws and regulations might materially and adversely affect a company in this industry. Venture growth stage companies in the life sciences industry may also have a limited number of suppliers of necessary components or a limited number of manufacturers for their products, and therefore face a risk of disruption to their manufacturing process if they are unable to find alternative suppliers when needed. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect the operations of a company in this industry and, in turn, impair our ability to timely collect principal and interest payments owed to us.. 53. Investments in secured loans to companies with foreign operations may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments.. Our investment strategy contemplates making secured loans to companies with foreign operations. As of December 31, 2017, 19.9% of our portfolio consisted of companies not domiciled in the United States as they did not have their principal place of business in the United States. Investing in such companies may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies or U.S. companies with no foreign operations. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, intellectual property laws, political and social instability, limitations in our ability to perfect our security interests, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. In addition, we expect investing in such companies will expose us to higher administrative, legal and monitoring costs and expenses not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies or U.S. companies with no foreign operations.. We may expose ourselves to risks resulting from our use of interest rate hedging transactions.. As of December 31, 2017, 65% of our portfolio had a floating interest rate indexed to the prime rate. The remaining 35% of our portfolio had a fixed interest rate. Our Credit Facility bears interest at a floating rate indexed to LIBOR. We may utilize instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps, collars and/or floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our fixed-rate portfolio positions and/or to hedge against the impact on our net investment income from changes in market interest rates. When we engage in interest rate hedging transactions, we may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. We believe that any hedging transactions that we enter into in the future will not be considered \"qualifying assets\" under the 1940 Act, which may limit our hedging strategy more than other companies that are not subject to the 1940 Act.. Hedging transactions do not eliminate the risks associated with possible interest rate fluctuations on the value of our investments. These risks include: (i) the possibility that the market will move in a manner or direction that would have resulted in gain for us had an interest rate hedging transaction not been utilized, in which case our performance would have been better had we not engaged in the interest rate hedging transaction; (ii) the risk of imperfect correlation between the risk sought to be hedged and the interest rate hedging transaction used; (iii) potential illiquidity for the hedging instrument used, which may make it difficult for us to close-out or unwind an interest rate hedging transaction; and (iv) the possibility that the counterparty fails to honor its obligation. Furthermore, it may not be possible to hedge against an interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the interest rate being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss.. Our failure to make protective or follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our portfolio.. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as \"protective\" and/or \"follow-on\" investments, in order to attempt to preserve or enhance the value of our initial investment. We may elect not to make follow-on investments or otherwise lack sufficient funds to make those investments. We have the discretion to make any follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources. The failure to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company, result in a diminished current value or impair the ability or likelihood for a full recovery of the value of our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we do not want to increase our concentration of risk, we prefer other opportunities, we are subject to BDC requirements that would prevent such follow-on investments or the follow-on investment would affect our qualification as a RIC.. Risks Relating to our Common Stock and Public Debt. Our common stock may trade below our net asset value per share, which limits our ability to raise additional equity capital.. If our common stock is trading below our net asset value per share, we are not able to issue additional shares of our common stock at the market price without first obtaining the approval for such issuance from our stockholders and our independent directors. If our common stock trades below our net asset value per share, the higher cost of equity capital may result in it being unattractive to raise new equity, which may limit our ability to grow. The risk of our common stock trading below our net asset value per share is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share may decline. We cannot predict whether shares of our common stock will trade above, at or below our net asset value per share.. 54. Our stockholders will experience dilution in their ownership percentage if they opt out of our dividend reinvestment plan and participating stockholders can experience dilution in the value of their shares if we distribute shares through our dividend reinvestment plan at a price below the then current NAV.. All dividends declared in cash payable to stockholders that are participants in our dividend reinvestment plan may be reinvested in newly-issued shares of our common stock. As a result, our stockholders that opt out of our dividend reinvestment plan will experience dilution in their ownership percentage of our common stock over time. In addition, we may distribute shares through our dividend reinvestment plan at a price that is below the then current NAV, which would result in dilution of the value of the shares held by stockholders who participate in our dividend reinvestment plan.. Investing in our common stock may involve an above average degree of risk.. The investments we make in accordance with our investment strategy may result in a higher amount of risk and higher volatility or loss of principal than alternative investment options. Our investments in venture growth stage companies with secured loans, warrant investments and direct equity investments may be speculative and, therefore, an investment in our common stock may not be suitable for someone with lower risk tolerance.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly.. The market price and liquidity of the market for shares of our common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include:.   price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;.   significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of BDCs or other companies in our sector, which is not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies;.   any inability to deploy or invest our capital;.   fluctuations in interest rates;.   any inability to access the capital markets;.   realized and unrealized losses in investments in our portfolio companies;.   the financial performance of the industries in which we invest;.   announcement of strategic developments, acquisitions, and other material events by us or our competitors or operating performance of companies comparable to us;.   changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs or BDCs;.   perception or reputation of TPC;.   loss of our qualification as a RIC or BDC;.   changes in earnings or variations in operating results;.   changes in accounting guidelines governing valuation of our investments;.   any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts;.   departure of, or loss of access to, our Adviser's senior investment team;.   operating performance of companies comparable to us; and.   general economic trends and other external factors.. 55. Our business and operation could be negatively affected if we become subject to any securities litigation or shareholder activism, which could cause us to incur significant expense, hinder execution of investment strategy and impact our stock price.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Shareholder activism, which could take many forms or arise in a variety of situations, has been increasing in the BDC space recently. While we are currently not subject to any securities litigation or shareholder activism, due to the potential volatility of our stock price and for a variety of other reasons, we may in the future become the target of securities litigation or shareholder activism. Securities litigation and shareholder activism, including potential proxy contests, could result in substantial costs and divert management's and our board of directors' attention and resources from our business. Additionally, such securities litigation and shareholder activism could give rise to perceived uncertainties as to our future, adversely affect our relationships with service providers and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel. Also, we may be required to incur significant legal fees and other expenses related to any securities litigation and activist shareholder matters. Further, our stock price could be subject to significant fluctuation or otherwise be adversely affected by the events, risks and uncertainties of any securities litigation and shareholder activism.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the availability of such common stock for sale, could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our common stock. If this occurs and continues, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities should we desire to do so.. The trading market or market value of our publicly issued debt securities may fluctuate.. Our publicly issued debt securities may or may not continue to have an established trading market. We cannot provide assurance that a trading market for our publicly issued debt securities will be maintained. In addition to our creditworthiness, many factors may materially adversely affect the trading market for, and market value of, our publicly issued debt securities. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:.   the time remaining to the maturity of these debt securities;.   the outstanding principal amount of debt securities with terms identical to these debt securities;.   the ratings assigned by national statistical ratings agencies;.   the general economic environment;.   the supply of debt securities trading in the secondary market, if any;.   the redemption or repayment features, if any, of these debt securities;.   the level, direction and volatility of market interest rates generally; and.   market rates of interest higher or lower than rates borne by the debt securities.. An investor should also be aware that there may be a limited number of buyers when such investor decides to sell its debt securities. This too may materially adversely affect the market value of the debt securities or the trading market for the debt securities.. Terms relating to redemption may materially adversely affect the return on any debt securities that we may issue.. If debt securities are redeemable at our option, we may choose to redeem debt securities at times when prevailing interest rates are lower than the interest rate paid on debt securities. In addition, if debt securities are subject to mandatory redemption, we may be required to redeem debt securities also at times when prevailing interest rates are lower than the interest rate paid on debt securities. In this circumstance, an investor may not be able to reinvest the redemption proceeds in a comparable security at an effective interest rate as high as the debt securities being redeemed.. 56. The 2022 Notes are unsecured and therefore are effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness we have currently incurred or may incur in the future.. The 2022 Notes are not secured by any of our assets or any of the assets of our subsidiaries. As a result, the 2022 Notes are effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness we or our subsidiaries have currently incurred and may incur in the future (or any indebtedness that is initially unsecured to which we subsequently grant security) to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. In any liquidation, dissolution, bankruptcy or other similar proceeding, the holders of any of our existing or future secured indebtedness and the secured indebtedness of our subsidiaries may assert rights against the assets pledged to secure that indebtedness in order to receive full payment of their indebtedness before the assets may be used to pay other creditors, including the holders of the 2022 Notes.. An active trading market for the 2022 Notes may not develop or be sustained, which could limit the market price of the 2022 Notes or your ability to sell them.. Although the 2022 Notes are listed on the NYSE under the symbol \"TPVY,\" we cannot provide any assurances that an active trading market will develop or be sustained for the 2022 Notes or that any of the notes will be able to be sold. At various times, the 2022 Notes may trade at a discount from their initial offering price depending on prevailing interest rates, the market for similar securities, our credit ratings, general economic conditions, our financial condition, performance and prospects and other factors. To the extent an active trading market is not sustained, the liquidity and trading price for the 2022 Notes may be harmed."
