[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.. Our business and results of operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below.  Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company's business operations.  This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.  If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our securities could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment.  Some statements in the following risk factors constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to \"Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" in Item 7 of this report.. Risks Relating to Our Business. Acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute stockholder value. We may not be able to overcome the integration, costs and other risks associated with our recently completed and possible future acquisitions, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability.. Our business strategy focuses on both organic growth and targeted acquisitions. We anticipate that any future acquisitions would involve substantial transaction expenses and expenses associated with integrating the operations of the acquired businesses with our operations.  These expenses may exceed the savings that we expect to receive for the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale.  We may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of our recently completed and possible future acquisitions if the integration process for these acquisitions takes longer or is more costly than expected or otherwise fails to meet our expectations. Such integration processes will be a time-consuming and expensive process that could significantly disrupt our existing services, even if effectively and efficiently planned and implemented.. In addition, our acquisition activities could be material to our business and involve a number of risks, including the following:. •  incurring time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and negotiating potential transactions, resulting in our attention being diverted from the operation of our existing business;. •  using inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management, tax and market risks with respect to the target institution or assets;. •  exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company;. •  intense competition from other banking organizations and other acquirers for acquisitions;. •  potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of banks and businesses we acquire, including, without limitation, liabilities for regulatory and compliance issues;. •  inability to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence and other projected benefits of the acquisition;. •  the time and expense required to integrate the operations and personnel of the combined businesses;. •  experiencing higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new operations;. •  creating an adverse short term effect on our results of operations;. •  losing key employees and customers;. •  significant problems relating to the conversion of the financial and customer data of the entity;. •  integration of acquired customers into our financial and customer product systems;. •  potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company; or. •  risks of impairment to goodwill or other than temporary impairment of investment securities.. Depending on the condition of any institution or assets or liabilities that we may acquire, that acquisition may, at least in the near term, adversely affect our capital and earnings and, if not successfully integrated with our organization, may continue to have such effects over a longer period. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with potential acquisitions and any acquisition we may consider will be subject to prior regulatory approval. Our inability to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on our profitability, return on equity and return on assets, our ability to implement our business strategy and enhance stockholder value, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 14. As a business operating in the bank and non-bank financial services industries, our business and operations may be adversely affected in numerous and complex ways by weak economic conditions.. As a business operating in the bank and non-bank financial services industries, our business and operations are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States. If the U.S. economy weakens, our growth and profitability from our lending, deposit and asset management services could be constrained. Uncertainty about the federal fiscal policymaking process, the medium and long-term fiscal outlook of the federal and state governments (including possible ratings downgrades) and future tax rates (or other amendments to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\") or to state tax laws) is a concern for businesses, consumers and investors in the United States. In addition, economic conditions in foreign countries, including uncertainty over the stability of the Euro and Chinese Yuan currencies, could affect the stability of global financial markets, which could hinder U.S. economic growth. Weak national economic conditions are characterized by deflation, fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, a lack of liquidity and/or depressed prices in the secondary market for mortgage loans, increased delinquencies on mortgage, consumer and commercial loans, residential and commercial real estate price declines and lower home sales and commercial activity. The current economic environment is also characterized by interest rates at historically low levels, and our ability to retain or grow our deposit base could be hindered by higher market interest rates in the future. All of these factors may be detrimental to our business and the interplay between these factors can be complex and unpredictable. Our business is also significantly affected by monetary and related policies of the U.S. federal government and its agencies. Changes in any of these policies are influenced by macroeconomic conditions and other factors that are beyond our control. Adverse economic conditions and government policy responses to such conditions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Bank and non-bank financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to different industries and counterparties and through transactions with counterparties in the bank and non-bank financial services industries, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more bank or non-bank financial services companies, or the bank or non-bank financial services industries generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. These losses or defaults could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely heavily on our management team and could be adversely affected by the unexpected loss of key officers.. We are led by an experienced core management team with substantial experience in the markets that we serve and the financial products that we offer. Our operating strategy focuses on providing products and services through long-term relationship managers. Accordingly, our success depends in large part on the performance of our key personnel, as well as on our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified senior and middle management. Competition for employees is intense, and the process of locating key personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to execute our business plan may be lengthy. We may not be successful in retaining our key employees and the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market and financial products, years of industry experience, long-term customer relationships and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. If the services of any of our key personnel should become unavailable for any reason, we may not be able to identify and hire qualified persons on terms acceptable to us, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to interest rate risk, which could adversely affect our financial condition and profitability.. The majority of our banking assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and subject to risk from changes in interest rates. Like most financial institutions, our earnings are significantly dependent on our net interest income, the principal component of our earnings, which is the difference between interest earned by us from our interest earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest paid by us on our interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience \"gaps\" in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this \"gap\" will negatively impact our earnings. The impact on earnings is more adverse when the slope of the yield curve flattens, that is, when short term interest rates increase more than long-term interest rates or when long-term interest rates decrease more than short term interest rates. Many factors impact interest rates, including governmental monetary policies, inflation, recession, changes in unemployment, the money supply and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets.. 15. Interest rate increases often result in larger payment requirements for our borrowers, which increases the potential for default. At the same time, the marketability of the property securing a loan may be adversely affected by any reduced demand resulting from higher interest rates. In a declining interest rate environment, there may be an increase in prepayments on loans as borrowers refinance their loans at lower rates. Changes in interest rates also can affect the value of loans, securities and other assets. An increase in interest rates that adversely affects the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans may lead to an increase in nonperforming assets and a reduction of income recognized, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Further, when we place a loan on nonaccrual status, we reverse any accrued but unpaid interest receivable, which decreases interest income. At the same time, we continue to have a cost to fund the loan, which is reflected as interest expense, without any interest income to offset the associated funding expense. Thus, an increase in the amount of nonperforming assets would have an adverse impact on net interest income. If short term interest rates continue to remain at their historically low levels for a prolonged period and assuming longer-term interest rates fall further, we could experience net interest margin compression as our interest earning assets would continue to reprice downward while our interest bearing liability rates could fail to decline in tandem. Such an occurrence would have an adverse effect on our net interest income and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our acquisition history and continued planned acquisitions as part of our growth strategy may make it difficult for investors to evaluate our business, financial condition and results of operations and also impairs our ability to accurately forecast our future performance.. We have grown historically through multiple acquisitions, and we anticipate to continue acquisitions in the future as part of our growth strategy.  On October 15, 2013, we acquired National Bancshares, Inc. and its banking subsidiary, THE National Bank, N.A., which represented a significant portion of our total operations immediately following such acquisition.  On August 1, 2016, we completed our acquisition of ColoEast Bankshares, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiary bank, Colorado East Bank & Trust.  In 2017, we acquired nine branches in Colorado from Independent Bank Group, Inc.'s banking subsidiary, Independent Bank on October 6, 2017, and we acquired Valley Bancorp, Inc. and its subsidiary bank, Valley Bank & Trust, effective December 9, 2017. In addition, we expect additional acquisitions in the future as part of our growth strategy.  Our previous acquisitions may make it more difficult for investors to evaluate historical trends in our financial results and operating performance, as the impact of such acquisitions make it more difficult to identify organic trends that would be reflected absent such acquisitions. In addition, our strategic plan assumes additional merger and acquisition activity to improve our operating leverage and to create a partial source of excess liquidity to support our organic loan growth, which has historically grown at a faster rate than our ability to grow transactional deposits.  Consequently, predictions and forecasts about our future revenue and expense will depend in part on our ability to source and execute acquisitions, the terms of such acquisitions, and the specific attributes of the acquired companies, each of which are subject to factors outside of our control and which may vary materially depending on any future acquisition targets ultimately pursued.  Thus any predictions or forecasts about our future operations may not be as accurate as they would be if we were to pursue a primarily organic growth strategy.. New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks. A failure to successfully manage these risks may have a material adverse effect on our business.. As part of our growth strategy, we have implemented and may continue to implement new lines of business, offer new products and services within our existing lines of business or shift the focus to our asset mix. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where such product lines are not fully mature. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services and/or shifting the focus of our asset mix, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 16. Our factoring services are concentrated in the transportation industry and economic conditions or other factors negatively impacting the transportation industry could adversely affect our factoring business.. Factoring for small-to-mid-sized trucking businesses constituted approximately 77% of our total factoring portfolio as of December 31, 2017, calculated based on the gross receivables from the purchase of invoices from such trucking businesses compared to our total gross receivables in the purchase of factored receivables as of such date. Given the concentration of our factoring business in the transportation industry, economic conditions or other factors that negatively impact the transportation industry could impact our factoring revenues, as the revenues we earn from purchasing transportation invoices are directly correlated with the amount of transportation activity generated by our factoring clients (i.e., the volume of transportation invoices they are able to generate by providing their services). Reductions in economic activity will typically cause a decrease in the volume of goods in commerce available to be transported by our factoring clients. Increased costs associated with operating a trucking business, such as may be caused by increases in the prices of oil and diesel fuel, may cause a diminished demand for trucking services as our clients pass those costs along to their customers. Conversely, decreases in the price of diesel fuel may cause the size of our factoring portfolio to decrease, as the price of diesel fuel typically directly correlates with the size of the invoices we purchase from our factoring clients. Additionally, the factoring industry may not continue its historical growth and we may face increased competition. Our failure to compete effectively in our market could restrain our growth or cause us to lose market share. Any of such events could impact the returns we realize on our factoring activity or result in a decrease in the overall amount of our factoring activity and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additional regulations and rule making impacting the transportation industry may have a disproportionate impact on the small-to-mid-sized trucking businesses that comprise our primary transportation factoring clients and adversely affect our factoring business.. Our primary transportation factoring clients are small-to-mid-sized owner-operators and trucking fleets. Recently implemented federal regulations, and regulations proposed to be implemented in the future, may significantly increase the costs and expenses associated with owning or operating a trucking fleet. These regulations include rule making proposed by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration of the United States Department of Transportation (\"FMCSA\") under the Compliance, Safety, Accountability (\"CSA\") initiative, maximum hours of service limitations imposed the FMCSA, electronic log requirements, and regulations proposed by the federal Food and Drug Administration (\"FDA\") requiring increased labeling and monitoring by carriers of any commodity transported that is regulated by the FDA. The costs and burdens of compliance with these requirements will have a disproportionate impact on the small-to-mid-sized trucking businesses that comprise our client base and may force some or all of these businesses out of the market. Such an occurrence could impact the returns we realize on our factoring activity or result in a decrease in the overall amount of our factoring activity and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our asset-based lending and factoring products may expose us to an increased risk of fraud.. We rely on the structural features embedded in our asset-based lending and factoring products to mitigate the credit risk associated with such products. With respect to our asset-based loans, we limit our lending to a percentage of the customer's borrowing base assets that we believe can be readily liquidated in the event of financial distress of the borrower. With respect to our factoring products, we purchase the underlying invoices of our customers and become the direct payee under such invoices, thus transferring the credit risk in such transactions from our customers to the underlying account debtors on such invoices. In the event one or more of our customers fraudulently represents the existence or valuation of borrowing base assets in the case of an asset-based loan, or the existence or validity of an invoice we purchase in the case of a factoring transaction, we may advance more funds to such customer than we otherwise would and lose the benefit of the structural protections of our products with respect to such advances. In such event we could be exposed to material additional losses with respect to such loans or factoring products. Although we believe we have controls in place to monitor and detect fraud with respect to our asset-based lending and factoring products, there is no guarantee such controls will be effective. We have experienced fraud with respect to these products in the past and we anticipate that we will experience such fraud in the future. Losses from such fraudulent activity could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 17. Our commercial finance clients, particularly with respect to our factoring and asset-based lending product lines, may lack the operating history, cash flows or balance sheet necessary to support other financing options and may expose us to additional credit risk, especially if our additional controls for such products are ineffective in mitigating such additional risks.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio consists of commercial finance products. Some of these commercial finance products, particularly asset-based loans and our factored receivables, arise out of relationships with clients who lack the operating history, cash flows or balance sheet necessary to qualify for other financing options. We attempt to control for the additional credit risk in these relationships through credit management processes employed in connection with these transactions. However, if such controls are ineffective in controlling this additional risk or if we fail to follow the procedures we have established for managing this additional risk, we could be exposed to additional losses with respect to such product lines that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our healthcare asset-based lending product line may expose us to additional risks associated with the U.S. healthcare industry.. A portion of our asset-based loans as of December 31, 2017 were originated in the healthcare industry. The U.S. healthcare industry is currently undergoing significant regulatory changes, both at the federal and state level, including changes associated with the adoption and implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010. Such changes could negatively impact our existing healthcare asset-based loan portfolio or our ability to grow our healthcare asset-based loan portfolio in the future. For example, changes in reimbursement rates for healthcare receivables could impact the value and collectability of our healthcare loans, as such reimbursement obligations constitute the borrowing base collateral for such loans. While we believe our healthcare asset-based loans have features in place to protect against such risks (including the ability to reduce the available borrowing base or cease advances in the event of regulatory changes that jeopardize the collectability or valuation of the collateral), there is no guarantee that such protections will be effective. In addition, changes in the regulatory landscape for healthcare may cause certain service providers to leave the industry or cause consolidation in the industry that will decrease demand for our healthcare lending products. Any of such changes or occurrences could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On January 19, 2018, we entered into an agreement to sell our portfolio of healthcare asset-based loans and exit this line of business. We will however, remain subject to these risks with respect to our current portfolio of such loans pending the consummation of such sale, which is anticipated to occur in the first quarter of 2018, or if such sale were not to close in the manner that is currently anticipated.. Our agriculture loans may expose us to risk of credit defaults due to changes in commodity prices.. Our agriculture loans generally consist of (i) real estate loans secured by farmland, (ii) equipment financing for specific agriculture equipment, including irrigation systems, (iii) crop input loans primarily focused on corn, wheat and soybeans, and (iv) loans secured by cattle and other livestock.  Decreases in commodity prices, such as currently impacting the agriculture industry, may negatively affect both the cash flows of the borrowers and the value of the collateral supporting such loans.  Although we attempt to account for the possibility of such commodity price fluctuations in underwriting, structuring and monitoring our agriculture loans, there is no guarantee that efforts will be successful and we may experience increased delinquencies or defaults in this portfolio or be required to increase our provision for loan losses, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Lack of seasoning in portions of our loan portfolio could increase risk of credit defaults in the future.. As a result of our growth over the past several years, certain portions of our loan portfolio, such as the asset-based loans and equipment loans originated as part of our commercial finance portfolio, are of relatively recent origin. Loans may not begin to show signs of credit deterioration or default until they have been outstanding for some period of time, a process referred to as \"seasoning.\" As a result, a portfolio of older loans will usually behave more predictably than a newer portfolio. Because such portions of our portfolio are relatively new, the current level of delinquencies and defaults may not represent the level that may prevail as the portfolio becomes more seasoned. If delinquencies and defaults increase, we may be required to increase our provision for loan losses, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to adequately measure and limit the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio, our business and financial condition, which could adversely affect profitability.. As a part of our products and services, we make commercial and commercial real estate loans. The principal economic risk associated with each class of loans is the creditworthiness of the borrower, which is affected by the strength of the relevant business market segment, local market conditions and general economic conditions. Additional factors related to the credit quality of commercial loans include the quality of the management of the business and the borrower's ability both to properly evaluate changes in the supply and demand characteristics affecting our market for products and services and to effectively respond to those changes. Additional factors related to the credit quality of commercial real estate loans include tenant vacancy rates and the quality of management of the property. A failure to effectively measure and limit the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 18. The small-to-mid-sized businesses that comprise a material portion of our loan portfolio may have fewer resources to weather a downturn in the economy, which may impair a borrower's ability to repay a loan to us, which could materially harm our operating results.. A significant element of our growth strategy involves offering our commercial finance products to small-to-mid-sized businesses. These small-to-mid-sized businesses frequently have smaller market share than their competition, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and may experience significant volatility in operating results. Any one or more of these factors may impair the borrower's ability to repay a loan. In addition, the success of a small-to-mid-sized business often depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the business and its ability to repay a loan. Economic downturns and other events that negatively impact our market areas could cause us to incur substantial credit losses that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our concentration of large loans to certain borrowers may increase our credit risk.. While we attempt to monitor the concentration of our loan portfolio by borrower, geography and industry, we nonetheless may have concentrations in these areas that increase the risk to our loan portfolio resulting from adverse changes impacting such borrowers, geographies or industries.   For example, we have made a significant number of large loans to a small number of borrowers, resulting in a concentration of large loans to these borrowers.  Consequently, we may have significant exposure if any of these borrowers becomes unable to pay their loan obligations as a result of economic or market conditions, or personal circumstances, such as divorce or death.   In addition, a large portion of our loans are made in our community banking markets of Iowa, Illinois, Colorado, Kansas and in Texas, the home of our corporate headquarters and the majority of our commercial finance operations.   We also have lending concentrations in industries such as transportation, construction and energy services.  As a result, the performance of our portfolio could be adversely impacted by economic or market conditions affecting these geographies or industries, such as the impact of falling oil prices on the energy services industry specifically or the Texas economy more generally, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The amount of our nonperforming assets may increase significantly, resulting in additional losses and costs and expenses that will negatively affect our operations.. At December 31, 2017, we had a total of approximately $48.5 million of nonperforming assets or approximately 1.39% of total assets. Should the amount of nonperforming assets increase in the future, we may incur losses and the costs and expenses to maintain such assets likewise can be expected to increase and potentially negatively affect earnings. Any additional increase in losses due to such assets could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such effects may be particularly pronounced in a market of reduced real estate values and excess inventory.. The amount of other real estate owned (\"OREO\") may increase significantly, resulting in additional losses and costs and expenses that will negatively affect our operations.. At December 31, 2017, the amount of OREO we held totaled $9.2 million. In the event the amount of OREO should increase due to an increase in defaults on bank loans, our losses and the costs and expenses to maintain the real estate, likewise would increase. Any additional increase in losses and maintenance costs and expenses due to OREO may have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such effects may be particularly pronounced in a market of reduced real estate values and excess inventory, which may make the disposition of OREO properties more difficult, increase maintenance costs and expenses and may reduce our ultimate realization from any OREO sales, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Nonperforming assets take significant time and resources to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We generally do not record interest income on nonperforming loans or OREO, thereby adversely affecting our income and increasing loan administration costs. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related asset to the then fair value of the collateral less estimated selling costs, which may ultimately result in a loss. An increase in the level of nonperforming assets increases our risk profile and may impact the capital levels regulators believe are appropriate in light of the ensuing risk profile. While we reduce problem assets through loan workouts, restructurings and otherwise, decreases in the value of the underlying collateral, or in these borrowers' performance or financial condition, whether or not due to economic and market conditions beyond our control, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management, which may materially and adversely impact their ability to perform their other responsibilities. There can be no assurance that we will not experience future increases in nonperforming assets.. 19. Our ALLL and fair value adjustments for loans acquired in acquisitions may prove to be insufficient to absorb potential losses in our loan portfolio, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. ALLL is a valuation allowance for probable incurred credit losses. Loan losses are charged against the allowance when management believes the uncollectability of a loan balance is confirmed. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. Management estimates the allowance balance required using past loan loss experience, the nature and volume of the portfolio, information about specific borrower situations and estimated collateral values, economic conditions and other factors. The provision for loan losses is charged against earnings in order to maintain our ALLL and reflects management's best estimate of probable incurred losses inherent in our loan portfolio at the balance sheet date.. As of December 31, 2017, our ALLL as a percentage of total loans was 0.67% and as a percentage of total nonperforming loans was 48.41%. Additional loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than we have previously experienced. We may be required to take additional provisions for loan losses in the future to further supplement our ALLL, either due to management's decision to do so or requirements by our banking regulators. In addition, bank regulatory agencies will periodically review our ALLL and the value attributed to nonaccrual loans or to real estate acquired through foreclosure. Such regulatory agencies may require us to recognize future charge-offs. These adjustments could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The application of the acquisition method of accounting in our acquisitions has impacted our allowance. Under the acquisition method of accounting, all loans acquired in acquisitions were recorded in our consolidated financial statements at their fair value at the time of acquisition and the related allowance was eliminated because credit quality, among other factors, was considered in the determination of fair value. To the extent that our estimates of fair value are too high, we could incur losses associated with the acquired loans. The allowance associated with our purchased credit impaired (\"PCI\") loans reflects a deterioration in cash flows since acquisition resulting from our quarterly re-estimation of cash flows, which involves cash flow projections and significant judgment on timing of loan resolution.. A lack of liquidity could adversely affect our operations and jeopardize our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Liquidity is essential to our business. We rely on our ability to generate deposits and effectively manage the repayment and maturity schedules of our loans and investment securities, respectively, to ensure that we have adequate liquidity to fund our operations. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of our investment securities, Federal Home Loan Bank advances, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our most important source of funds consists of deposits. Deposit balances can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, we would lose a relatively low-cost source of funds, increasing our funding costs and reducing our net interest income and net income.. Other primary sources of funds consist of cash flows from operations, investment maturities and sales of investment securities and proceeds from the issuance and sale of our equity and debt securities to investors. Additional liquidity is provided by the ability to borrow from the Federal Home Loan Bank and our ability to raise brokered deposits. We also may borrow funds from third-party lenders, such as other financial institutions. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize our activities, or on terms that are acceptable to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us directly or the bank or non-bank financial services industries or economy in general, such as disruptions in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the bank or non-bank financial services industries.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately $687.2 million, or 26.2%, of our deposits consisted of interest bearing demand deposits and money market accounts. Based on past experience, we believe that our deposit accounts are relatively stable sources of funds. If we increase interest rates paid to retain deposits, our earnings may be adversely affected, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Historically, our loan portfolio has grown at a faster rate than our ability to organically grow transactional deposits in our community banking markets.  We have offset this trend in part through acquiring additional banks with excess liquidity.  If we are unable to find suitable acquisition targets meeting this profile in the future, or are unable to successfully consummate acquisitions of such targets, we will likely be required to rely on higher cost sources of funding, such as certificates of deposit, to fund continued loan growth, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, pay dividends to our stockholders or to fulfill obligations such as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations.. 20. The fair value of our investment securities can fluctuate due to factors outside of our control.. As of December 31, 2017, the fair value of our investment securities portfolio was approximately $263.1 million. Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. These factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency actions in respect to the securities, defaults by the issuer or with respect to the underlying securities and changes in market interest rates and instability in the capital markets. Any of these factors, among others, could cause other-than-temporary impairments and realized and/or unrealized losses in future periods and declines in other comprehensive income, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The process for determining whether impairment of a security is other-than-temporary usually requires complex, subjective judgments about the future financial performance and liquidity of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security.. Impairment of investment securities, goodwill, other intangible assets or deferred tax assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations.. In assessing whether the impairment of investment securities is other-than-temporary, management considers the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer and the intent and ability to retain our investment in the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value in the near term.. Under current accounting standards, goodwill is not amortized but, instead, is subject to impairment tests on at least an annual basis or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. A decline in our stock price or occurrence of a triggering event following any of our quarterly earnings releases and prior to the filing of the periodic report for that period could, under certain circumstances, cause us to perform a goodwill impairment test and result in an impairment charge being recorded for that period which was not reflected in such earnings release. In the event that we conclude that all or a portion of our goodwill may be impaired, a non-cash charge for the amount of such impairment would be recorded to earnings. Such a charge would have no impact on tangible capital. At December 31, 2017, we had goodwill of $44.1 million, representing approximately 11% of total equity.. The Company's intangible assets primarily relate to core deposits and customer relationships. Intangible assets with definite useful lives are amortized on an accelerated basis over their estimated life. Intangible assets, premises and equipment and other long-lived assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable from future undiscounted cash flows. A triggering event following any of our quarterly earnings releases and prior to the filing of the periodic report for that period could, under certain circumstances, cause us to perform an intangible asset impairment test and result in an impairment charge being recorded for that period which was not reflected in such earnings release. In the event that we conclude that all or a portion of our intangible assets may be impaired, a non-cash charge for the amount of such impairment would be recorded to earnings. Such a charge would have no impact on tangible capital. At December 31, 2017, we had intangible assets of $19.7 million, representing approximately 5% of total equity.. In assessing the potential for realization of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Assessing the need for, or the sufficiency of, a valuation allowance requires management to evaluate all available evidence, both negative and positive, including the recent trend of quarterly earnings. Positive evidence necessary to overcome the negative evidence includes whether future taxable income in sufficient amounts and character within the carryback and carryforward periods is available under the tax law, including the use of tax planning strategies. When negative evidence (e.g., cumulative losses in recent years, history of operating loss or tax credit carryforwards expiring unused) exists, more positive evidence than negative evidence will be necessary. We have concluded that, based on the level of positive evidence, it is more likely than not that at December 31, 2017 all but $0.3 million which is recorded as a valuation allowance of the deferred tax asset will be realized. At December 31, 2017, net deferred tax assets were approximately $9.0 million. The impact of each of these impairment matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 21. Our risk management strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposures in all market environments or against all types of risk.. We have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our risk management strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. As our products and services change and grow and the markets in which we operate evolve, our risk management strategies may not always adapt to those changes. Some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior and management's judgment. As a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. In addition, our limited operating history reduces the historical information on which to predict future results or trends. Management of market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal, regulatory and compliance risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the timing of such outcomes. Any of these circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks for environmental liability apply to the properties under consideration as well as properties that are contiguous or upgradient to the subject properties.. In the course of our business, we may purchase real estate in connection with our acquisition and expansion efforts, or we may foreclose on and take title to real estate that serves as collateral on loans we make. As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to those properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or we may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property.. The cost of removal or abatement may not substantially exceed the value of the affected properties or the loans secured by those properties, that we may not have adequate remedies against the prior owners or other responsible parties and we may not be able to resell the affected properties either before or after completion of any such removal or abatement procedures. If material environmental problems are discovered before foreclosure, we generally will not foreclose on the related collateral or will transfer ownership of the loan to a subsidiary. It should be noted, however, that the transfer of the property or loans to a subsidiary may not protect us from environmental liability. Furthermore, despite these actions on our part, the value of the property as collateral will generally be substantially reduced and, as a result, we may suffer a loss upon collection of the loan. Currently, we are not a party to any legal proceedings involving potential liability to us under applicable environmental laws. Any significant environmental liabilities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face significant competition to attract and retain customers, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability.. We operate in the highly competitive bank and non-bank financial services industries and face significant competition for customers from bank and non-bank competitors, particularly regional and nationwide institutions, including U.S. banks, mortgage banking companies, consumer finance companies, credit unions, insurance companies and other institutional lenders and purchasers of loans in originating loans, attracting deposits and providing other financial services. Many of our competitors are significantly larger and have significantly more resources, greater name recognition and more extensive and established branch networks than we do. Because of their scale, many of these competitors can be more aggressive than we can on loan and deposit pricing. Also, many of our non-bank competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. We expect competition to continue to intensify due to financial institution consolidation; legislative, regulatory and technological changes; and the emergence of alternative banking sources.. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on a number of factors, including, among other things:. •  our ability to build and maintain long-term customer relationships while ensuring high ethical standards and safe and sound banking practices;. •  the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services that we offer;. •  customer satisfaction with our products and services;. •  industry and general economic trends; and. •  our ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology.. 22. Increased competition could require us to increase the rates that we pay on deposits or lower the rates that we offer on loans, which could reduce our profitability. Our failure to compete effectively in our market could restrain our growth or cause us to lose market share, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures could be affected if the judgments, assumptions or estimates used in our critical accounting policies are inaccurate.. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosure in conformity with GAAP requires us to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies, which are included in Item 7 of this report captioned \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\", describe those significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements that we consider \"critical\" because they require judgments, assumptions and estimates that materially affect our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. As a result, if future events differ significantly from the judgments, assumptions and estimates in our critical accounting policies, those events or assumptions could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.. Additionally, as a result of our recent acquisitions, our financial results are heavily influenced by the application of the acquisition method of accounting. The acquisition method of accounting requires management to make assumptions regarding the assets purchased and liabilities assumed to determine their fair value. If our assumptions are incorrect, any resulting change or modification could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to correct any material weakness that we subsequently identify in our internal control over financial reporting or otherwise fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately and timely, in which case our business may be harmed, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the price of our common stock may decline.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting and for evaluating and reporting on our system of internal control. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP. As a public company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules that govern public companies. In particular, we are required to certify our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires us to furnish annually a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, unless we remain an emerging growth company and elect additional transitional relief available to emerging growth companies, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future, if we cannot comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner or attest that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting when required, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately and timely. As a result, investors, counterparties and customers may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports; our liquidity, access to capital markets and perceptions of our creditworthiness could be adversely affected; and the market price of our common stock could decline. In addition, we could become subject to investigations by the stock exchange on which our securities are listed, the SEC, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources. These events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face significant operational risks due to the high volume and the high dollar value nature of transactions we process.. We operate in many different businesses in diverse markets and rely on the ability of our employees and systems to process transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside our Company, the execution of unauthorized transactions, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of our internal control systems, compliance failures, business continuation and disaster recovery issues and other external events. Insurance coverage may not be available for such losses, or where available, such losses may exceed insurance limits. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, we could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action and suffer damage to our reputation.. 23. To the extent we engage in derivative transactions, we will be exposed to credit and market risk, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.. While we do not currently engage in derivative or hedging activity, we may in the future manage interest rate risk by, among other things, utilizing derivative instruments to minimize significant unplanned fluctuations in earnings that are caused by interest rate volatility. To the extent we engage in derivative transactions, we will be exposed to credit and market risk. If the counterparty fails to perform, credit risk exists to the extent of the fair value gain in the derivative. Market risk exists to the extent that interest rates change in ways that are significantly different from what we expect when we enter into the derivative transaction. The existence of credit and market risk associated with any derivative instruments we enter into could adversely affect our net interest income and, therefore, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. System failure or cyber security breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other potential losses.. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to hardware and cyber security issues. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event. We could also experience a breach by intentional or negligent conduct on the part of employees or other internal sources. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect the computer systems and network infrastructure utilized by us, including our Internet banking activities, against damage from physical break-ins, cyber security breaches and other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users. Such computer break-ins and other disruptions would jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability, damage our reputation and inhibit the use of our Internet banking services by current and potential customers. We regularly add additional security measures to our computer systems and network infrastructure to mitigate the possibility of cyber security breaches, including firewalls and penetration testing. However, it is difficult or impossible to defend against every risk being posed by changing technologies as well as criminal intent on committing cyber-crime. Increasing sophistication of cyber criminals and terrorists make keeping up with new threats difficult and could result in a breach. Controls employed by our information technology department and cloud vendors could prove inadequate. A breach of our security that results in unauthorized access to our data could expose us to a disruption or challenges relating to our daily operations, as well as to data loss, litigation, damages, fines and penalties, significant increases in compliance costs and reputational damage, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If our trademarks and trade names are not adequately protected, or if we are deemed to infringe the trademarks or trade names of others, then we may not be able to build name recognition in our markets of interest and our business may be adversely affected.. Our registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names may be challenged, infringed, or determined to be infringing on other marks. Competitors may have adopted or may adopt trade names or trademarks similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to market confusion. In addition, there could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered trademarks or trademarks that incorporate variations of our registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names. Additionally, our efforts to enforce or protect our proprietary rights related to trademarks, trade secrets, domain names, copyrights or other intellectual property may be ineffective and could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources.  Each of the foregoing could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations.. We are subject to litigation, which could result in substantial judgment or settlement costs and legal expenses.. We are regularly involved in litigation matters in the ordinary course of business. We believe that these litigation matters should not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or future prospects. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to successfully defend or resolve any current or future litigation matters, in which case those litigation matters could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 24. We may invest in CLO securities or CLO warehouse financing structures, which may expose us to losses in connection with such investments.. As part of our relationship with our former Triumph Capital Advisors subsidiary, we currently hold investments in certain CLO subordinated notes or preference shares or other CLO securities, and may continue to make such investments in the future. The subordinated notes or preference shares of a CLO are usually entitled to all of the income generated by the CLO after the CLO pays all of the interest due on the debt notes and its expenses. However, there will be little or no income available to the CLO subordinated notes or preference shares if there are defaults on the underlying collateral in excess of certain amounts or if the recoveries on such defaulted collateral are less than certain amounts. Similarly, any investment we make in debt securities of a CLO that are junior to other debt securities of the entity will be payable only in the event that the underlying collateral generates sufficient income to make the interest payments on the securities of the CLO that are senior to any such junior debt instruments. Consequently, the value of any investment we make in the subordinated notes, preference shares or other debt securities of CLOs could decrease substantially depending on the performance of the underlying collateral in such CLO. In addition, the subordinated notes, preference shares and other debt securities of CLOs are generally illiquid, and because they represent a leveraged investment in the CLO's assets, their value will generally fluctuate more than the values of the underlying collateral.  As of December 31, 2017, we had investments with a carrying amount of $8.6 million in the subordinated notes of three CLOs.. In addition, we have historically, and may in the future, invest in the subordinated notes or preference shares of CLO warehouse financing structures.  Such investments will be entitled to all income generated by the underlying investments acquired during the warehouse period after the financing cost from warehouse credit facility is paid, but will bear the first loss incurred on such investments if they decrease in value and the CLO or other investment product is unable to be issued and the warehouse portfolio is liquidated. In such event, the subordinate note or preference share investors in such CLO warehouse would be exposed to losses up to the total amount of such investment if the CLO or other investment product does not close and the underlying investment pool is liquidated for a loss. Such a scenario may become more likely in times of economic distress or when the loans comprising the collateral pool of such warehouse, although still performing, may have declined in market value. Although we generally expect CLO warehouse arrangements to last approximately six to nine months before a CLO is issued, the CLO issuer may not be able to complete the issuance within the expected time frame or at all.  We did not hold any CLO warehouse investments as of December 31, 2017.. Risks Relating to the Regulation of Our Industry. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be adversely affected by the highly regulated environment in which we operate.. As a financial holding company, we are subject to federal supervision and regulation. Federal regulation of the banking industry, along with tax and accounting laws, regulations, rules and standards, may limit our operations significantly and control the methods by which we conduct business, as they limit those of other banking organizations. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public or the FDIC insurance funds, not stockholders. Regulatory requirements affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and many other aspects of our business. There are laws and regulations which restrict transactions between us and our subsidiaries. These requirements may constrain our operations and the adoption of new laws and changes to or repeal of existing laws may have a further impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Also, the burden imposed by those federal and state regulations may place banks in general and we in particular, at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors.. We are also subject to requirements with respect to the confidentiality of information obtained from clients concerning their identity, business, personal financial information, employment and other matters. We require our personnel to agree to keep all such information confidential and we monitor compliance. Failure to comply with confidentiality requirements could result in material liability and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. Bank holding companies and financial institutions are extensively regulated and currently face an uncertain regulatory environment. Applicable laws, regulations, interpretations, enforcement policies and accounting principles have been subject to significant changes in recent years and may be subject to significant future changes. We cannot assure our stockholders that such future changes will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Federal and state regulatory agencies may adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. We cannot predict the substance or effect of pending or future legislation or regulation or the application of laws and regulations to our Company. Compliance with current and potential regulation and scrutiny may significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, require us to increase our regulatory capital and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner by requiring us to expend significant time, effort and resources to ensure compliance. Additionally, evolving regulations and guidance concerning executive compensation may impose limitations on us that affect our ability to compete successfully for executive and management talent.. 25. The CFPB was created under the Dodd-Frank Act to centralize responsibility for consumer financial protection with broad rulemaking authority to administer and carry out the purposes and objectives of the \"Federal consumer financial laws and to prevent evasions thereof,\" with respect to all financial institutions that offer financial products and services to consumers. The CFPB is also authorized to prescribe rules applicable to any covered person or service provider, identifying and prohibiting acts or practices that are \"unfair, deceptive, or abusive\" in connection with any transaction with a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service (\"UDAAP authority\"). The ongoing broad rulemaking powers of the CFPB and its UDAAP authority have the potential to have a significant impact on the operations of financial institutions offering consumer financial products or services. The CFPB has indicated that they are examining proposing new rules on overdrafts and other consumer financial products or services and if any such rule limits our ability to provide such financial products or services it may have an adverse effect on our business.. In addition, given the current economic and financial environment, regulators may elect to alter the standards or the interpretation of the standards used to measure regulatory compliance or used to determine the adequacy of liquidity, certain risk management or other operational practices for bank or non-bank financial services companies. Such actions may impact our ability to implement our strategy and could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the regulatory agencies have extremely broad discretion in their interpretation of the regulations and laws and their interpretation of the quality of our loan portfolio, securities portfolio and other assets. If any regulatory agency's assessment of the quality of our assets differs from our assessment, we may be required to take additional charges that would have the effect of materially reducing our earnings, capital ratios and share price.. Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future may increase our costs and impact our business, governance structure, financial condition or results of operations.. We are subject to extensive regulation by multiple regulatory bodies. These regulations may affect the manner and terms of delivery of our services. If we do not comply with governmental regulations, we may be subject to fines, penalties, lawsuits or material restrictions on our businesses in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred, which may adversely affect our business operations. Changes in these regulations can significantly affect the services that we provide as well as our costs of compliance with such regulations. In addition, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the failure or perceived failure to comply with legal, regulatory or contractual requirements could affect our ability to attract and retain customers.. Current economic conditions, particularly in the financial markets, have resulted in government regulatory agencies and political bodies placing increased focus and scrutiny on the bank or non-bank financial services industries. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly changed the regulation of financial institutions and the bank and non-bank financial services industries. The Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations thereunder affect large and small financial institutions alike, including several provisions that will affect how community banks, thrifts and small bank and thrift holding companies will be regulated in the future.. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, imposes new capital requirements on bank holding companies; changes the base for FDIC insurance assessments to a bank's average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, rather than upon its deposit base and permanently raises the current standard deposit insurance limit to $250,000 and expands the FDIC's authority to raise insurance premiums. The legislation also calls for the FDIC to raise the ratio of reserves to deposits from 1.15% to 1.35% for deposit insurance purposes by September 30, 2020 and to \"offset the effect\" of increased assessments on insured depository institutions with assets of less than $10 billion. The Dodd-Frank Act also limits interchange fees payable on debit card transactions. The Dodd-Frank Act establishes the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau as an independent entity within the Federal Reserve, which will have broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services, including deposit products, residential mortgages, home-equity loans and credit cards and contains provisions on mortgage-related matters, such as steering incentives, determinations as to a borrower's ability to repay and prepayment penalties. The Dodd-Frank Act also includes provisions that affect corporate governance and executive compensation at all publicly traded companies and allows financial institutions to pay interest on business checking accounts. Although the applicability of certain elements of the Dodd-Frank Act is limited to institutions with more than $10 billion in assets, there can be no guarantee that such applicability will not be extended in the future or that regulators or other third parties will not seek to impose such requirements on institutions with less than $10 billion in assets.. 26. New proposals for legislation may be introduced in the U.S. Congress that could further substantially increase regulation of the bank and non-bank financial services industries, impose restrictions on the operations and general ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices, including in the areas of compensation, interest rates, financial product offerings and disclosures and have an effect on bankruptcy proceedings with respect to consumer residential real estate mortgages, among other things. Federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. Certain aspects of current or proposed regulatory or legislative changes to laws applicable to the financial industry, if enacted or adopted, may impact the profitability of our business activities, require more oversight or change certain of our business practices, including the ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads and could expose us to additional costs, including increased compliance costs. These changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes to operations to comply and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Federal and state regulators periodically examine our business and we may be required to remediate adverse examination findings.. The Federal Reserve, the FDIC, and the TDSML periodically examine our business, including our compliance with laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination, a banking agency were to determine that our financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of any of our operations had become unsatisfactory, or that we were in violation of any law or regulation, they may take a number of different remedial actions as they deem appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin \"unsafe or unsound\" practices, to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in our capital, to restrict our growth, to assess civil money penalties, to fine or remove officers and directors and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate our deposit insurance and place us into receivership or conservatorship. In addition, our asset management business is subject to inspection and examination by the SEC.  Any regulatory action against us could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments may increase.. The deposits of our bank subsidiary are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits and, accordingly, subject our bank subsidiary to the payment of FDIC deposit insurance assessments. The bank's regular assessments are based on our bank subsidiary's average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity as well as by risk classification, which includes regulatory capital levels and the level of supervisory concern. High levels of bank failures since the beginning of the financial crisis and increases in the statutory deposit insurance limits have increased resolution costs to the FDIC and put significant pressure on the Deposit Insurance Fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore the reserve ratios of the Deposit Insurance Fund, the FDIC has, in the past, increased deposit insurance assessment rates and charged a special assessment to all FDIC-insured financial institutions. Further increases in assessment rates or special assessments may occur in the future, especially if there are significant additional financial institution failures. Any future special assessments, increases in assessment rates or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums could reduce our profitability or limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Federal Reserve may require us to commit capital resources to support our subsidiary bank.. As a matter of policy, the Federal Reserve expects a bank holding company to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to a subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support such subsidiary bank. The Dodd-Frank Act codified the Federal Reserve's policy on serving as a source of financial strength. Under the \"source of strength\" doctrine, the Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to a subsidiary bank. A capital injection may be required at times when the holding company may not have the resources to provide it and therefore may be required to borrow the funds or raise capital. Any loans by a holding company to its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company's bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the institution's general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note obligations. Thus, any borrowing that must be done by the bank holding company to make a required capital injection becomes more difficult and expensive and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 27. Future acquisitions generally will require regulatory approvals and failure to obtain them would restrict our growth.. We intend to explore complementing and expanding our products and services by pursuing strategic acquisitions. Generally, any acquisition of target financial institutions, banking centers or other banking assets by us will require approval by and cooperation from, a number of governmental regulatory agencies, possibly including the Federal Reserve and the FDIC, as well as state banking regulators. In acting on applications, federal banking regulators consider, among other factors:. •  the effect of the acquisition on competition;. •  the financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, capital levels and future prospects of the applicant and the bank(s) involved;. •  the quantity and complexity of previously consummated acquisitions;. •  the managerial resources of the applicant and the bank(s) involved;. •  the convenience and needs of the community, including the record of performance under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977;. •  the effectiveness of the applicant in combating money-laundering activities;. •  the applicant's regulatory compliance record; and. •  the extent to which the acquisition would result in greater or more concentrated risks to the stability of the United States banking or financial system.. Such regulators could deny our application based on the above criteria or other considerations, which would restrict our growth, or the regulatory approvals may not be granted on terms that are acceptable to us. For example, we could be required to sell banking centers as a condition to receiving regulatory approvals and such a condition may not be acceptable to us or may reduce the benefit of any acquisition.  In addition, we may be required to make certain capital commitments to our regulators in connection with any acquisition.  The existence of such capital requirements, or the failure to meet any such requirements, may have material adverse effect on our stockholders.. Future legislation or actions could harm our competitive position.. In addition to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, various legislative bodies have also recently been considering altering the existing framework governing creditors' rights, including legislation that would result in or allow loan modifications of various sorts. Such legislation may change banking statutes and the operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business; limit or expand permissible activities; or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions and other financial institutions. We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it or any regulations would have on our activities, financial condition or results of operations.. We are subject to commercial real estate lending guidance issued by the federal banking regulators that impacts our operations and capital requirements.. The federal banking regulators have issued final guidance regarding concentrations in commercial real estate lending directed at institutions that have particularly high concentrations of commercial real estate loans within their lending portfolios. This guidance suggests that institutions whose commercial real estate loans exceed certain percentages of capital should implement heightened risk management practices appropriate to their concentration risk and may be required to maintain higher capital ratios than institutions with lower concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Based on our commercial real estate concentration as of December 31, 2017, we believe that we are operating within the guidelines. However, increases in our commercial real estate lending could subject us to additional supervisory analysis. We cannot guarantee that any risk management practices we implement will be effective to prevent losses relating to our commercial real estate portfolio. Management has implemented controls to monitor our commercial real estate lending concentrations, but we cannot predict the extent to which this guidance will continue to impact our operations or capital requirements.. 28. Regulatory initiatives regarding bank capital requirements may require heightened capital.. New regulatory capital rules, released in July 2013, implement higher minimum capital requirements for bank holding companies and banks. The new rules include a new common equity Tier 1 capital requirement and establish criteria that instruments must meet to be considered common equity Tier 1 capital, additional Tier 1 capital or Tier 2 capital. These enhancements are expected to both improve the quality and increase the quantity of capital required to be held by banking organizations, better equipping the U.S. banking system to deal with adverse economic conditions. The revised capital rules require banks and bank holding companies to maintain a minimum common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%, a total Tier 1 capital ratio of 6%, a total capital ratio of 8% and a leverage ratio of 4%. Bank holding companies are also required to hold a capital conservation buffer of common equity Tier 1 capital of 2.5% to avoid limitations on capital distributions and executive compensation payments. The revised capital rules also require banks and bank holding companies to maintain a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.5%, a total Tier 1 capital ratio of 8%, a total capital ratio of 10% and a leverage ratio of 5% to be deemed \"well capitalized\" for purposes of certain rules and prompt corrective action requirements.. The Federal Reserve may also set higher capital requirements for holding companies whose circumstances warrant it. For example, holding companies experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions are expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels, without significant reliance on intangible assets. At this time, the bank regulatory agencies are more inclined to impose higher capital requirements to meet well-capitalized standards and future regulatory change could impose higher capital standards as a routine matter. The Company's and its subsidiary's regulatory capital ratios currently are in excess of the levels established for \"well-capitalized\" institutions.. These new standards may require the Company or our bank subsidiary to maintain materially more capital, with common equity as a more predominant component, or manage the configuration of our assets and liabilities to comply with formulaic liquidity requirements. Such regulation could significantly impact our return on equity, financial condition, operations, capital position and ability to pursue business opportunities which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to numerous laws designed to protect consumers, including the CRA and fair lending laws and failure to comply with these laws could lead to a wide variety of sanctions.. The CRA, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Department of Justice and other federal agencies, including the CFPB, are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful regulatory challenge to an institution's performance under the CRA or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity, restrictions on expansion and restrictions on entering new product lines. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. Such actions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Federal, state and local consumer lending laws may restrict our ability to originate certain mortgage loans or increase our risk of liability with respect to such loans and could increase our cost of doing business.. Federal, state and local laws have been adopted that are intended to eliminate certain lending practices considered \"predatory.\" These laws prohibit practices such as steering borrowers away from more affordable products, selling unnecessary insurance to borrowers, repeatedly refinancing loans and making loans without a reasonable expectation that the borrowers will be able to repay the loans irrespective of the value of the underlying property. It is our policy not to make predatory loans, but these laws create the potential for liability with respect to our lending and loan investment activities. They increase our cost of doing business and, ultimately, may prevent us from making certain loans and cause us to reduce the average percentage rate or the points and fees on loans that we do make.. 29. We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations.. The Bank Secrecy Act, the Patriot Act and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration and IRS. We are also subject to increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including our acquisition plans. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us. Any of these results could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. There are substantial regulatory limitations on changes of control of a bank holding company.. With certain limited exceptions, federal regulations prohibit a person, a company or a group of persons deemed to be \"acting in concert\" from, directly or indirectly, acquiring more than 10% (5% if the acquirer is a bank holding company) of any class of our voting stock or obtaining the ability to control in any manner the election of a majority of our directors or otherwise direct the management or policies of our Company without prior notice or application to and the approval of the Federal Reserve. Companies investing in banks and bank holding companies receive additional review and may be required to become bank holding companies, subject to regulatory supervision. Accordingly, prospective investors must be aware of and comply with these requirements, if applicable, in connection with any purchase of shares of our common stock. These provisions effectively inhibit certain mergers or other business combinations, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. 30. Risks Relating to the Company's Common Stock. The market price of our common stock may be subject to substantial fluctuations, which may make it difficult for you to sell your shares at the volume, prices and times desired.. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile, which may make it difficult for you to resell your shares at the volume, prices and times desired. There are many factors that may impact the market price and trading volume of our common stock, including, without limitation:. •  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, financial condition or asset quality;. •  changes in economic or business conditions;. •  the effects of and changes in, trade, monetary and fiscal policies, including the interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve;. •  publication of research reports about us, our competitors or the bank and non-bank financial services industries generally, or changes in, or failure to meet, securities analysts' estimates of our financial and operating performance, or lack of research reports by industry analysts or ceasing of coverage;. •  operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us;. •  future issuances of our common stock or other securities;. •  additions or departures of key personnel;. •  proposed or adopted changes in laws, regulations or policies affecting us;. •  perceptions in the marketplace regarding our competitors and/or us;. •  our treatment as an \"emerging growth company\" under federal securities laws;. •  changes in accounting principles, policies and guidelines;. •  rapidly changing technology;. •  significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving our competitors or us;. •  other economic, competitive, governmental, regulatory and technological factors affecting our operations, pricing, products and services; and. •  other news, announcements or disclosures (whether by us or others) related to us, our competitors, our core market or the bank and non-bank financial services industries.. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, have experienced substantial fluctuations in recent years, which in many cases have been unrelated to the operating performance and prospects of particular companies. In addition, significant fluctuations in the trading volume in our common stock may cause significant price variations to occur. Increased market volatility may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock, which could make it difficult to sell your shares at the volume, prices and times desired.. Securities analysts may not continue coverage on our common stock, which could adversely affect the market for our common stock.. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about us and our business. We do not have any control over these securities analysts and they may not cover our common stock. If securities analysts do not cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect our market price. If we are covered by securities analysts and our common stock is the subject of an unfavorable report, the price of our common stock may decline. If one or more of these analysts cease to cover us or fail to publish regular reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause the price or trading volume of our common stock to decline.. 31. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and the reduced reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years from the date of our initial public offering, although we could lose that status sooner if our gross revenues exceed $1.0 billion, if we issue more than $1.0 billion in nonconvertible debt in a three-year period or if the fair value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30 before that time, in which case we would no longer be an emerging growth company as of the following December 31. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions, or if we choose to rely on additional exemptions in the future. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. The rights of our common stockholders are subordinate to the rights of the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock and any debt securities that we may issue and may be subordinate to the holders of any other class of preferred stock that we may issue in the future.. We have issued 96,576 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock. These shares have rights that are senior to our common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the preferred stock before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock must be satisfied in full before any distributions can be made to the holders of our common stock. Our board of directors has the authority to issue in the aggregate up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of each issue of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Accordingly, you should assume that any shares of preferred stock that we may issue in the future will also be senior to our common stock and could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividends that could limit our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities or incur other borrowings in the future will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, the amount, timing, nature or success of our future capital-raising efforts is uncertain. Thus, common stockholders bear the risk that our future issuances of debt or equity securities or our incurrence of other borrowings will negatively affect the market price of our common stock.. We depend on the profitability of our bank subsidiary.. Our principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock and service any of our obligations are dividends received directly from our subsidiaries. A substantial percentage of our current operations are currently conducted through our bank subsidiary. As is the case with all financial institutions, the profitability of our bank subsidiary is subject to the fluctuating cost and availability of money, changes in interest rates and in economic conditions in general. In addition, various federal and state statutes limit the amount of dividends that our bank subsidiary may pay to us, with or without regulatory approval.. We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future and our future ability to pay dividends is subject to restrictions.. We have not historically declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock since inception. Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive only such cash dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Any declaration and payment of dividends on common stock will depend upon our earnings and financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements, the general economic and regulatory climate, our ability to service any equity or debt obligations senior to the common stock and other factors deemed relevant by the board of directors. Furthermore, consistent with our business plans, growth initiatives, capital availability, projected liquidity needs and other factors, we have made and will continue to make, capital management decisions and policies that could adversely impact the amount of dividends, if any, paid to our common stockholders. We are also restricted from paying dividends on our common stock if we do not pay dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock for the same dividend period.. 32. Our board of directors intends to retain all of our earnings to promote growth and build capital. Accordingly, we do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, we are subject to certain restrictions on the payment of cash dividends as a result of banking laws, regulations and policies. Further, the Federal Reserve issued Supervisory Letter SR 09-4 on February 24, 2009 and revised as of March 27, 2009, which provides guidance on the declaration and payment of dividends, capital redemptions and capital repurchases by bank holding companies. Supervisory Letter SR 09-4 provides that, as a general matter, a financial holding company should eliminate, defer or significantly reduce its dividends, if: (1) the financial holding company's net income available to stockholders for the past four quarters, net of dividends previously paid during that period, is not sufficient to fully fund the dividends; (2) the financial holding company's prospective rate of earnings retention is not consistent with the financial holding company's capital needs and overall current and prospective financial condition; or (3) the financial holding company will not meet, or is in danger of not meeting, its minimum regulatory capital adequacy ratios. Failure to do so could result in a supervisory finding that the financial holding company is operating in an unsafe and unsound manner.. Our corporate governance documents and certain corporate and banking laws applicable to us, could make a takeover more difficult.. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and corporate and federal banking laws and regulations could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring control of our organization or conducting a proxy contest, even if those events were perceived by many of our stockholders as beneficial to their interests. These provisions, laws and regulations applicable to us:. •  enable our board of directors to issue additional shares of authorized but unissued capital stock;. •  enable our board of directors to issue \"blank check\" preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors;. •  enable our board of directors to increase the size of our board of directors and fill the vacancies created by the increase;. •  enable our board of directors to serve for three-year terms;. •  provide for a plurality voting standard in the election of directors;. •  do not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors;. •  enable our board of directors to amend our bylaws without stockholder approval;. •  do not allow for the removal of directors without cause;. •  limit the right of stockholders to call a special meeting;. •  do not allow stockholder action by less than unanimous written consent;. •  require the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the outstanding shares of common stock to approve all amendments to our charter and approve mergers and similar transactions;. •  require advance notice for director nominations and other stockholder proposals; and. •  require prior regulatory application and approval of any transaction involving control of our organization.. These provisions may discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control, including under circumstances in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the market price of our shares."
