[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Our business is subject to significant risks, including the risks and uncertainties described below. These risks and uncertainties and the other information in this Form 10 - K, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements, should be carefully considered. If any of the events described below actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected in a material way.. Risks Related to Our Business. We may not be successful in the implementation of our long - term business strategy, which could adversely affect our business and our results of operations.. Our success depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to successfully implement our long - term business strategy. Our ability to successfully implement our business strategies depends upon a significant number of factors, including but not limited to:. •  our ability to access an adequate supply of high - quality merchandise from suppliers at a competitive price;. •  our ability to deliver profitable sales;. •  our ability to make adjustments as market conditions change;. •  customer acceptance of our marketing and merchandise strategies;. •  our ability to respond to competitive pressures in our industry;. •  the ability of our management team to properly respond to the dynamics and demands of our market;. •  our ability to achieve positive cash flow, particularly during our peak inventory build - ups in advance of the holiday selling season; and. •  our employees' ability to adapt to our new strategic initiatives.. 8. Changes in economic and political conditions may adversely affect consumer spending, which could significantly harm our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. The success of our business depends, to a significant extent, upon the level of consumer spending. A number of factors beyond our control affect the level of consumer spending on merchandise that we offer, including, among other things:. •  general economic and industry conditions;. •  unemployment;. •  the housing market;. •  deterioration in consumer confidence;. •  crude oil prices that affect gasoline and diesel fuel, as well as, increases in other fuels used to support utilities;. •  efforts by our customers to reduce personal debt levels;. •  availability of consumer credit;. •  interest rates;. •  fluctuations in the financial markets;. •  tax rates and policies;. •  war, terrorism and other hostilities; and. •  consumer confidence in future economic conditions.. The merchandise we sell generally consists of discretionary items. Reduced consumer confidence and spending cut backs may result in reduced demand for our merchandise, including discretionary items, and may force us to take significant inventory markdowns. Reduced demand also may require increased selling and promotional expenses. Adverse economic conditions and any related decrease in consumer demand for our merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Any failure to identify and respond to changes in consumer trends and preferences could significantly harm our business.. The retail home furnishings and housewares industry is subject to sudden shifts in consumer trends and consumer spending. Our sales and results of operations depend in part on our ability to predict or respond to changes in trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. Although our business model allows us greater flexibility than many traditional retailers to meet consumer preferences and trends, we may not successfully do so. Any sustained failure to anticipate, identify and respond to emerging trends in consumer preferences could negatively affect our business and results of operations.. We must continuously attract buying opportunities for off - price merchandise and anticipate consumer demand as off - price merchandise becomes available, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our performance.. By their nature, specific off - price merchandise items are available from manufacturers or vendors generally on a non - recurring basis. As a result, we do not have long - term contracts with our vendors for supply, pricing or access to products, but make individual purchase decisions, which may be for large quantities. Due to economic uncertainties, some of our manufacturers and suppliers may cease operations or may otherwise become unable to continue supplying off - price merchandise on terms acceptable to us. We cannot assure that manufacturers or vendors will continue to make off - price merchandise available to us in quantities acceptable to us or that our buyers will continue to identify and take advantage of appropriate buying opportunities. In addition, if we misjudge consumer demand for products, we may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant markdowns and miss opportunities to sell more popular products. An inability to acquire suitable off - price merchandise in the future or to accurately anticipate consumer demand for such merchandise would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Our results of operations will be negatively affected if we are not successful in managing our inventory profitably.. Inventory is the largest asset on our balance sheet and represented approximately 62% of our total assets at both June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017. Efficient inventory management is a key component of our business success and profitability. To be successful, we must maintain sufficient inventory levels to meet our customers' demands without allowing those levels to increase to such an extent that the costs to store and hold the goods unduly impact our financial results. If our buying decisions do not accurately predict. 9. customer trends or purchasing actions, we may have to take unanticipated markdowns to dispose of the excess inventory, which also can adversely impact our financial results. We continue to focus on ways to reduce these risks, but we cannot assure that we will be successful in our inventory management. If we are not successful in managing our inventory balances, our results of operations may be negatively affected. We have recorded significant inventory write - downs from time to time in the past and there can be no assurances that we will not record additional inventory charges in the future.. Our results of operations will be negatively affected if we are unsuccessful in effectively managing our supply chain operations.. With few exceptions, all inventory is shipped directly from suppliers either to our distribution center in the Dallas, Texas metropolitan area, or our Phoenix distribution center, where the inventory is then processed, sorted and shipped to our stores. We depend in large part on the orderly operation of this receiving and distribution process, which depends, in turn, on adherence to shipping schedules and effective management of our distribution centers. We may not anticipate all of the changing demands which our expanding operations will impose on our receiving and distribution system.. The loss of, disruption in operations, or increased costs in the operation of our distribution center facilities would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.. Events beyond our control, such as disruptions in operations due to fire or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements or shipping problems, may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores. We also cannot assure that our insurance will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be paid to us in a timely manner, in the event a distribution center is shut down for any reason.. The unplanned loss or departure of one or more members of our senior management or other key management could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our future performance will depend in large part upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management and other key employees. The loss of service of these persons could have a material adverse effect on our business and future prospects. We do not maintain key person life insurance for our senior management.  We cannot provide any assurance that we will not experience future turnover related to our senior management team.. Our business is intensely competitive, and a number of different competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. The retail home furnishings and housewares industry is intensely competitive. As an off - price retailer of home furnishings and housewares, we currently compete against a diverse group of retailers, including department stores and discount stores, specialty, on - line, and catalog retailers and mass merchants, which sell, among other products, home furnishing, houseware and related products similar and often identical to those we sell. We also compete in particular markets with a substantial number of retailers that specialize in one or more types of home furnishing and houseware products that we sell. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources that may, among other things, increase their ability to purchase inventory at lower costs or to initiate and sustain aggressive price competition.. A number of different competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including:. •  increased operational efficiencies of competitors;. •  competitive pricing strategies, including deep discount pricing by a broad range of retailers during periods of poor consumer confidence or economic uncertainty;. •  continued and prolonged promotional activity by competitors;. •  liquidation sales by a number of our competitors who have filed or may file in the future for bankruptcy;. •  expansion by existing competitors;. •  entry of new competitors into markets in which we currently operate; and. •  adoption by existing competitors of innovative store formats or retail sales methods.. We cannot assure that we will be able to continue to compete successfully with our existing or new competitors, or that prolonged periods of deep discount pricing by our competitors will not materially harm our business. We compete for customers, employees, locations, merchandise, services and other important aspects of our business with many other local, regional, national and. 10. international retailers. We also face competition from alternative retail distribution channels such as catalogs and, increasingly, e - commerce websites and mobile device applications. Changes in the merchandising, pricing and promotional activities of those competitors, and in the retail industry, in general, may adversely affect our performance.. If we are unable to successfully execute our strategy of relocating and expanding existing stores and when appropriate, opening new stores, our operating performance could be adversely impacted.. As part of our business strategy, we intend to pursue relocation opportunities to improve our existing store base as well as open new stores that will offset the closing of lower performing stores as they come up for renewal. However, we cannot assure that we will be able to achieve our relocation goals or that we will be able to operate any new or relocated stores profitably. Further, we cannot assure that any new or relocated store will achieve similar operating results to those of our existing stores or that new, relocated or expanded stores opened in markets in which we operate will not have a material adverse effect on the net sales and profitability of our existing store base.. The success of our store development strategy will be dependent upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following:. •  the ability of our personnel to adequately analyze and identify suitable markets and individual store sites within those markets;. •  the competition for suitable store sites;. •  our ability to negotiate favorable lease terms with landlords;. •  our ability to obtain governmental and other third - party consents, permits and licenses needed to operate our stores;. •  the availability of employees to staff new stores and our ability to hire, train, motivate and retain store personnel;. •  the availability of adequate management and financial resources to properly manage a large volume of stores;. •  our ability to adapt our distribution and other operational and management systems to a changing network of stores;. •  our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels in our stores;. •  our ability to attract customers and generate sales sufficient to operate new, relocated or expanded stores profitably;. •  our ability to renew existing leases; and. •  our ability to successfully negotiate the termination of leases without significant negative financial impact.. While we opened stores in existing markets during fiscal 2018, 2017, and 2016, we also opened stores in new markets during that time period. These markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer trends and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets, which may cause our new stores in these markets to be less successful than stores in our existing markets.. Increases in fuel prices and changes in transportation industry regulations or conditions may increase our freight costs and thus our cost of sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.. Our freight costs are impacted by changes in fuel prices through surcharges. Fuel prices and surcharges affect freight costs both on inbound freight from vendors to our distribution centers and outbound freight from our distribution centers to our stores. In addition, the U.S. government requires drivers of over - the - road trucks to take certain rest periods which reduces the available amount of time they can drive during a 24 - hour period. Changes in trucking industry conditions, such as truck driver shortages and highway congestion, could increase freight costs. High fuel prices or surcharges, as well as stringent driver regulations and changes in transportation industry conditions, may increase freight costs and thereby increase our cost of sales.. If we are not able to generate strong cash flows from our operations or to continue to access credit markets, we will not be able to support capital expansion, operations or debt repayment.. Our business is dependent upon our operations generating strong cash flows to support capital expansion requirements and general operating activities. In addition, we have a credit agreement providing for a revolving credit facility in the amount of up to $180.0 million. The revolving credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants, and if borrowing availability falls below certain thresholds, a financial covenant. If we are unable to comply with the revolving credit facility, we may not be able to obtain an alternate source of funding on satisfactory terms, if at all. Our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash flows to support these. 11. activities or the lack of availability of financing in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms could adversely affect our financial performance.. An increase in the cost or a disruption in the flow of our imported products may significantly decrease our sales and profits.. Merchandise manufactured and imported from overseas represents the majority of our total product purchases acquired both domestically and internationally. A disruption in the shipping of imported merchandise or an increase in the cost of those products may significantly decrease our sales and profits. In addition, if imported merchandise becomes more expensive or unavailable, the transition to alternative sources may not occur in time to meet our demands. Products from alternative sources may also be of lesser quality and more expensive than those we currently import.. Risks associated with our reliance on imported products include disruptions in the shipping and importation or increases in the costs of imported products because of factors such as:. •  raw material shortages;. •  work stoppages;. •  strikes and political unrest;. •  problems with oceanic shipping, including shipping container shortages;. •  increased customs inspections of import shipments or other factors causing delays in shipments;. •  merchandise quality or safety issues;. •  economic crises;. •  international disputes, wars, and terrorism;. •  loss of \"most favored nation\" trading status by the United States in relation to a particular foreign country;. •  natural disasters;. •  import duties and tariffs;. •  foreign government regulations;. •  import quotas and other trade sanctions; and. •  increases in shipping rates.. The products we buy abroad are sometimes priced in foreign currencies and, therefore, we are affected by fluctuating exchange rates. We might not be able to successfully protect ourselves in the future against currency rate fluctuations, and our financial performance could suffer as a result.. Changes to federal tax policy may adversely impact our operations and financial performance.. The U.S. federal government continues to analyze comprehensive tax reform options that could negatively impact companies that directly or indirectly import goods and on July 10, 2018, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative proposed a 10% tariff on additional classes of products imported to the U.S. from China.  The Company sources a portion of its products from multiple countries, including China. The Company is evaluating strategies to mitigate the impact of the proposed tariff, including reviewing sourcing options as well as collaborative efforts with its vendor partners.   Major developments in tax policy or trade relations, such as the disallowance of tax deductions for imported merchandise or the imposition of unilateral tariffs on imported products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.. Our success depends upon our marketing, advertising and promotional efforts. If we are unable to implement them successfully, or if our competitors are more effective than we are, our results of operations may be adversely affected.. We use marketing and promotional programs to attract customers to our stores and to encourage purchases by our customers. We use various media for our promotional efforts, including newspaper, database marketing, email, direct marketing, and other digital communications such as online social networks. If we fail to choose the appropriate medium for our efforts, or fail to implement and execute new marketing opportunities, our competitors may be able to attract some of our customers and cause them to decrease purchases from us and increase purchases elsewhere, which would negatively impact our net sales. Changes in the amount and degree. 12. of promotional intensity or merchandising strategy by our competitors could cause us to have some difficulties in retaining existing customers and attracting new customers.. If we do not attract, train and retain quality employees in appropriate numbers, including key employees and management, our performance could be adversely affected.. Our performance is dependent on recruiting, developing, training and retaining quality sales, distribution center and other employees in large numbers, as well as, experienced buying and management personnel. Many of our employees are in entry level or part - time positions with historically high rates of turnover. Our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors, such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, and changes in rules governing eligibility for overtime and changing demographics. In the event of increasing wage rates, if we do not increase our wages competitively, our staffing levels and customer service could suffer because of a declining quality of our workforce, or our earnings would decrease if we increase our wage rates, whether in response to market demands or new minimum wage legislation. Changes that adversely impact our ability to attract and retain quality employees and management personnel could adversely affect our performance.. Our results of operations are subject to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or the market price of our common stock.. Our business is subject to seasonality with a higher level of net sales and operating income generated during the quarter ended December 31, which includes the holiday shopping season. Net sales in the quarters ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015 accounted for approximately 33%, 34% and 33% of our annual net sales for fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  For more information about our seasonality, please read Item 7 \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Quarterly Results and Seasonality.\". Because a significant percentage of our net sales and operating income are generated in the quarter ending December 31, we have limited ability to compensate for shortfalls in December quarter sales or earnings by changes in our operations or strategies in other quarters. A significant shortfall in results for the quarter ending December 31 of any year could have a material adverse effect on our annual results of operations and on the market price of our common stock. In addition, in anticipation of higher sales during this period, we purchase substantial amounts of seasonal inventory and hire many temporary employees. An excess of seasonal merchandise inventory could result if our net sales during this principal selling season were to fall below either seasonal norms or expectations. If our December quarter sales results are substantially below expectations, our financial performance and operating results could be adversely affected by unanticipated markdowns, particularly in seasonal merchandise. Lower than anticipated sales in the principal selling season would also negatively affect our ability to absorb the increased seasonal labor costs.. Our quarterly results of operations may also fluctuate significantly based on additional factors, such as:. •  the timing of new store openings;. •  the amount of net sales contributed by new and existing stores;. •  the success of our store expansion and relocation program;. •  the timing of certain holidays and advertised events;. •  changes in our merchandise mix and inventory levels;. •  general economic, industry and weather conditions that affect consumer spending; and. •  actions of competitors, including promotional activity.. These factors could also have a material adverse effect on our annual results of operations and on the market price of our common stock.. If we are unable to maintain and protect our information technology systems and technologies, we could suffer disruptions in our business, damage to our reputation, increased costs and liability, and obstacles to our growth.. The operation of our business is heavily dependent upon the implementation, integrity, security, and successful functioning of our computer networks and information systems, including the point - of - sale systems in our stores, data centers that process transactions, and various software applications used in our operations.  Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from weather events, power outages, telecommunications or computer failures, computer viruses, security breaches, employee errors and similar occurrences. A failure of our systems to operate effectively as a result of damage to, interruption, or failure of any of these. 13. systems could result in data loss, a failure to meet our reporting obligations, or material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements, or cause losses due to disruption of our business operations and loss of customer confidence. These adverse situations could also lead to loss of sales or profits or cause us to incur additional repair, replacement and development costs.  Our inability to improve our information technology systems and technologies may fail to support our growth and may limit opportunities.. If we fail to protect the security of information about our business and our customers, suppliers, business partners and employees, we could damage our reputation and our business, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation and government investigations and enforcement actions.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, on our computer networks and information systems.  The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations.  Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure and that of our service providers may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions.  Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and are becoming increasingly sophisticated. Any such attack or breach could compromise our security and remain undetected for a period of time, and confidential information could be misappropriated, resulting in a loss of customers', suppliers', business partners' or employees' personal information, negative publicity, harm to our business and reputation, and potentially causing us to incur costs to reimburse third parties for damages and potentially subjecting us to government investigations and enforcement actions. In addition, the regulatory environment surrounding data and information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, as new and revised requirements are frequently imposed across our business. Compliance with more demanding privacy and information security laws and standards may result in significant expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes, and implementing new initiatives could result in system disruptions. We maintain cyber risk insurance, but this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our losses from any future breaches of our systems.. We are subject to various government regulations, changes in the existing laws and regulations and new laws and regulations which may adversely affect our operations and financial performance.. The development and operation of our stores are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations in many areas of our business, including, but not limited to, those that impose restrictions, levy a fee or tax, or require a permit or license, or other regulatory approval, and building and zoning requirements. Difficulties or failures in obtaining required permits, licenses or other regulatory approvals could delay or prevent the opening of a new store, and the suspension of, or inability to renew, a license or permit could interrupt operations at an existing store. We are also subject to laws governing our relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, health insurance mandates, working and safety conditions, and immigration status requirements.  Additionally, changes in federal labor laws could result in portions of our workforce being subjected to greater organized labor influence. This could result in an increase to our labor costs. A significant portion of our store personnel are paid at rates related to the minimum wage established by federal, state and municipal law. Additionally, we are subject to certain laws and regulations that govern our handling of customers' personal information. A failure to protect the integrity and security of our customers' personal information could expose us to private litigation and government investigations and enforcement actions, as well as materially damage our reputation with our customers. While we endeavor to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, governmental and regulatory bodies may change such laws and regulations in the future which may require us to incur substantial cost increases. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to various sanctions, penalties or fines and may be required to cease operations until we achieve compliance which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial results and operations.. We face litigation risks from customers, employees, and other third parties in the ordinary course of business.. Our business is subject to the risk of litigation by customers, current and former employees, suppliers, stockholders and others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions, or other litigation. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend future litigation may be significant. There may also be adverse publicity associated with litigation that could decrease customer acceptance of merchandise offerings, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable.. 14. We face risks with respect to product liability claims and product recalls, which could adversely affect our reputation, our business, and our consolidated results of operations.. We purchase merchandise from third parties and offer this merchandise to customers for sale. In addition, we currently expect to develop and manufacture certain merchandise for sale, initially on a very limited basis. Merchandise could be subject to recalls and other actions by regulatory authorities. Changes in laws and regulations could also impact the type of merchandise we offer to customers. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, issues that result in recalls of merchandise. In addition, in the past, individuals have asserted claims, and may in the future assert claims, that they have sustained injuries from third - party merchandise offered by us, and we may be subject to future lawsuits relating to these claims. There is a risk that these claims or liabilities may exceed, or fall outside the scope of, our insurance coverage. Any of the issues mentioned above could result in damage to our reputation, diversion of development and management resources, or reduced sales and increased costs, any of which could harm our business.. Our stores may be adversely affected by local conditions, natural disasters, and other events.. Certain regions in which our stores are located may be subject to adverse local conditions, natural disasters, and other events. If severe weather, such as heavy snowfall or extreme temperatures, discourages or restricts customers in a particular region from traveling to our stores, our sales could be adversely affected. If severe weather conditions occur during the second quarter of our fiscal year, the adverse impact to our sales and profitability could be even greater than at other times during the year because we generate a significant portion of our sales and profits during this period. Natural disasters including tornados, hurricanes, floods, and earthquakes may damage our stores, corporate office, and distribution facilities or other operations, which may adversely affect our financial results. Additionally, demographic shifts in the areas where our stores are located could adversely impact our financial results and operations.. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by inventory shrinkage.. We are subject to the risk of inventory loss and theft. Although our inventory shrinkage rates have not fluctuated significantly in recent years, we cannot assure that actual rates of inventory loss and theft in the future will be within our estimates or that the measures we are taking will effectively reduce the problem of inventory shrinkage. Although some level of inventory shrinkage is an unavoidable cost of doing business, if we were to experience higher rates of inventory shrinkage or incur increased security costs to combat inventory theft, our results of operations could be affected adversely.. Our results of operations may be negatively impacted by exposure to unexpected costs related to our insurance programs.. Our insurance coverage is subject to deductibles, self-insured retentions, limits of liability and similar provisions that we believe are prudent based on our overall operations. We may incur certain types of losses that we cannot insure or which we believe are not economically reasonable to insure, such as losses due to acts of war and terrorism, employee and certain other crime, and some natural disasters. If we incur these losses and they are material, our business could suffer. Certain material events may result in sizable losses for the insurance industry and adversely impact the availability of adequate insurance coverage or result in excessive premium increases. To offset negative cost trends in the insurance market, we may elect to self-insure, accept higher deductibles or reduce the amount of coverage in response to these market changes. In addition, we self-insure a significant portion of expected losses under our workers' compensation, general liability, including automobile, and group health insurance programs. Unanticipated changes in any applicable actuarial assumptions and management estimates underlying our recorded liabilities for these self-insured losses, including potential increases in medical and indemnity costs, could result in significantly different expenses than expected under these programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we continue to maintain property insurance for catastrophic events, we are self-insured for losses up to the amount of our deductibles. If we experience a greater number of self-insured losses than we anticipate, our financial performance could be adversely affected.. Our sales depend on a volume of traffic to our stores, and a reduction in traffic to, or the closing of, anchor tenants and other destination retailers in the shopping centers in which our stores are located could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory.. Most of our stores are located in shopping centers that benefit from varied and complementary tenants, whether specialty or mass retailers, and other destination retailers and attractions to generate sufficient levels of consumer traffic near our stores. Any decline in the volume of consumer traffic at shopping centers, whether because of consumer preferences to shop on the internet or at large warehouse stores, an economic slowdown, a decline in the popularity of shopping centers, the closing of anchor stores or other destination retailers or otherwise, could result in reduced sales at our stores and leave us with excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results or business.. 15. We are subject to customer payment-related risks that could increase operating costs or exposure to fraud or theft, subject us to potential liability and potentially disrupt our business.. We accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, credit and debit cards, gift cards, gift certificates and store credits. Acceptance of these payment options subjects us to rules, regulations, contractual obligations and compliance requirements, including payment network rules and operating guidelines, data security standards and certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers. In October 2015, the payment card industry shifted liability for certain debit and credit card transactions to retailers who are not able to accept EMV chip technology transactions. Any inability to accept EMV chip technology transactions may subject us to increased risk of liability for fraudulent transactions and may adversely affect our business and operating results.. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, and other forms of electronic payment. If these companies become unable to provide these services to us, or if their systems are compromised, it could potentially disrupt our business. The payment methods that we offer also subject us to potential fraud and theft by criminals, who are becoming increasingly more sophisticated, seeking to obtain unauthorized access to or exploit weaknesses that may exist in the payment systems.  If we fail to comply with applicable rules or requirements for the payment methods we accept, or if payment-related data is compromised due to a breach or misuse of data, we may be liable for costs incurred by payment card issuing banks and other third parties or subject to fines and higher transaction fees, or our ability to accept or facilitate certain types of payments may be impaired. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in certain payment types, which may result in a shift to other payment types or potential changes to our payment systems that may result in higher costs. As a result, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our certificate of incorporation, and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws will have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following:. •  the ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of our common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval (subject to applicable NASDAQ requirements);. •  a requirement that stockholder meetings may only be called by our President, Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Board or at the written request of a majority of the directors then in office and not our stockholders;. •  a prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates;. •  the ability of our Board of Directors to make, alter or repeal our bylaws without further stockholder approval; and. •  the requirement for advance notice for nominations for directors to our Board of Directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. Because we do not presently have any plans to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment.. We have not paid a regular cash dividend since 2008 and do not presently have any plans to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment. This appreciation may not occur.. The price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially over the past several years and may continue to fluctuate substantially in the future.. From July 1, 2017 to June 30, 2018, the trading prices of our common stock ranged from a low of $1.65 per share to a high of $4.10 per share. We expect our stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control, which have been included throughout this Annual Report on Form 10 - K. We may fail to meet the expectations of our stockholders or securities analysts at some time in the future, and our stock price could decline as well.. 16"
