[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Prospective investors should consider carefully the risk factors set forth below before making an investment in the Company's securities.. Risks related to transactions. Disney Transaction and Creation of New Fox. The Transaction may cause disruption in the Company's business.. On June 20, 2018, the Company entered into the Amended and Restated Merger Agreement with Disney, which amends and restates in its entirety the Agreement and Plan of Merger that the Company entered into with Disney in December 2017. Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Merger Agreement, the Company will, after completing the New Fox Separation and the New Fox Distribution, become a wholly-owned subsidiary of New Disney (see Item 1  -  Background under the heading \"Business\" and Note 3  -  Acquisitions, Disposals and Other Transactions to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements of Twenty-First Century Fox under the heading \"Disney Transaction/Distribution of New Fox\" for further details). The Amended and Restated Merger Agreement generally requires the Company to operate its business in the ordinary course pending consummation of the Mergers and restricts the Company, without Disney's consent, from taking certain specified actions until the Transaction is consummated or the Amended and Restated Merger Agreement is terminated, including making certain acquisitions and divestitures, entering into certain contracts, incurring certain indebtedness and expenditures, paying dividends in excess of certain thresholds, and repurchasing or issuing securities outside of existing equity award programs. These restrictions may affect the Company's ability to execute its business strategies and attain its financial and other goals and may impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In connection with the pending Transaction, current and prospective employees of the Company may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the Company (and Disney) or New Fox following the consummation of the Transaction, which may materially adversely affect the ability of the Company to attract, retain and motivate key personnel while the Transaction is pending. Despite the Company's retention planning and programs that the Company has and will implement, key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration with Disney and the New Fox Separation and establishment of New Fox, or a desire not to remain with the Company (and Disney) or New Fox following the consummation of the Transaction. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to attract and retain key employees to the same extent that the Company has been able to in the past.. The proposed Transaction further could cause disruptions to the Company's business or business relationships (including the business to be conducted by, and business relationships of, New Fox after the consummation of the transactions), which could have an adverse impact on the Company's businesses, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. In addition, the risk, and adverse effect, of such. 27. disruptions could be exacerbated by a delay in the consummation of the Transaction or a termination of the Amended and Restated Merger Agreement. Parties with which the Company has business relationships may experience uncertainty as to the future of such relationships and may delay or defer certain business decisions, seek alternative relationships with third parties or seek to alter their present business relationships with the Company. Parties with whom the Company otherwise may have sought to establish business relationships may seek alternative relationships with third parties.. The pursuit of the proposed Transaction and the preparation for both the integration with Disney and the establishment of New Fox may place a significant burden on the Company's management and internal resources. The diversion of management's attention away from day-to-day business concerns could adversely affect the Company's financial results.. The Company has incurred and expects to continue to incur significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the Transaction. The substantial majority of these costs will be non-recurring expenses relating to the Transaction, including costs relating to the New Fox Separation, and many of these costs are payable regardless of whether or not the Transaction is consummated. The Company is currently subject to certain litigation related to the proposed Transaction as described in Item 3  -  Legal Proceedings, and the Company could be subject to additional litigation, which could result in significant costs and expenses. Even if the proposed Transaction is not consummated, these risks may materialize and may adversely affect the Company's businesses, financial condition, financial results and stock price.. Failure to consummate the Transaction in a timely manner or at all could negatively impact the market price of the Company's common stock, as well as the Company's future business and its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company currently anticipates the Transaction will be consummated in the first half of calendar year 2019, but it cannot be certain when or if the conditions for the Transaction will be satisfied or (if permissible under applicable law) waived. The Transaction cannot be consummated until the conditions to closing are satisfied or (if permissible under applicable law) waived, including (i) receipt of certain required governmental approvals and consents, (ii) receipt by the Company of a surplus and solvency opinion with respect to the New Fox Separation and the cash dividend in connection with the Transaction, (iii) effectiveness of registration statements with respect to the New Fox Distribution and the issuance of New Disney shares in connection with the Transaction, (iv) authorization of New Disney and New Fox shares for listing on NYSE or NASDAQ, as applicable, (v) the consummation of the New Fox Separation and Distribution, (vi) receipt of certain tax opinions by each of the Company and Disney with respect to the treatment of the transactions under U.S. and Australian tax laws, including a legal opinion on the intended tax treatment of the Transaction and (vii) the accuracy of the representations and warranties made by the Company or Disney, as applicable, in the Amended and Restated Merger Agreement. The obligation of Disney to consummate the Transaction is also subject to, among other conditions, the absence of regulatory authorities requiring Disney to take certain actions.. The satisfaction of the required conditions could delay the consummation of the Transaction for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring. Further, there can be no assurance that the conditions to the closing of the Transaction will be satisfied or waived or that the Transaction will be consummated.. In the event that the Transaction is not consummated for any reason, (i) the holders of the Company's common stock will not receive any consideration for their shares of the Company's common stock in connection with the proposed Transaction and (ii) the New Fox Separation and Distribution of New Fox will not occur and the holders of the Company's common stock will not receive shares in New Fox. Instead, the Company will remain an independent public company and holders of the Company's common stock will continue to own their shares of the Company's common stock.. 28. Additionally, if the proposed Transaction is not consummated in a timely manner or at all, the Company's ongoing business may be adversely affected as follows:. •  the Company may experience negative reactions from financial markets and the stock price could decline;. •  it may experience negative reactions from employees, customers, suppliers or other third parties;. •  management's focus would have been diverted from pursuing other opportunities that could have been beneficial to the Company; and. •  the Company's costs of pursuing the Transaction may be higher than anticipated and, in any event, would be borne entirely by the Company.. If the Transaction is not consummated, there can be no assurance that these risks will not materialize and will not materially adversely affect the Company's stock price, business, financial conditions, results of operations or cash flows.. In order to consummate the Transaction, Disney and the Company must obtain certain governmental approvals, and if such approvals are not granted or are granted with conditions, consummation of the Transaction may be jeopardized or the anticipated benefits of the Transaction could be reduced.. Although Disney and the Company have agreed to use reasonable best efforts, subject to certain limitations, to make certain governmental filings and obtain the governmental approvals or expirations or earlier termination of applicable waiting periods, as the case may be, there can be no assurance that the applicable waiting periods will expire or be terminated or that the applicable approvals will be obtained. As a condition to approving the Transaction, governmental authorities may impose conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions or require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company's business after consummation of the Transaction, including those which Disney may not be required to accept pursuant to the terms of the Amended and Restated Merger Agreement. Disney has agreed to accept certain restrictions on certain of its and the Company's assets if and to the extent necessary to obtain the governmental regulatory approvals required to consummate the Transaction, as described in the Amended and Restated Merger Agreement. There can be no assurance that regulators will not impose conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions and that such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not have the effect of delaying or preventing consummation of the Transaction or imposing additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenues of the combined company following the Transaction, or otherwise adversely affecting, including to a material extent, the combined company's businesses and results of operations after consummation of the Transaction. If the Company and Disney are required to divest assets or businesses, there can be no assurance that they will be able to negotiate such divestitures expeditiously or on favorable terms or that the governmental authorities will approve the terms of such divestitures. The Company can provide no assurance that these conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not result in the abandonment of the Transaction.. 29. Sky Acquisition. The Sky Acquisition Involves a Number of Risks, including, among others, the Risk that the Sky Acquisition is Not Completed on a Timely Basis, or at All, and Risks Associated with the Company's Use of a Significant Portion of its Cash and Taking on Significant Additional Indebtedness.. The Sky Acquisition is conditional on, among other things, the Company securing valid acceptances of the Increased Offer in respect of Sky shares which represent 75% or more of the Sky shares that the Company does not own. The Company reserves the right to reduce this acceptance condition to a level which is not less than a simple majority of all Sky shares (including those held by the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries). The Sky Acquisition has received unconditional clearance by all competent competition authorities including the European Commission, and has been cleared on public interest and plurality grounds. In addition, on July 12, 2018, the Sky Acquisition received approval by the Secretary of State, subject to accepted undertakings regarding the divestment of and financial support for Sky News as described in Note 3  -  Acquisitions, Disposals and Other Transactions to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements of Twenty-First Century Fox under the heading \"Sky Acquisition\".. The Company cannot predict whether and when any of the outstanding conditions will be satisfied and/or whether Sky shareholders will ultimately decide to support the Sky Acquisition or the Comcast Offer. If the Sky Acquisition does not receive, or timely receive, the requisite acceptance of Sky shareholders unaffiliated with the Company, any delay or failure to complete the Sky Acquisition and the acquisition process may cause uncertainty or other negative consequences that may adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations and the price per share for the Company's common stock could be negatively impacted.. In addition, the Sky Acquisition will require the use of a significant portion of the Company's cash and increase the amount of debt on the Company's balance sheet leading to substantial additional interest expense. These factors could limit the Company's flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and reduce funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. If the Sky Acquisition is completed but the financial performance of the Company after the Sky Acquisition does not meet management's current expectations, the Company's ability to reduce its level of indebtedness may be adversely impacted. More information regarding risks related to financing the Sky Acquisition and paying the consideration to the Sky shareholders in Pounds Sterling is set forth below in the risk factor describing the Company's exposure to risks associated with weak domestic and global economic conditions and increased volatility and disruption in the financial markets and in the risk factor describing the adverse effect that fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could have on the Company's cash flows and results of operations.. Risks related to our business. The Company Must Respond to Changes in Consumer Behavior as a Result of New Technologies in Order to Remain Competitive.. Technology, particularly digital technology used in the entertainment industry, continues to evolve rapidly, leading to alternative methods for the delivery and storage of digital content. These technological advancements have driven changes in consumer behavior and have empowered consumers to seek more control over when, where and how they consume digital content. Content owners are increasingly delivering their content directly to consumers over the Internet and innovations in distribution platforms have enabled consumers to view such Internet-delivered content on televisions and portable devices. The growth of direct to consumer video offerings, including video-on-demand, downloadable content and simultaneous live streaming of broadcast content including on social media, offerings by cable providers of smaller packages of programming to customers at price points lower than traditional cable distribution offerings and the trend of consumers \"cord-cutting\" or cancelling their multi-channel video programming distributors (\"MVPD\") subscriptions could adversely affect demand for our cable channels. Enhanced Internet capabilities and other new media may reduce television viewership, the demand for home entertainment and the desire to see motion pictures in theaters, which could negatively affect the Company's revenues. In addition, increased video consumption through streaming apps, digital MVPD. 30. services and social media with no advertising or less advertising than on video programming networks, time shifted viewing of television programming and the use of DVRs to skip advertisements could also negatively affect the Company's advertising revenues. There is a risk that the Company's responses to these changes and strategies to remain competitive, or failure to effectively anticipate or adapt to new market changes, could adversely affect our business. The Company's failure to protect and exploit the value of its content, while responding to and developing new technology and business models to take advantage of advancements in technology and the latest consumer preferences, could have a significant adverse effect on the Company's businesses, asset values and results of operations.. Acceptance of the Company's Content, Including Its Films and Television Programming, by the Public is Difficult to Predict, Which Could Lead to Fluctuations in Revenues.. Feature film and television production and distribution are speculative businesses since the revenues derived from the production and distribution of a feature film or television series depend primarily upon its acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a feature film or television program also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing films and television programming released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of a growing number of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and their effects on consumer spending and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which can change and cannot be predicted with certainty. Further, the theatrical success of a feature film and the audience ratings for a television program are generally key factors in generating revenues from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment and premium pay television, with respect to feature films, and content licensing and syndication, with respect to television programming. In addition, a decline in the ratings or popularity of the Company's entertainment, sports or news television programming, which could be a result of the loss of talent or rights to certain programming, could adversely affect advertising revenues in the near term and, over a longer period of time, adversely affect affiliate revenues.. The Company's Businesses Operate in Highly Competitive Industry.. The Company competes with other media companies for content to achieve large audiences and distribution relationships, and to generate advertising revenue. The Company also competes for distribution on various multichannel video programming distributors and other third-party digital platforms. The Company's ability to attract viewers and advertisers and obtain favorable distribution depends in part on its ability to provide popular television programming and motion pictures and adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms, which are increasing the number of media and entertainment choices available to audiences. Competition for audiences and/or advertising comes from: broadcast television networks; cable television systems and networks; film studios; Internet-delivered free, advertising supported, subscription and rental services; other sources of information and entertainment; radio; print and other media. Increased competition from additional entrants into the market for development and production of original programming may increase our costs of development and production including obtaining creative and technical personnel. Increased competition in the acquisition of programming may also affect the scope of rights we are able to acquire and the cost of such rights, and the value of the rights we acquire or retain cannot be predicted with certainty in the future. The Company cannot be assured that it will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that competition or consolidation in the marketplace will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations.. The Inability to Renew Sports Programming Rights Could Cause the Company's Affiliate and Advertising Revenue to Decline Significantly in any Given Period or in Specific Markets.. The sports rights contracts between the Company, on the one hand, and various professional sports leagues and teams, on the other, have varying duration and renewal terms. As these contracts expire, renewals on favorable terms may be sought; however, third parties may outbid the current rights holders for the rights contracts. In addition, professional sports leagues or teams may create their own networks or the renewal costs could substantially exceed the original contract cost. The loss of rights or renewal on less favorable terms could impact the extent of the sports coverage offered by the Company and its. 31. affiliates, as it relates to FOX, and could adversely affect the Company's advertising and affiliate revenues. Upon renewal, the Company's results could be adversely affected if escalations in sports programming rights costs are unmatched by increases in advertising rates and, in the case of cable networks, subscriber fees.. A Decline in Advertising Expenditures Could Cause the Company's Revenues and Operating Results to Decline Significantly in any Given Period or in Specific Markets.. The Company derives substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on or in its television stations and broadcast and cable networks. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. A decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers' spending priorities. Demand for the Company's products is also a factor in determining advertising rates. For example, ratings points for the Company's television stations and broadcast and cable networks are factors that are weighed when determining advertising rates, and with respect to the Company's television stations and broadcast and television networks, when determining the affiliate rates received by the Company. In addition, newer technologies, including new video formats, streaming and downloading capabilities via the Internet, video-on-demand, personal video recorders and other devices and technologies are increasing the number of media and entertainment choices available to audiences. Some of these devices and technologies allow users to view television or motion pictures from a remote location or on a time-delayed basis and provide users the ability to fast-forward, rewind, pause and skip programming and advertisements. These technological developments could affect the attractiveness of the Company's offerings to viewers, advertisers and/or distributors. Failure to effectively anticipate or adapt to emerging technologies or changes in consumer behavior could have an adverse effect on our business. Further, a decrease in advertising expenditures, reduced demand for the Company's offerings or the inability to obtain market ratings that adequately measure demand for the Company's content on personal video recorders and mobile devices could lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's businesses and assets.. The Loss of Carriage Agreements Could Cause the Company's Revenue and Operating Results to Decline Significantly in any Given Period or in Specific Markets.. The Company's broadcast stations and cable networks maintain affiliation and carriage arrangements that enable them to reach a large percentage of households through cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite operators, telecommunications companies and online video distributors. The loss of a significant number of these arrangements or the loss of carriage on basic programming tiers could reduce the distribution of the Company's broadcast stations and cable networks, which may adversely affect those networks' revenues from affiliate fees and their ability to sell national and local advertising time. Further, the loss of favorable packaging, positioning, pricing or other marketing opportunities with any distributor could reduce revenues from subscriber fees. Also, consolidation among MVPDs and increased vertical integration of such distributors into the cable or broadcast network business have provided more leverage to these distributors and could adversely affect the Company's ability to maintain or obtain distribution for its network programming or distribution and/or marketing of its subscription program services on favorable or commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The Company is dependent upon the maintenance of affiliation agreements with third party owned television stations and there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms acceptable to the Company. The loss of a significant number of these affiliation arrangements could reduce the distribution of FOX and MyNetworkTV and adversely affect the Company's ability to sell national advertising time.. 32. The Company Relies on Network and Information Systems and Other Technology Whose Degradation, Failure or Misuse, Could Cause a Disruption of Services or Improper Disclosure of Personal Data, Business Information, Including Intellectual Property, or Other Confidential Information, Resulting in Increased Costs or Loss of Revenue.. Network and information systems and other technologies, including those related to the Company's network management, are important to its business activities. Network and information systems-related events, such as computer hacking and phishing, theft, computer viruses, ransomware, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, process breakdowns, denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering or other malicious activities, or any combination of the foregoing, as well as power outages, natural or other disasters (including extreme weather), terrorist activities or human error that may affect such systems, could result in disruption of our services or improper disclosure of personal data, business information, including intellectual property, or other confidential information. In recent years, there has been a rise in the number of sophisticated cyber attacks on network and information systems, and as a result, the risks associated with such an event continue to increase. The Company has experienced, and expects to continue to be subject to, cybersecurity threats and incidents, none of which has been material to the Company to date. While we continue to develop, implement and maintain security measures seeking to prevent unauthorized access to or misuse of our network and information systems, such efforts may not be successful in preventing these events from occurring given that the techniques used to access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently. The development and maintenance of these measures is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. Significant security breaches, such as misappropriation, misuse, alteration, theft, loss, leakage, falsification, accidental or premature release, or otherwise improper disclosure of information maintained in the Company's information systems and networks or those of our vendors, including financial, personal, confidential and proprietary information relating to personnel, customers, vendors and our business, including our intellectual property, or a degradation or interruption in the technologies and networks that facilitate content distribution could result in a disruption of our operations, customer or advertiser dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation or brands, regulatory investigations, claims, lawsuits or loss of customers or revenue. In addition, the Company may be subject to liability under relevant contractual obligations and laws and regulations protecting personal data and privacy, may be required to expend significant resources to remedy any such security breach, and while the Company maintains insurance to assist in the cost of recovery in the event of a security breach, the Company may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate it for any losses that may occur.. Technological Developments May Increase the Threat of Content Piracy and Signal Theft and Limit the Company's Ability to Protect Its Intellectual Property Rights.. Content piracy and signal theft present a threat to the Company's revenues from products and services, including, but not limited to, films, television shows, cable and other programming, as well as pre-release content. The Company seeks to limit the threat of content piracy as well as cable and direct broadcast satellite programming signal theft; however, policing unauthorized use of the Company's products and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken by the Company may not in every case prevent infringement. Developments in technology, including digital copying, file compression technology, growing penetration of high-bandwidth Internet connections, increased availability and speed of mobile data networks, and new devices and applications that enable unauthorized access to content, increase the threat of content piracy by making it easier to access, duplicate, widely distribute and store high-quality pirated material. In addition, developments in software or devices that circumvent encryption technology and the falling prices of devices incorporating such technologies increase the threat of unauthorized use and distribution of direct broadcast satellite programming signals and the proliferation of user-generated content sites and live and stored video streaming sites, which deliver unauthorized copies of copyrighted content, including those emanating from other countries in various languages, may adversely impact the Company's businesses. The proliferation of unauthorized distribution and use of the Company's content could have an adverse effect on the Company's businesses and profitability because it reduces the revenue that the Company could potentially receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of its products and services.. 33. The Company has taken, and will continue to take, a variety of actions to combat piracy and signal theft, both individually and, in some instances, together with industry associations. However, protection of the Company's intellectual property rights is dependent on the scope and duration of the Company's rights as defined by applicable laws in the United States and abroad and the manner in which those laws are construed. If those laws are drafted or interpreted in ways that limit the extent or duration of the Company's rights, or if existing laws are changed, the Company's ability to generate revenue from intellectual property may decrease, or the cost of obtaining and enforcing our rights may increase. A change in the laws of one jurisdiction may also have an impact on the Company's overall ability to protect its intellectual property rights across other jurisdictions. In addition, many parts of the world where piracy is prevalent lack effective copyright and other legal protections or enforcement measures. There can be no assurance that the Company's efforts to enforce its rights and protect its products, services and intellectual property will be successful in preventing content piracy or signal theft. Further, while piracy and the proliferation of piracy-enabling technology tools continue to escalate, if any U.S. or international laws intended to combat piracy and protect intellectual property are repealed or weakened or not adequately enforced, or if the applicable legal systems fail to evolve and adapt to new technologies that facilitate piracy, we may be unable to effectively protect our rights and the value of our intellectual property may be negatively impacted, and our costs of enforcing our rights could increase.. Fluctuations in Foreign Exchange Rates Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Company's Cash Flows and Results of Operations.. The Company has significant operations in a number of foreign jurisdictions and certain of the Company's operations are conducted in foreign currencies. The Company has acquired and may in the future acquire assets and businesses using foreign currencies. The value of these currencies fluctuates relative to the U.S. dollar. As a result, the Company is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which could have an adverse effect on its cash flows and results of operations in a given period or in specific markets. As part of the Sky Acquisition, the Company will be obligated to pay the Sky shareholders cash consideration in Pounds Sterling thereby increasing the Company's exposure to exchange rate fluctuations for Pounds Sterling. The UK began the formal two-year process of exiting the European Union in March 2017, which could lead to additional political and economic instability that may contribute to volatility in the value of Pounds Sterling and other foreign exchange markets. Even though the Company uses foreign currency derivative instruments to hedge certain exposures to foreign currency exchange rate risks, and has purchased a foreign currency exchange option to limit its foreign currency exchange rate risk in connection with the Sky Acquisition, the use of such derivative instruments may not be effective in reducing the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates. In addition, countries where we have operations may be classified in the future to be highly inflationary economies, requiring special accounting and financial reporting treatment for such operations. The Argentine Peso has been designated highly inflationary and will be accounted for as such starting July 1, 2018.. Labor Disputes May Have an Adverse Effect on the Company's Business.. In a variety of the Company's businesses, the Company and its partners engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements, including employees of the Company's film and television studio operations. If the Company or its partners are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. Such actions, as well as higher costs in connection with these collective bargaining agreements or a significant labor dispute, could have an adverse effect on the Company's business by causing delays in production or by reducing profit margins.. Changes in U.S. or Foreign Regulations May Have an Adverse Effect on the Company's Business.. The Company is subject to a variety of U.S. and foreign regulations in the jurisdictions in which its businesses operate. In general, the television broadcasting and multichannel video programming and distribution industries in the United States are highly regulated by federal laws and regulations issued and. 34. administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. The FCC generally regulates, among other things, the ownership of media, broadcast and multichannel video programming and technical operations of broadcast licensees. Our program services and online properties are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to issues such as content regulation, user privacy and data protection, and consumer protection, among others. Further, the United States Congress, the FCC and state legislatures currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters, including technological changes and measures relating to network neutrality, privacy and data security, which could, directly or indirectly, affect the operations and ownership of the Company's U.S. media properties. Similarly, new laws or regulations or changes in interpretations of law or in regulations imposed by governments in other jurisdictions in which the Company, or entities in which the Company has an interest, operate could require changes in the operations or ownership of our media properties. Laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions which regulate, among other things, licensing arrangements, local content requirements, carriage requirements regarding pricing and distribution, and limitations on advertising time, may impact the operations and results of our international businesses. In addition, the GDPR applies as of May 25, 2018 and will tighten regulation of the collection, use and security of personal data and will continue to restrict the trans-border flow of such data while increasing the potential fines for non-compliance. We have committed significant resources to ensure that we are in compliance with the GDPR but, particularly given the complexity of both the GDPR and our business, as well as the uncertainties that accompany new, comprehensive legislation, the GDPR could affect the operations and results of the Company's businesses or result in claims despite our efforts.. In addition, changes in laws, regulations or the interpretations thereof in the U.S. and other jurisdictions in which the Company has operations could affect the Company's results of operations.. U.S. Citizenship Requirements May Limit Common Stock Ownership and Voting Rights.. The Company owns broadcast station licensees in connection with its ownership and operation of U.S. television stations. Under U.S. law, no broadcast station licensee may be owned by a corporation if more than 25% of its stock is owned or voted by non-U.S. persons, their representatives, or by any other corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country. The Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the Board of Directors to prevent, cure or mitigate the effect of stock ownership above the applicable foreign ownership threshold by taking any action including: refusing to permit any transfer of common stock to or ownership of common stock by a non-U.S. stockholder; voiding a transfer of common stock to a non-U.S. stockholder; suspending rights of stock ownership if held by a non-U.S. stockholder; or redeeming common stock held by a non-U.S. stockholder. The Company is currently in compliance with applicable U.S. law and continues to monitor its foreign ownership based on its assessment of the information reasonably available to it, but it is not able to predict whether it will need to take action pursuant to its Restated Certificate of Incorporation. The FCC could review the Company's compliance with applicable U.S. law in connection with its consideration of the Company's renewal applications for licenses to operate the broadcast stations the Company owns.. The Company Could Be Subject to Significant Additional Tax Liabilities.. We are subject to taxation in U.S. federal, state and local jurisdictions and many non-U.S. jurisdictions. Changes in tax laws, regulations, practices or the interpretations thereof could affect the Company's results of operations. Judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for taxes. In addition, transactions occur during the ordinary course of business or otherwise for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.. Our tax returns are routinely audited, tax-related litigation or settlements may occur, and U.S. or foreign jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against us. The final outcomes of tax audits, investigations, and any related litigation could result in materially different tax recognition from our historical tax provisions and accruals. These outcomes could conflict with private letter rulings, opinions of counsel or other interpretations provided to the Company. If these matters are adversely resolved, we may be required to recognize additional charges to our tax provisions and pay significant additional. 35. amounts with respect to current or prior periods or our taxes in the future could increase, which could affect our operating results and financial condition.. In connection with the News Corp Separation, the Company received a private letter ruling from the IRS and an opinion from Hogan Lovells US LLP confirming the tax-free status of the distribution and related internal transactions for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Notwithstanding the private letter ruling and the opinion, the IRS could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions or representations relied upon for the private letter ruling is not correct or has been violated. If these transactions are determined to be taxable, the Company would recognize gains on the internal reorganization and/or recognize gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of shares of the News Corp common stock distributed to our stockholders on the distribution date over our tax basis in such shares of our common stock. In addition, other tax authorities could determine on audit that the distribution or the related internal reorganizations should be treated as taxable transactions.. Under the terms of a tax sharing and indemnification agreement that we entered into in connection with the News Corp Separation, we are required to indemnify News Corp against U.S. consolidated and combined tax liabilities attributable to all tax periods or portions thereof prior to June 29, 2013. Disputes or assessments could arise during future audits by the IRS that could give rise to indemnification obligations under this agreement in amounts that we cannot quantify.. In addition, on December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted the comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"). The changes included in the Tax Act are broad and complex. As permitted by guidance issued by the SEC, we will finalize the recording of the related impacts of the Tax Act prior to the date that is one year after the enactment date of the Tax Act. For fiscal 2018, the Company recorded a provisional income tax benefit to adjust its net deferred tax liability position, a provisional liability for the transition tax to a territorial tax system and a provisional valuation allowance for foreign tax credits that it does not expect to be able to utilize before they expire in accordance with the Tax Act. The Company may make adjustments to the provisional amounts recorded during this measurement period and such adjustments could possibly be material. For additional information regarding the Tax Act, see Note 2  -  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements of Twenty-First Century Fox under the heading \"U.S. Tax Reform\".. The Company is Exposed to Risks Associated with Weak Domestic and Global Economic Conditions and Increased Volatility and Disruption in the Financial Markets.. The Company's businesses, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by weak domestic and global economic conditions. Factors that affect economic conditions include the rate of unemployment, the level of consumer confidence, changes in consumer spending habits, political uncertainties and potential changes in trade relationships between the U.S. and other countries. The Company also faces risks, including currency volatility and the stability of global local economies, associated with the impact of weak domestic and global economic conditions on advertisers, affiliates, suppliers, wholesale distributors, retailers, insurers, theater operators and others with which it does business.. Increased volatility and disruptions in the financial markets could make it more difficult and more expensive for the Company to refinance outstanding indebtedness and obtain new financing, including financing for the Sky Acquisition. While the Company has entered into a bridge credit agreement, dated as of December 15, 2016 and as amended on July 11, 2018 (the \"Bridge Credit Agreement\"), we may obtain permanent financing in the capital markets to fund a portion of the purchase price for the Sky Acquisition in lieu of utilizing funds available under the Bridge Credit Agreement or to prepay funds drawn under the Bridge Credit Agreement, but we cannot guarantee that the Company will obtain such permanent financing on terms that are acceptable to the Company or at all. If we are not successful in obtaining permanent financing due to market conditions or other factors and utilize funds under the Bridge Credit Agreement, we will incur significantly higher borrowing costs than the contemplated permanent. 36. financing in the capital markets, which may have an adverse impact on our business. See Note 3  -  Acquisitions, Disposals and Other Transactions to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements of Twenty-First Century Fox under the heading \"Sky Acquisition\".. Disruptions in the financial markets can also adversely affect the Company's lenders, insurers, customers and counterparties, including vendors, retailers and film co-financing partners. For instance, the inability of the Company's counterparties to obtain capital on acceptable terms could impair their ability to perform under their agreements with the Company and lead to negative effects on the Company, including business disruptions, decreased revenues and increases in bad debt expenses.. The Company Could Suffer Losses Due to Asset Impairment Charges for Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Programming.. In accordance with applicable generally accepted accounting principles, the Company performs an annual impairment assessment of its recorded goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, including FCC licenses. The Company also continually evaluates whether current factors or indicators, such as the prevailing conditions in the capital markets, require the performance of an interim impairment assessment of those assets, as well as other investments and other long-lived assets. Any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in advertising revenue and/or the expected popularity of the programming for which the Company has acquired rights could lead to a downward revision in the fair value of certain reporting units. A downward revision in the fair value of a reporting unit, indefinite-lived intangible assets, investments or long-lived assets could result in an impairment and a non-cash charge would be required. Any such charge could be material to the Company's reported net earnings.. Certain of Our Directors and Officers May Have Actual or Potential Conflicts of Interest Because of Their Equity Ownership in News Corp, and Certain of Our Officers and Directors May Have Actual or Potential Conflicts of Interest Because They Also Serve as Officers and/or on the Board of Directors of News Corp.. Certain of our directors and executive officers own shares of News Corp's common stock, and the individual holdings may be significant for some of these individuals compared to their total assets. In addition, certain of our officers and directors also serve as officers and/or as directors of News Corp, including our Executive Chairmen K. Rupert Murdoch, who serves as News Corp's Executive Chairman, and Lachlan K. Murdoch, who serves as News Corp's Co-Chairman, and our Chief Executive Officer James Murdoch, who serves as a director of News Corp. This ownership or service to both companies may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for News Corp and us. In addition to any other arrangements that the Company and News Corp may agree to implement, the Company and News Corp agreed that officers and directors who serve at both companies will recuse themselves from decisions where conflicts arise due to their positions at both companies.. 37"
