[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The Company’s business involves risk. The following information about these risks should be considered carefully together with other information contained in this report. The risks described below are not the only risks the Company faces. Additional risks not currently known, deemed immaterial or that could apply to any issuer may also result in adverse results for the Company’s business.. As a global company, the Company is subject to currency fluctuations and any significant movement between the U.S. dollar and the euro, in particular, could have an adverse effect on its profitability.  Although the Company’s financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, a significant portion of its sales and operating costs are realized in euros and other foreign currencies. The Company’s profitability is affected by movements of the U.S. dollar against the euro and the other currencies in which it generates revenues and incurs expenses. Significant long-term fluctuations in relative currency values, in particular a significant change in the relative values of the U.S. dollar or euro, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s profitability and financial condition. While the long-term impacts of the United Kingdom’s vote to exit the European Union (commonly known as “Brexit”) are currently unknown, any resulting unfavorable currency impact to the euro could have an adverse effect on the Company’s profitability and financial condition.. Certain of the Company’s products are directly or indirectly used in oil exploration and oil drilling, and are thus dependent upon the strength of those markets and oil prices.  In recent years, the Company has seen significant variations in the sales of its products that are used in oil and energy related markets. The variability in these markets has been defined by the change in oil prices and the global demand for oil. Significant decreases in oil prices and reduced demand for oil and capital investment in the oil and energy markets adversely affect the sales of these products and the Company’s profitability. The cyclical nature of the global oil and gas market presents the ongoing possibility of a severe cutback in demand, which would create a significant adverse effect on the sales of these products and ultimately on the Company’s profitability.. Many of the Company’s product markets are cyclical in nature or are otherwise sensitive to volatile or variable factors. A downturn or weakness in overall economic activity or fluctuations in those other factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s overall financial performance. Historically, sales of many of the products that the Company manufactures and sells have been subject to cyclical variations caused by changes in general economic conditions and other factors. In particular, the Company sells its products to customers primarily in the pleasure craft, commercial and military marine markets, as well as in the energy and natural resources, government and industrial markets. The demand for the products may be impacted by the strength of the economy generally, governmental spending and appropriations, including security and defense outlays, fuel prices, interest rates, as well as many other factors. Adverse economic and other conditions may cause the Company's customers to forego or otherwise postpone purchases in favor of repairing existing equipment.. 5. In the event of an increase in the global demand for steel, the Company could be adversely affected if it experiences shortages of raw castings and forgings used in the manufacturing of its products.  With the continued development of certain developing economies, in particular China and India, the global demand for steel has risen significantly in recent years. The Company selects its suppliers based on a number of criteria, and the Company expects that they will be able to support its growing needs. However, there can be no assurance that a significant increase in demand, capacity constraints or other issues experienced by the Company’s suppliers will not result in shortages or delays in their supply of raw materials to the Company. If the Company were to experience a significant or prolonged shortage of critical components from any of its suppliers, particularly those who are sole sources, and could not procure the components from other sources, the Company would be unable to meet its production schedules for some of its key products and would miss product delivery dates which would adversely affect its sales, profitability and relationships with its customers.. The Company continues to face the prospect of increasing commodity costs, including steel, other raw materials and energy that could have an adverse effect on future profitability. In addition, recent developments in tariff regulations in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions have resulted in uncertainty regarding international trade policies and future commodity prices, contributing to an increased risk of higher commodity costs that could have an adverse impact on the Company’s profitability, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s profitability is dependent, in part, on commodity costs. To date, the Company has been successful with offsetting the effects of increased commodity costs through cost reduction programs and pricing actions. However, if material prices were to continue to increase at a rate that could not be recouped through product pricing, it could potentially have an adverse effect on the Company’s future profitability.. The current United States administration has signaled support for implementing, and in some instances, has already proposed or taken action with respect to, major changes to certain trade policies, such as the imposition of additional tariffs on imported products and the withdrawal from or renegotiation of certain trade agreements, including the North American Free Trade Agreement. On March 8, 2018, the President of the United States signed an order to impose a tariff of 25% on steel imported from certain countries. On July 1, 2018, Canada implemented retaliatory tariffs on certain U.S. imports, including steel. The Company anticipates that the tariff could result in an increase in its cost of sales and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to pass any of the increases in raw material costs directly resulting from the tariff to its customers. In addition, there could be additional tariffs imposed by the United States and these could also result in additional retaliatory actions by the United States’ trade partners. Given that it procures many of the raw materials that it uses to create its products directly or indirectly from outside of the United States, the imposition of tariffs and other potential changes in U.S. trade policy could increase the cost or limit the availability of such raw materials, which could hurt its competitive position and adversely impact its business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Company sells a significant proportion of its products to customers outside of the United States. Retaliatory actions by other countries could result in increases in the price of its products, which could limit demand for such products, hurt its global competitive position and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.. If the Company were to lose business with any key customers, the Company’s business would be adversely affected. Although there was only one customer, Palmer Johnson Power Systems, LLC, that accounted for 10% or more of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2018, deterioration of a business relationship with one or more of the Company’s significant customers would cause its sales and profitability to be adversely affected.. The termination of relationships with the Company’s suppliers, or the inability of such suppliers to perform, could disrupt its business and have an adverse effect on its ability to manufacture and deliver products. The Company relies on raw materials, component parts, and services supplied by outside third parties. If a supplier of significant raw materials, component parts or services were to terminate its relationship with the Company, or otherwise cease supplying raw materials, component parts, or services consistent with past practice, the Company’s ability to meet its obligations to its customers may be affected. Such a disruption with respect to numerous products, or with respect to a few significant products, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s profitability and financial condition.. A significant design, manufacturing or supplier quality issue could result in recalls or other actions by the Company that could adversely affect profitability.  As a manufacturer of highly engineered products, the performance, reliability and productivity of the Company’s products is one of its competitive advantages. While the Company prides itself on putting in place procedures to ensure the quality and performance of its products and suppliers, a significant quality or product issue, whether due to design, performance, manufacturing or supplier quality issue, could lead to warranty actions, scrapping of raw materials, finished goods or returned products, the deterioration in a customer relationship, or other action that could adversely affect warranty and quality costs, future sales and profitability.. 6. The Company faces risks associated with its international sales and operations that could adversely affect its business, results of operations or financial condition. Sales to customers outside the United States approximated 41% of the Company’s consolidated net sales for fiscal 2018. The Company has international manufacturing operations in Belgium, Italy, the Netherlands and Switzerland. In addition, the Company has international distribution operations in Singapore, China, Australia, Japan, Italy, Belgium, India and Canada. The Company’s international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks, including:. currency exchange rate fluctuations. export and import duties, changes to import and export regulations, and restrictions on the transfer of funds. problems with the transportation or delivery of its products. issues arising from cultural or language differences. potential labor unrest. longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivables. compliance with trade and other laws in a variety of jurisdictions. changes in tax law. These factors could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition.. A material disruption at the Company’s manufacturing facilities in Racine, Wisconsin could adversely affect its ability to generate sales and meet customer demand. The majority of the Company’s manufacturing, based on fiscal 2018 sales, came from its facilities in Racine, Wisconsin. If operations at these facilities were to be disrupted as a result of significant equipment failures, natural disasters, power outages, fires, explosions, adverse weather conditions or other reasons, the Company’s business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Interruptions in production would increase costs and reduce sales. Any interruption in production capability could require the Company to make substantial capital expenditures to remedy the situation, which could negatively affect its profitability and financial condition. The Company maintains property damage insurance which it believes to be adequate to provide for reconstruction of its facilities and equipment, as well as business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from any production interruption or shutdown caused by an insured loss. However, any recovery under this insurance policy may not offset the lost sales or increased costs that may be experienced during the disruption of operations. Lost sales may not be recoverable under the policy and long-term business disruptions could result in a loss of customers. If this were to occur, future sales levels and costs of doing business, and therefore profitability, could be adversely affected.. Any failure to meet debt obligations and maintain adequate asset-based borrowing capacity could adversely affect the Company’s business and financial condition. The Company’s five-year revolving credit facility entered into on June 29, 2018 is secured by certain personal property assets such as accounts receivable, inventory, and machinery and equipment. Under this agreement, the Company’s borrowing capacity is based on the eligible balances of these assets and it is required to maintain sufficient borrowing base at all times to secure its outstanding borrowings. As of June 30, 2018, the Company had a borrowing capacity that exceeded its outstanding loan balance (see Note G of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Based on its annual financial plan, the Company believes that it will generate sufficient cash flow levels throughout fiscal 2019 in order to maintain compliance with this borrowing base. However, as with all forward-looking information, there can be no assurance that the Company will achieve the planned results in future periods especially due to the significant uncertainties flowing from the current economic environment. If the Company is not able to achieve these objectives and to meet the required covenants under the agreements, the Company may require forbearance from its existing lenders in the form of waivers and/or amendments of its credit facilities or be required to arrange alternative financing. Failure to obtain relief from covenant violations or to obtain alternative financing, if necessary, would have a material adverse impact on the Company.. The Company has made certain assumptions relating to the acquisition of Veth Propulsion in its forecasts that may prove to be materially inaccurate. The Company has made certain assumptions relating to the forecast level of synergies and associated costs of the acquisition of Veth Propulsion. Such assumptions may be inaccurate based on the information available to the Company or as a result of the failure to realize the expected benefits of the acquisition, higher than expected integration costs, unknown liabilities and global economic and business conditions that may adversely affect the combined company following the completion of the acquisition. The combination of the businesses will require significant management attention, and the Company may incur significant additional integration costs because of integration difficulties and other challenges.. 7. As part of the acquisition of Veth Propulsion, the Company entered into a new credit agreement and significantly increased its indebtedness. The ability to service the requirements of the new debt depends on the ability to generate cash and/or refinance its indebtedness as it becomes due, and depends on many factors, some of which are beyond the Company’s control.  The Company’s ability to make payments on its indebtedness, including those under the new credit agreement, and to fund planned capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other corporate expenses depends on the Company’s future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors. Many of these factors are beyond its control. The Company cannot assure that its business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or operating improvements will be realized or that future borrowings will be available to it in an amount sufficient to enable it to repay its indebtedness or to fund its other operating requirements. Significant delays in its planned capital expenditures may materially and adversely affect the Company’s future revenue prospects.. As a result of the acquisition of Veth Propulsion, the Company will likely record a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets, and it may never fully realize the full value of these assets. The accounting for the acquisition, including the purchase price allocation is in progress. The Company will likely record a significant amount of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, including customer relationships, trademarks and developed technologies.. The Company tests goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for possible impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. Amortizable intangible assets are periodically reviewed for possible impairment whenever there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Impairment may result from, among other things, (i) a decrease in its expected net earnings; (ii) adverse equity market conditions; (iii) a decline in current market multiples; (iv) a decline in its common stock price; (v) a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climates; (vi) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; (vii) heightened competition; (viii) strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions; or (ix) a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of. In the event that it determines that events or circumstances exist that indicate that the carrying value of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, it might have to recognize a non-cash impairment of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations.. The Company recorded significant non-cash goodwill impairment charges in fiscal 2017 and 2016. The Company carries a remaining balance of goodwill in the amount of $2.7 million as of June 30, 2018 after impairment charges recognized in fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016. Any further deterioration in the industry or business may trigger future impairment charges, which may have a material adverse effect to the Company’s financial results.. The Company may experience negative or unforeseen tax consequences. The Company reviews the probability of the realization of its net deferred tax assets each period based on forecasts of taxable income in both the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. This review uses historical results, projected future operating results based upon approved business plans, eligible carryforward periods, tax planning opportunities and other relevant considerations. Adverse changes in the profitability and financial outlook in the U.S. or foreign jurisdictions may require the creation of a valuation allowance to reduce the Company’s net deferred tax assets. Such changes could result in material non-cash expenses in the period in which the changes are made and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.. Taxing authority challenges and changes to tax laws may lead to tax payments exceeding current reserves.  The Company is subject to ongoing tax examinations in various jurisdictions. As a result, the Company may record incremental tax expense based on expected outcomes of such matters. In addition, the Company may adjust previously reported tax reserves based on expected results of these examinations. Such adjustments could result in an increase or decrease to the Company’s effective tax rate.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") was signed into law in December 2017. The new law made numerous changes to U.S. federal corporate tax law that the Company expects will impact its effective tax rate in future periods. The changes included in the Tax Act are broad and complex. The final impact of the Tax Act may differ from the Company’s current estimates, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the Tax Act, any legislative action to address questions that arise because of the Tax Act, any changes in accounting standards for U.S. federal income taxes or related interpretations in response to the Tax Act or any updates or changes to estimates the Company has utilized to calculate the impact. Future changes in tax law in the United States or the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates and income tax holidays could have a material impact on the Company’s effective tax rate, foreign rate differential, future income tax expense and cash flows.. 8. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise the Company’s information and expose it to liability, which would cause its business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of its business, the Company collects and stores sensitive data, including its proprietary business information and that of its customers, suppliers and business partners, as well as personally identifiable information of its customers and employees, in its internal and external data centers, cloud services and on its networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to the Company’s operations and business strategy. Despite the Company’s security measures, its information technology and infrastructure, and that of its partners, may be vulnerable to malicious attacks or breaches due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions, including as a result of rollouts of new systems. Any such breach or operational failure would compromise the Company’s networks and/or that of its partners and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings and/or regulatory fines or penalties, including, among others, under the European Union’s newly enacted General Data Privacy Regulation, disrupt the Company’s operations, damage its reputation and/or cause a loss of confidence in the Company’s products and services, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations."
