[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. The following are some important factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those referred to or implied in any forward-looking statement. These are in addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Company's other filings with the SEC.. Our dependence on loans secured by real estate subjects us to risks relating to fluctuations in the real estate market and related interest rates, and to legislation that could result in significant additional costs and capital requirements, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Approximately 92.6% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2017 was comprised of loans collateralized by real estate, with 98.4% of the real estate located in New Jersey. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. A weakening of the real estate market in our primary market areas could have an adverse effect on the demand for new loans, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, the value of real estate and other collateral securing the loans and the value of real estate owned by us. As real estate values decline, it is also more likely that we would be required to make provisions for additional loan losses, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $118.1 million, or 13.9%, of our total loans in real estate construction loans. Of this amount, $7.2 million were land loans and $82.3 million were made to finance residential construction. Substantially all of these loans are located in Monmouth, Middlesex, Union and Ocean Counties, New Jersey. Further, $28.6 million of real estate construction loans were made to finance commercial construction. Construction loans are subject to risks during the construction phase that are not present in standard residential real estate and commercial real estate loans. These risks include:. • the viability of the contractor;. • the value of the project being subject to successful completion;. • the contractor's ability to complete the project, to meet deadlines and time schedules and to stay within cost estimates; and. • concentrations of such loans with a single contractor and its affiliates.. Real estate construction loans also present risks of default in the event of declines in property values or volatility in the real estate market during the construction phase. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to completion, we may not be able to recover the entire unpaid portion of the loan, may be required to fund additional amounts to complete a project and may have to hold the property for an indeterminate amount of time. If any of these risks were to occur, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 14. The federal banking agencies have issued guidance regarding high concentrations of commercial real estate loans within bank loan portfolios. The guidance requires financial institutions that exceed certain levels of commercial real estate lending compared with their total capital to maintain heightened risk management practices that address the following key elements: including board and management oversight and strategic planning, portfolio management, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing, and maintenance of increased capital levels as needed to support the level of commercial real estate lending. If there is any deterioration in our commercial real estate or real estate construction portfolios or if our regulators conclude that we have not implemented appropriate risk management practices, it could adversely affect our business and result in a requirement of increased capital levels, and such capital may not be available at that time.. Our commercial real estate and commercial loans expose us to increased credit risks, and these risks will increase if we succeed in increasing these types of loans.. We focus our lending efforts on commercial-related loans and intend to grow commercial real estate and commercial loans further as a percentage of our portfolio. As of December 31, 2017, commercial real estate loans and commercial and industrial loans totaled $639.1 million. In general, commercial real estate loans and commercial and industrial loans yield higher returns and often generate a deposit relationship, but also pose greater credit risks than do owner-occupied residential real estate loans. As our various commercial-related loan portfolios increase, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans will also increase.. We make both secured and some unsecured commercial and industrial loans. Unsecured loans generally involve a higher degree of risk of loss than do secured loans because, without collateral, repayment is wholly dependent upon the success of the borrowers' businesses or the guarantor(s). Secured commercial and industrial loans are generally collateralized by accounts receivable, inventory, equipment or other assets owned by the borrower and include a personal guaranty of the business owner. Compared to real estate, that type of collateral is more difficult to monitor, its value is harder to ascertain, it may depreciate more rapidly and it may not be as readily saleable if repossessed. Further, commercial and industrial loans generally will be serviced primarily from the operation of the business, which may not be successful, and commercial real estate loans generally will be serviced from income on the properties securing the loans.. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to absorb actual losses or if we are required to increase our allowance.. Despite our underwriting criteria, we may experience loan delinquencies and losses. In order to absorb losses associated with non-performing loans, we maintain an allowance for loan losses based on, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions, and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Determination of the allowance inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. At any time there are likely to be loans in our portfolio that will result in losses but that have not been identified as non-performing or potential problem credits. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify deteriorating credits before they become non-performing assets or that we will be able to limit losses on those loans that are identified.. At December 31, 2017, the Bank's allowance for loan losses was $10.7 million, which equaled 1.25% of the Bank's total loans.. We may be required to increase our allowance for loan losses for any of several reasons. State and federal regulators, in reviewing our loan portfolio as part of a regulatory examination, may request that we increase our allowance for loan losses. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in our allowance. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed our allowance for loan losses, we will need additional increases in our allowance for loan losses. Any increases in our allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in our net income and, possibly, our capital, and may materially affect our results of operations in the period in which the allowance is increased.. Changes in tax laws could have an adverse effect on the Company, the banking industry, the Bank's customers, the value of collateral securing loans and demand for loans.. Changes in tax laws contained in the recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") contain a number of provisions which could have an impact on the banking industry, borrowers and the market for single family residential and commercial real estate. Among the changes are: lower limits on the deductibility of mortgage interest on single family residential mortgages; a broad limitation on deductibility of business interest expense which will affect commercial borrowers; and limitations. 15. on the deductibility of property taxes and state and local income taxes. We cannot predict the ultimate impact of these changes. However, such changes may have an adverse effect on the market for and valuation of single family residential properties and commercial real estate, the economics of borrowing by businesses, and on the demand for residential and commercial mortgage and business loans in the future. If home ownership or business borrowing become less attractive, demand for our loans would decrease. The value of the properties securing loans in our portfolio may be adversely impacted as a result of the changing economics of home ownership and borrowing, which could require an increase in our provision for loan losses, which would reduce our profitability and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, certain borrowers could become less able to service their debts if these changes become effective. These changes could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to successfully integrate any banks or other businesses that we may acquire.. Our strategy has been to carefully evaluate each acquisition opportunity presented to us to determine whether it fits into our strategic growth plan and ensure that it does not involve excessive risk to the Company. Should we decide to pursue any acquisition opportunity, we may not be able to successfully integrate the assets, liabilities, customers, systems and management personnel we acquire into our operations, and we may not be able to realize related revenue synergies and cost savings within our expected time frames. In addition, we will incur substantial legal, investment banking, accounting and other expenses in pursuing any acquisitions. In respect to any completed acquisition, there will be potential goodwill impairment charges and fluctuations in the fair values of assets in the event projected financial results are not achieved within expected time frames.. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the U.S. and global credit markets may adversely impact our operations and results.. Financial institution regulatory agencies have been very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance.. The effects of another Superstorm Sandy or similar natural disaster may negatively impact collateral values or loan originations in the areas in which we do business.. On October 29, 2012, Superstorm Sandy made landfall in New Jersey, causing widespread property damage throughout the northeastern United States, including our primary market area in New Jersey. A similar or worse natural disaster than Superstorm Sandy could have a material adverse effect. Natural disasters can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties, reduce or destroy the value of the collateral for our loans and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The occurrence of a natural disaster could result in one or more of the following: (i) an increase in loan delinquencies; (ii) an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; (iii) a decrease in the demand for our products and services; or (iv) a decrease in the value of the collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, the value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage.. The Company's profitability depends significantly on local economic conditions.. The Company's success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the primary markets in New Jersey in which it operates and where its loans are concentrated. Unlike nationwide banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in Monmouth, Middlesex, Union and Ocean Counties, New Jersey. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the Company's commercial and industrial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. In addition, if the population or income growth in the Company's market areas is slower than projected, income levels, deposits and housing starts could be adversely affected and could result in a reduction of the Company's expansion, growth and profitability. If the Company's market areas experience a downturn or a recession for a prolonged period of time, the Company could experience significant increases in nonperforming loans, which could lead to operating losses, impaired liquidity and eroding capital. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreaks of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment, monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and could negatively affect the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 16. The small to medium-sized businesses that the Company lends to may have fewer resources to weather a downturn in the economy, which may impair a borrower's ability to repay a loan to the Company that could materially harm the Company's operating results.. The Company targets its business development and marketing strategy primarily to serve the banking and financial services needs of small to medium-sized businesses. These small to medium-sized businesses frequently have smaller market share than their competition, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and may experience significant volatility in operating results. Any one or more of these factors may impair the borrower's ability to repay a loan. In addition, the success of a small to medium-sized business often depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the business and its ability to repay a loan. Economic downturns and other events that negatively impact the Company's market areas could cause the Company to incur substantial credit losses that could negatively affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. Changes in interest rates could reduce our income, cash flows and asset values.. Our income and cash flows and the value of our assets depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates we earn on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates we pay on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence not only the interest we receive on our loans and investment securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings but will also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits and the value of our investment portfolio. If the rate of interest we pay on our deposits and other borrowings increases more than the rate of interest we earn on our loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could be adversely affected. Our earnings also could be adversely affected if the rates on our loans and other investments fall more quickly than those on our deposits and other borrowings.. Competition may decrease our growth or profits.. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors, including commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, credit unions, consumer finance companies, factoring companies, leasing companies, insurance companies and money market mutual funds. There is very strong competition among financial services providers in our principal service area. Our competitors may have greater resources, higher lending limits or larger branch systems than we do. Accordingly, they may be able to offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can.. In addition, some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on federally insured financial institutions such as the Bank. As a result, those non-bank competitors may be able to access funding and provide various services more easily or at less cost than we can, adversely affecting our ability to compete effectively.. We rely on our management and other key personnel, and the loss of any of them may adversely affect our operations.. We are and will continue to be dependent upon the services of our executive management team. The Company's performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. There is intense competition in the financial services industry for qualified employees. In addition, the Company faces increasing competition with businesses outside the financial services industry for the most highly skilled individuals. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel or commercial loan officers could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. The Company's business operations could be adversely affected if it were unable to attract new employees and retain and motivate its existing employees.. We may be adversely affected by government regulation.. The banking industry is heavily regulated. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect the federal deposit insurance funds and depositors, not shareholders. Changes in the laws, regulations, and regulatory practices affecting the banking industry may increase our costs of doing business or otherwise adversely affect us and create competitive advantages for others. Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change, and we cannot predict the ultimate effect of these changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition.. 17. The anti-money laundering or AML, and bank secrecy, or BSA, laws have imposed far-reaching and substantial requirements on financial institutions. The enforcement policy with respect to AML/BSA compliance has been vigorously applied throughout the industry, with regulatory action taking various forms. We believe that our policies and procedures with respect to combating money laundering are effective and that our AML/BSA policies and procedures are reasonably designed to comply with current applicable standards. We cannot provide assurance that in the future we will not face a regulatory action, adversely affecting our ability to acquire banks or open new branches.. Additionally, the federal government has passed a variety of other reforms related to banking and the financial industry. See \"Item 1. Business  -  Supervision and Regulation.\". Future banking laws and regulations could limit our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with any new requirements could also materially and adversely affect us.. The short-term and long-term impact of our regulatory capital requirements is uncertain and could adversely affect us.. The Company and the Bank are subject to capital requirements under regulations adopted by the federal banking regulators. The application of these capital requirements could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, over time require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with these capital requirements could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Any additional changes in our regulation and oversight, in the form of new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects.. We depend upon the accuracy and completeness of information about customers.. In deciding whether to extend credit to customers, we may rely on information provided to us by our customers, including financial statements and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of customers as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent that we extend credit in reliance on financial statements or other information provided by customers that is false or misleading.. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer-relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur; or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability; any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We face the risk of cyber-attack to our computer systems.. Our computer systems, software and networks have been and will continue to be vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber-attacks and other events. These threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. If one or more of these events occurs, it could result in the disclosure of confidential client information, damage to our reputation with our clients and the market, additional costs to us (such as repairing systems or adding new personnel or protection technologies), regulatory penalties and financial losses, to both us and our clients and customers. Such events could also cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations (such as the lack of availability of our online banking system), as well as the operations of our clients, customers or other third parties.. 18. Although we maintain safeguards to protect against these risks, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer losses in the future that may be material in amount.. We rely on third parties to provide key components of our business infrastructure, and a failure of these parties to perform for any reason could disrupt our operations.. Third parties provide key components of our business infrastructure such as data processing, internet connections, network access, core application processing, statement production and account analysis. Our business depends on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. Replacing vendors or addressing other issues with our third-party service providers could entail significant delay and expense. If we are unable to efficiently replace ineffective service providers, or if we experience a significant, sustained or repeated, system failure or service denial, it could compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, and subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. Environmental liability associated with lending activities could result in losses.. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing our loans. If hazardous substances were discovered on any of these properties, we could be liable to governmental entities or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. In addition, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site even if we neither own nor operate the disposal site. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially limit use of properties we acquire through foreclosure, reduce their value or limit our ability to sell them in the event of a default on the loans they secure. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability.. Failure to implement new technologies in our operations may adversely affect our growth or profits.. The market for financial services, including banking services and consumer finance services is increasingly affected by advances in technology, including developments in telecommunications, data processing, computers, automation, Internet-based banking and telebanking. Our ability to compete successfully in our markets may depend on the extent to which we are able to exploit such technological changes. However, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to properly or timely anticipate or implement such technologies or properly train our staff to use such technologies. Any failure to adapt to new technologies could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results.. We are subject to liquidity risk.. Liquidity risk is the potential that we will be unable to meet our obligations as they become due, capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise, or pay regular cash dividends because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding in a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances.. Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit commitments to borrowers, mortgage and other loan originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of borrowings, dividends to shareholders, operating expenses and capital expenditures. Liquidity is derived primarily from retail deposit growth and retention; principal and interest payments on loans; principal and interest payments on and the sale, maturity and prepayment of investment securities; net cash provided from operations and access to other funding sources.. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole.. 19. Future offerings of debt or other securities may adversely affect the market price of our stock.. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources or, if our or the Bank's capital ratios fall below the required minimums, the Company could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt or equity securities, including common or preferred stock and senior or subordinated debentures. The Company currently has a shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission to allow us to access the capital markets more quickly should the need or desire arise. Upon liquidation, holders of any debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution.. The Company may lose lower-cost funding sources.. Checking, savings, and money market deposit account balances and other forms of customer deposits can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, the Company could lose a relatively low-cost source of funds, increasing its funding costs and reducing the Company's net interest income and net income.. Changes in consumers' use of banks and changes in consumers' spending and saving habits could adversely affect the Company's financial results.. Technology and other changes now allow many consumers to complete financial transactions without using banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without going through a bank. This disintermediation could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits. In addition, changes in consumer spending and saving habits could adversely affect our operations, and we may be unable to timely develop competitive new products and services in response to these changes that are accepted by new and existing customers.. The Company is subject to operational risk.. The Company faces the risk that the design of its controls and procedures, including those to mitigate the risk of fraud by employees or outsiders, may prove to be inadequate or are circumvented, thereby causing delays in detection of errors or inaccuracies in data and information. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company's internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company's controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. The Company may also be subject to disruptions of its systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (including, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to losses in service to customers and to financial loss or liability. The Company is further exposed to the risk that its external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as is the Company) and to the risk that the Company's (or its vendors') business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate.. Negative publicity could damage our reputation and adversely impact our business and financial results.. Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital from negative publicity, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, acquisitions, and actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative publicity can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Although we take steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with customers and other constituencies, as a financial services company with a high profile in our market area, we are inherently exposed to this risk.. Our SBA lending program is dependent upon the federal government and we face specific risks associated with originating SBA loans.. Our SBA lending program is dependent upon the federal government. As an SBA Preferred Lender, we enable our clients to obtain SBA loans without being subject to the potentially lengthy SBA approval process necessary for lenders that are. 20. not SBA Preferred Lenders. The SBA periodically reviews the lending operations of participating lenders to assess, among other things, whether the lender exhibits prudent risk management. When weaknesses are identified, the SBA may request corrective actions or impose enforcement actions, including revocation of the lender's Preferred Lender status. If we lose our status as a Preferred Lender, we may lose some or all of our customers to lenders who are SBA Preferred Lenders. Also, any changes to the SBA program, including changes to the level of guarantee provided by the federal government on SBA loans, could adversely affect our business and earnings.. We generally sell the guaranteed portion of our SBA 7(a) program loans in the secondary market. These sales have resulted in premium income for us at the time of sale and created a stream of future servicing income. We may not be able to continue originating these loans or selling them in the secondary market. Furthermore, even if we are able to continue originating and selling SBA 7(a) program loans in the secondary market, we might not continue to realize premiums upon the sale of the guaranteed portion of these loans. When we sell the guaranteed portion of our SBA 7(a) program loans, we incur credit risk on the non-guaranteed portion of the loans, and if a customer defaults on the non-guaranteed portion of a loan, we share any loss and recovery related to the loan pro-rata with the SBA. If the SBA establishes that a loss on an SBA guaranteed loan is attributable to significant technical deficiencies in the manner in which the loan was originated, funded or serviced by us, the SBA may seek recovery of the principal loss related to the deficiency from us, which could adversely affect our business and earnings.. The laws, regulations and standard operating procedures that are applicable to SBA loan products may change in the future. We cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, changes in the laws, regulations and procedures applicable to SBA loans could adversely affect our business and earnings.. New lines of business or new products and services may subject the Bank to additional risks.. From time to time, the Bank may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, the Bank may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business and/or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the Bank's system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business and new products or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The FASB has recently issued an accounting standard update that will result in a significant change in how we recognize credit losses and may have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.. In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") issued an accounting standard update, \"Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326), Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments,\" which replaces the current \"incurred loss\" model for recognizing credit losses with an \"expected loss\" model referred to as the Current Expected Credit Loss (\"CECL\") model. Under the CECL model, banks will be required to present certain financial assets carried at amortized cost, such as loans held for investment and held-to-maturity debt securities, at the net amount expected to be collected. The measurement of expected credit losses is to be based on information about past events, including historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the reported amount. This measurement will take place at the time the financial asset is first added to the balance sheet and periodically thereafter. This differs significantly from the \"incurred loss\" model required under current generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\"), which delays recognition until it is probable a loss has been incurred. Accordingly, we expect that the adoption of the CECL model will materially affect how we determine our allowance for loan losses, and could require us to significantly increase our allowance. Moreover, the CECL model may create more volatility in the level of the allowance for loan losses. If we are required to materially increase the level of its allowance for loan losses for any reason, such increase could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The new CECL standard will become effective for the Company for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 and for interim periods within those fiscal years. We are evaluating the impact the CECL model will have on our accounting, but we expect to recognize a one-time cumulative-effect adjustment to the allowance for loan losses as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the new standard is effective, consistent with regulatory expectations set forth in interagency guidance issued at the end of 2016. We cannot yet determine the magnitude of any such one-time cumulative adjustment or of the overall impact of the new standard on its financial condition or results of operations.. 21. The increasing use of social media platforms presents new risks and challenges and the inability or failure to recognize, respond to, and effectively manage the accelerated impact of social media could materially adversely impact the Bank's business.. There has been a marked increase in the use of social media platforms, including weblogs (blogs), social media websites, and other forms of Internet-based communications which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. Social media practices in the banking industry are evolving, which creates uncertainty and risk of noncompliance with regulations applicable to the Bank's business. Consumers value readily available information concerning businesses and their goods and services and often act on such information without further investigation and without regard to its accuracy. Many social media platforms immediately publish the content their subscribers and participants post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content posted. Information posted on such platforms at any time may be adverse to the Bank's interests and/or may be inaccurate. The dissemination of information online could harm the Bank's business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations, regardless of the information's accuracy. The harm may be immediate without affording the Bank an opportunity for redress or correction.. Other risks associated with the use of social media include improper disclosure of proprietary information, negative comments about the Bank's business, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud, out-of-date information, and improper use by employees, directors and customers. The inappropriate use of social media by the Bank's customers, directors or employees could result in negative consequences such as remediation costs including training for employees, additional regulatory scrutiny and possible regulatory penalties, litigation, or negative publicity that could damage the Bank's reputation adversely affecting customer or investor confidence."
