[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Our business is subject to a number of risks which are discussed below. Other risks are presented elsewhere in this report and in our other filings with the SEC. You should consider carefully the following risks in addition to the other information contained in this report and our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, and any amendments thereto, before deciding to buy, sell or hold our common stock. If any of the following known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on us, our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or liquidity could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock will likely decline and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related To Our Business. Purchasers of aftermarket auto parts may not choose to shop online, which would prevent us from acquiring new customers who are necessary to the growth of our business.. The online market for aftermarket auto parts is less developed than the online market for many other business and consumer products, and currently represents only a small part of the overall aftermarket auto parts market. Our success will depend in part on our ability to attract new customers and to convert customers who have historically purchased auto parts through traditional retail and wholesale operations. Specific factors that could discourage or prevent prospective customers from purchasing from us include:. • concerns about buying auto parts without face-to-face interaction with sales personnel;. • the inability to physically handle, examine and compare products;. • delivery time associated with Internet orders;. • concerns about the security of online transactions and the privacy of personal information;. • delayed shipments or shipments of incorrect or damaged products;. • increased shipping costs; and. • the inconvenience associated with returning or exchanging items purchased online.. If the online market for auto parts does not gain widespread acceptance, our sales may decline and our business and financial results may suffer.. We depend on search engines and other online sources to attract visitors to our websites and marketplace channels, and if we are unable to attract these visitors and convert them into customers in a cost-effective manner, our business and results of operations will be harmed.. Our success depends on our ability to attract customers in a cost-effective manner. Our investments in marketing may not effectively reach potential consumers or those consumers may not decide to buy from us or the volume of consumers that purchase from us may not yield the intended return on investment. With respect to our marketing channels, we rely on relationships with providers of online services, search engines, shopping comparison sites and e-commerce businesses to provide content, advertising banners and other links that direct customers to our websites. We rely on these relationships as significant sources of traffic to our websites. In particular, we rely on Google as an important marketing channel, and if Google changes its algorithms or if competition increases for advertisements on Google or on our marketplace channels, we may be unable to cost-effectively attract customers to our products.. Our agreements with our marketing providers generally have terms of one year or less. If we are unable to develop or maintain these relationships on acceptable terms, our ability to attract new customers would be harmed. In addition, many of the parties with whom we have online-advertising arrangements could provide advertising services to other companies, including retailers with whom we compete. A s competition for online advertising has increased, the cost for these services has also increased. A significant increase in the cost of the marketing vehicles upon which we rely could adversely impact our ability to attract customers in a cost-effective manner and harm our business and results of operations. Further, we use promotions as a way to drive sales, these promotional activities may not drive sales and may adversely affect our gross margins.. Similarly, if any free search engine, shopping comparison site, or marketplace site on which we rely begins charging fees for listing or placement, or if one or more of the search engines, shopping comparison sites, marketplace sites and other online sources on which we rely for purchased listings, increases their fees, or modifies or terminates its relationship with us, our expenses could rise, we could lose customers and traffic to our websites could decrease.. 5. Shifting online consumer behavior of purchasers of aftermarket auto parts could adversely impact our financial results and the growth of our business.. Shifting consumer behavior indicates that our customers are becoming more inclined to shop for aftermarket auto parts through their mobile devices. Mobile customers exhibit different behaviors than our more traditional desktop based e-commerce customers. User sophistication and technological advances have increased consumer expectations around the user experience on mobile devices, including speed of response, functionality, product availability, security, and ease of use. If we are unable to continue to adapt our mobile device shopping experience from desktop based online shopping in ways that improve our customer's mobile experience and increase the engagement of our mobile customers our sales may decline and our business and financial results may suffer.. In addition, shifting consumer behavior indicates that customers may be more inclined to shop for aftermarket auto parts through marketplace websites such as Amazon and eBay as opposed to purchasing parts through e-commerce channels. For example, during fiscl 2017, the online marketplaces sales grew from 26.5% of total sales to 35.0% of total sales over the prior year. Any mix shift in sales to marketplace channels could result in lower gross margins, and as a result, our business and financial results may suffer.. During fiscal 2017, we recorded net income, but we have a history of net losses and there can be no assurance that net income will continue in fiscal year 2018.. During fiscal 2017, we achieved net income of $24,015, compared to a net loss of $603 for fiscal 2016, in part due to a $21,540 income tax benefit due to the change in valuation allowance, in addition to the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.  While we achieved net income during fiscal 2017, if our historical net losses continue in fiscal year 2018 they could severely impact our liquidity, as we may not be able to provide positive cash flows from operations in order to meet our working capital requirements. We may need to borrow additional funds from our credit facility, which under certain circumstances may not be available, sell additional assets or seek additional equity or additional debt financing in the future. In such case, there can be no assurance that we would be able to raise such additional financing or engage in such asset sales on acceptable terms, or at all. If our historical net losses were to return, and if we are not able to raise adequate additional financing or proceeds from asset sales to continue to fund our ongoing operations, we will need to defer, reduce or eliminate significant planned expenditures, restructure or significantly curtail our operations, file for bankruptcy or cease operations.. Our operations are restricted by our credit agreement, and our ability to borrow funds under our credit facility is subject to a borrowing base.. We maintain an asset-based revolving credit facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (the \"Credit Agreement\") that provides for, among other things, a revolving commitment in an aggregate principal amount of up to $30 million subject to a borrowing base derived from certain of our receivables, inventory and property and equipment. Our Credit Agreement includes a number of restrictive covenants. These covenants could impair our financing and operational flexibility and make it difficult for us to react to market conditions and satisfy our ongoing capital needs and unanticipated cash requirements. Specifically, such covenants restrict our ability and, if applicable, the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things:. • incur additional debt;. • make certain investments and acquisitions;. • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates;. • use assets as security in other transactions;. • pay dividends on our capital stock or repurchase our equity interests, excluding payments of preferred stock dividends which are specifically permitted under our credit facility;. • sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies;. • guarantee the debts of others;. • enter into new lines of business;. • pay or amend our subordinated debt; and. • form any joint ventures or subsidiary investments.. In addition, our credit facility is subject to a borrowing base derived from certain of our receivables, inventory, property and equipment. In the event that components of the borrowing base are adversely affected for any reason, including adverse market conditions or downturns in general economic conditions, we could be restricted in the amount of funds we can borrow. 6. under the credit facility. Furthermore, in the event that components of the borrowing base decrease to a level below the amount of loans then-outstanding under the credit facility, we could be required to immediately repay loans to the extent of such shortfall. If any of these events were to occur, it could severely impact our liquidity and capital resources, limit our ability to operate our business and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Under certain circumstances, our credit facility may also require us to satisfy a financial covenant, which could limit our ability to react to market conditions or satisfy extraordinary capital needs and could otherwise impact our liquidity and capital resources, restrict our financing and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our ability to comply with the covenants and other terms of our debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance. If we fail to comply with such covenants and terms, we would be required to obtain waivers from our lenders to maintain compliance with our debt obligations. In the future, if we are unable to obtain any necessary waivers and our debt is accelerated, a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future operating performance would result.. While we did not have any outstanding indebtedness under our Credit Agreement as of the end of fiscal 2017, we may have outstanding indebtedness in the future. Any outstanding indebtedness would have important consequences, including the following:. • we would have to dedicate a portion of our cash flow to making payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes;. • certain levels of indebtedness may make us less attractive to potential acquirers or acquisition targets;. • certain levels of indebtedness may limit our flexibility to adjust to changing business and market conditions, and make us more vulnerable to downturns in general economic conditions as compared to competitors that may be less leveraged; and. • as described in more detail above, the documents providing for our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants that may limit our financing and operational flexibility.. Furthermore, our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations depends, among other things, upon fluctuations in interest rates, our future operating performance and ability to refinance indebtedness when and if necessary. These factors depend partly on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash from operations to meet our debt service obligations as well as fund necessary capital expenditures and general operating expenses. In addition, if we need to refinance our debt, or obtain additional debt financing or sell assets or equity to satisfy our debt service obligations, we may not be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If this were to occur, we may need to defer, reduce or eliminate significant planned expenditures, restructure or significantly curtail our operations, file for bankruptcy or cease operations.. We face exposure to product liability lawsuits.. The automotive industry in general has been subject to a large number of product liability claims due to the nature of personal injuries that result from car accidents or malfunctions. As a distributor of auto parts, including parts obtained overseas, we could be held liable for the injury or damage caused if the products we sell are defective or malfunction regardless of whether the product manufacturer is the party at fault.  While we carry insurance against product liability claims, if the damages in any given action were high or we were subject to multiple lawsuits, the damages and costs could exceed the limits of our insurance coverage or prevent us from obtaining coverage in the future. If we were required to pay substantial damages as a result of these lawsuits, it may seriously harm our business and financial condition. Even defending against unsuccessful claims could cause us to incur significant expenses and result in a diversion of management's attention. In addition, even if the money damages themselves did not cause substantial harm to our business, the damage to our reputation and the brands offered on our websites could adversely affect our future reputation and our brand, and could result in a decline in our net sales and profitability.. If our assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.. We review our long-lived assets for impairment annually, or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered are changes in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our assets may not be recoverable include a decrease in future cash flows. For example, during fiscal 2016, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $1,130 relating to the impairment of certain AutoMD software. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our assets is determined, resulting in an impact on our results of operations.. 7. We are highly dependent upon key suppliers.. Our top ten suppliers represented approximately 48% of our total product purchases during fiscal 2017. Our ability to acquire products from our suppliers in amounts and on terms acceptable to us is dependent upon a number of factors that could affect our suppliers and which are beyond our control. For example, financial or operational difficulties that some of our suppliers may face could result in an increase in the cost of the products we purchase from them.  If we do not maintain our relationships with our existing suppliers or develop relationships with new suppliers on acceptable commercial terms, we may not be able to continue to offer a broad selection of merchandise at competitive prices and, as a result, we could lose customers and our sales could decline.. For a number of the products that we sell, we outsource the distribution and fulfillment operation and are dependent on certain drop-ship suppliers to manage inventory, process orders and distribute those products to our customers in a timely manner. For fiscal 2017, our product purchases from three drop-ship suppliers represented approximately 8% of our total product purchases.  Because we outsource to suppliers a number of these traditional retail functions relating to those products, we have limited control over how and when orders are fulfilled. We also have limited control over the products that our suppliers purchase or keep in stock. Our suppliers may not accurately forecast the products that will be in high demand or they may allocate popular products to other resellers, resulting in the unavailability of certain products for delivery to our customers. Any inability to offer a broad array of products at competitive prices and any failure to deliver those products to our customers in a timely and accurate manner may damage our reputation and brand and could cause us to lose customers and our sales could decline.. In addition, the increasing consolidation among auto parts suppliers may disrupt or end our relationship with some suppliers, result in product shortages and/or lead to less competition and, consequently, higher prices. Furthermore, as part of our routine business, suppliers extend credit to us in connection with our purchase of their products. In the future, our suppliers may limit the amount of credit they are willing to extend to us in connection with our purchase of their products. If this were to occur, it could impair our ability to acquire the types and quantities of products that we desire from the applicable suppliers on acceptable terms, severely impact our liquidity and capital resources, limit our ability to operate our business and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are dependent upon relationships with suppliers in Taiwan and China for the majority of our products.. We acquire a majority of our products from manufacturers and distributors located in Taiwan and China. We do not have any long-term contracts or exclusive agreements with our foreign suppliers that would ensure our ability to acquire the types and quantities of products we desire at acceptable prices and in a timely manner or that would allow us to rely on customary indemnification protection with respect to any third party claims similar to some of our U.S. suppliers.. In addition, because many of our suppliers are outside of the United States, additional factors could interrupt our relationships or affect our ability to acquire the necessary products on acceptable terms, including:. • political, social and economic instability and the risk of war or other international incidents in Asia or abroad;. • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that may increase our cost of products;. • tariffs and protectionist laws and business practices that favor local businesses;. • difficulties in complying with import and export laws, regulatory requirements and restrictions;. • natural disasters and public health emergencies;. • import shipping delays resulting from foreign or domestic labor shortages, slow downs, or stoppage; and. • the failure of local laws to provide a sufficient degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property.. From time to time, we may also have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce our legal rights with foreign suppliers. However, it may be more difficult to evaluate the level of legal protection we enjoy in Taiwan and China and the corresponding outcome of any administrative or court proceedings than in comparison to our suppliers in the United States.. We depend on third-party delivery services to deliver our products to our customers on a timely and consistent basis, and any deterioration in our relationship with any one of these third parties or increases in the fees that they charge could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business and financial condition.. We rely on third parties for the shipment of our products and we cannot be sure that these relationships will continue on terms favorable to us, or at all. Shipping costs have increased from time to time, and may continue to increase, and we may not be able to pass these costs directly to our customers. For example, shipping costs have recently increased on larger items such as bumpers and hoods. Any increased shipping costs could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of. 8. operations by increasing our costs of doing business and reducing gross margins which could negatively affect our operating results.  In addition, we utilize a variety of shipping methods for both inbound and outbound logistics.  For inbound logistics, we rely on trucking and ocean carriers and any increases in fees that they charge could adversely affect our business and financial condition.  For outbound logistics, we rely on ''Less-than-Truckload'' (''LTL'') and parcel freight based upon the product and quantities being shipped and customer delivery requirements. We also ship a number of oversized auto parts which may trigger additional shipping costs by third party delivery services. Any increases in fees or any increased use of LTL would increase our shipping costs which could negatively affect our operating results.. In addition, if our relationships with these third parties are terminated or impaired, or if these third parties are unable to deliver products for us, whether due to labor shortage, slow down or stoppage, deteriorating financial or business condition, responses to terrorist attacks or for any other reason, we would be required to use alternative carriers for the shipment of products to our customers. Changing carriers could have a negative effect on our business and operating results due to reduced visibility of order status and package tracking and delays in order processing and product delivery, and we may be unable to engage alternative carriers on a timely basis, upon terms favorable to us, or at all.. If commodity prices such as fuel, plastic and steel increase, our margins may reduce.. Our third party delivery services have increased fuel surcharges from time to time, and such increases negatively impact our margins, as we are generally unable to pass all of these costs directly to consumers. Increasing prices in the component materials for the parts we sell may impact the availability, the quality and the price of our products, as suppliers search for alternatives to existing materials and increase the prices they charge. We cannot ensure that we can recover all the increased costs through price increases, and our suppliers may not continue to provide the consistent quality of product as they may substitute lower cost materials to maintain pricing levels, all of which may have a negative impact on our business and results of operations.. If we are unable to manage the challenges associated with our international operations, the growth of our business could be limited and our business could suffer.. We maintain international business operations in the Philippines. This international operation includes development and maintenance of our websites, our main call center, and sales and back office support services. We are subject to a number of risks and challenges that specifically relate to our international operations. Our international operations may not be successful if we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges, which could limit the growth of our business and may have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. These risks and challenges include:. • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations, including any impairment to our relationship with employees caused by a reduction in force;. • restrictions imposed by local labor practices and laws on our business and operations;. • exposure to different business practices and legal standards;. • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;. • the imposition of government controls and restrictions;. • political, social and economic instability and the risk of war, terrorist activities or other international incidents;. • the failure of telecommunications and connectivity infrastructure;. • natural disasters and public health emergencies;. • potentially adverse tax consequences; and. • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and relative weakness in the U.S. dollar.. If our fulfillment operations are interrupted for any significant period of time or are not sufficient to accommodate increased demand, our sales could decline and our reputation could be harmed.. Our success depends on our ability to successfully receive and fulfill orders and to promptly deliver our products to our customers. The majority of orders for our auto collision parts products are filled from our inventory in our distribution centers, where all our inventory management, packaging, labeling and product return processes are performed. Increased demand and other considerations may require us to expand our distribution centers or transfer our fulfillment operations to larger or other facilities in the future. If we do not successfully expand our fulfillment capabilities in response to increases in demand, our sales could decline.. 9. In addition, our distribution centers are susceptible to damage or interruption from human error, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, break-ins, earthquakes and similar events. We do not currently maintain back-up power systems at our fulfillment centers. We do not presently have a formal disaster recovery plan and our business interruption insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur in the event operations at our fulfillment center are interrupted. In addition, alternative arrangements may not be available, or if they are available, may increase the cost of fulfillment. Any interruptions in our fulfillment operations for any significant period of time, including interruptions resulting from the expansion of our existing facilities or the transfer of operations to a new facility, could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations.. We rely on bandwidth and data center providers and other third parties to provide products to our customers, and any failure or interruption in the services provided by these third parties could disrupt our business and cause us to lose customers.. We rely on third-party vendors, including data center and bandwidth providers. Any disruption in the network access or co-location services, which are the services that house and provide Internet access to our servers, provided by these third-party providers or any failure of these third-party providers to handle current or higher volumes of use could significantly harm our business. Any financial or other difficulties our providers face may have negative effects on our business, the nature and extent of which we cannot predict. We exercise little control over these third-party vendors, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the services they provide. We also license technology and related databases from third parties to facilitate elements of our e-commerce platform. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience interruptions and delays in service and availability for these elements. Any errors, failures, interruptions or delays experienced in connection with these third-party technologies could negatively impact our relationship with our customers and adversely affect our business. Our systems also heavily depend on the availability of electricity, which also comes from third-party providers. If we were to experience a major power outage, we would have to rely on back-up generators. These back-up generators may not operate properly through a major power outage, and their fuel supply could also be inadequate during a major power outage. Information systems such as ours may be disrupted by even brief power outages, or by the fluctuations in power resulting from switches to and from backup generators. This could disrupt our business and cause us to lose customers.. Security threats to our IT infrastructure could expose us to liability, and damage our reputation and business. It is essential to our business strategy that our technology and network infrastructure remain secure and is perceived by our customers to be secure. Despite security measures, however, any network infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks by hackers and other security threats. As a leading online source for automotive aftermarket parts and repair information, we may face cyber-attacks that attempt to penetrate our network security, including our data centers, to sabotage or otherwise disable our network of websites and online marketplaces, misappropriate our or our customers' proprietary information, which may include personally identifiable information, or cause interruptions of our internal systems and services. If successful, any of these attacks could negatively affect our reputation, damage our network infrastructure and our ability to sell our products, harm our relationship with customers that are affected and expose us to financial liability.. In addition, any failure by us to comply with applicable privacy and information security laws and regulations could cause us to incur significant costs to protect any customers whose personal data was compromised and to restore customer confidence in us and to make changes to our information systems and administrative processes to address security issues and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.  In addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to stop shopping on our sites altogether. Such events could lead to lost sales and adversely affect our results of operations.  We also could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation.. Moreover, we are subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (\"PCI DSS\"), issued by the PCI Council. PCI DSS contains compliance guidelines and standards with regard to our security surrounding the physical and electronic storage, processing and transmission of individual cardholder data.  We cannot be certain that all of our information technology systems are able to prevent, contain or detect any cyber-attacks, cyber terrorism, or security breaches from known malware or malware that may be developed in the future. To the extent that any disruption results in the loss, damage or misappropriation of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card associations and others.  In addition, the cost of complying with stricter privacy and information security laws and standards could be significant to us. For example, we were recently required to transition from PCI Data Security Standard 2.0 to PCI Data Security Standard 3.2. We are in the process of conforming to the new standards which we expect to be completed this year. There is no guarantee that we will be able to conform to these new standards, and if we fail to meet these standards, we could become subject to fines and other penalties and experience a significant increase in payment card transaction costs. In addition, such failure could damage our reputation, inhibit sales, and adversely affect our business.. 10. We face intense competition and operate in an industry with limited barriers to entry, and some of our competitors may have greater resources than us and may be better positioned to capitalize on the growing e-commerce auto parts market.. The auto parts industry is competitive and highly fragmented, with products distributed through multi-tiered and overlapping channels. We compete with both online and offline retailers who offer original equipment manufacturer (\"OEM\") and aftermarket auto parts to either the DIY or do-it-for-me customer segments. Current or potential competitors include the following:. • national auto parts retailers such as Advance Auto Parts, AutoZone, Napa Auto Parts, CarQuest, O'Reilly Automotive and Pep Boys;. • large online marketplaces such as Amazon.com and eBay;. • other online retailers of automotive products and auto repair information websites;. • local independent retailers or niche auto parts online retailers;. • wholesale aftermarket auto parts distributors such as LKQ Corporation; and. • manufacturers, brand suppliers and other distributors selling online directly to customers.. Barriers to entry are low, and current and new competitors can launch websites at a relatively low cost. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing, technical, management and other resources than we do. For example, in the event that online marketplace companies such as Amazon or eBay, who have larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater resources than we do, focus more of their resources on competing in the aftermarket auto parts market, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, some of our competitors have used and may continue to use aggressive pricing tactics and devote substantially more financial resources to website and system development than we do. We expect that competition will further intensify in the future as Internet use and online commerce continue to grow worldwide. Increased competition may result in reduced sales, lower operating margins, reduced profitability, loss of market share and diminished brand recognition.. Additionally, we have experienced significant competitive pressure from certain of our suppliers who are now selling their products directly to customers. Since our suppliers have access to merchandise at very low costs, they can sell products at lower prices and maintain higher gross margins on their product sales than we can. Our financial results have been negatively impacted by direct sales from our suppliers to our current and potential customers, and our total number of orders and average order value may decline due to increased competition. Continued competition from our suppliers may also continue to negatively impact our business and results of operations, including through reduced sales, lower operating margins, reduced profitability, loss of market share and diminished brand recognition. We have implemented and will continue to implement several strategies to attempt to overcome the challenges created by our suppliers selling directly to our customers and potential customers, including optimizing our pricing, continuing to increase our mix of private label products and improving our websites, which may not be successful. If these strategies are not successful, our operating results and financial conditions could be materially and adversely affected.. If we fail to offer a broad selection of products at competitive prices or fail to maintain sufficient inventory to meet customer demands, our revenue could decline.. In order to expand our business, we must successfully offer, on a continuous basis, a broad selection of auto parts that meet the needs of our customers, including by being the first to market with new SKUs. Our auto parts are used by consumers for a variety of purposes, including repair, performance, improved aesthetics and functionality. In addition, to be successful, our product offerings must be broad and deep in scope, competitively priced, well-made, innovative and attractive to a wide range of consumers. We cannot predict with certainty that we will be successful in offering products that meet all of these requirements. Moreover, even if we offer a broad selection of products at competitive prices, we must maintain sufficient in-stock inventory to meet consumer demand. If our product offerings fail to satisfy our customers' requirements or respond to changes in customer preferences or we otherwise fail to maintain sufficient in-stock inventory, our revenue could decline.. Challenges by OEMs to the validity of the aftermarket auto parts industry and claims of intellectual property infringement could adversely affect our business and the viability of the aftermarket auto parts industry.. OEMs have attempted to use claims of intellectual property infringement against manufacturers and distributors of aftermarket products to restrict or eliminate the sale of aftermarket products that are the subject of the claims. The OEMs have brought such claims in federal court and with the United States International Trade Commission. We have received in the past, and we anticipate we may in the future receive, communications alleging that certain products we sell infringe the patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade names or other intellectual property rights of OEMs or other third parties. For instance, after. 11. approximately three and a half years of litigation and related costs and expenses, on April 16, 2009, we entered into a settlement agreement with Ford Motor Company and Ford Global Technologies, LLC that ended the two legal actions that were initiated by Ford against us related to claims of intellectual property infringement. The United States Patent and Trademark Office records indicate that OEMs are seeking and obtaining more design patents and trademarks then they have in the past. To the extent that the OEMs are successful with obtaining and enforcing their intellectual proprtry rights, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling certain aftermarket products which could have an adverse effect on our business. Infringement claims could also result in increased costs of doing business arising from increased legal expenses, adverse judgments or settlements or changes to our business practices required to settle such claims or satisfy any judgments. Litigation or regulatory enforcement could result in interpretations of the law that require us to change our business practices or otherwise increase our costs and harm our business. We may not maintain sufficient insurance coverage to cover the types of claims that could be asserted. If a successful claim were brought against us, it could expose us to significant liability.. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our reputation and brand could be impaired and we could lose customers.. We regard our trademarks, trade secrets and similar intellectual property such as our proprietary back-end order processing and fulfillment code and process as important to our success. We rely on trademark and copyright law, and trade secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements with employees, customers, partners and others to protect our proprietary rights. We cannot be certain that we have taken adequate steps to protect our proprietary rights, especially in countries where the laws may not protect our rights as fully as in the United States. In addition, our proprietary rights may be infringed or misappropriated, and we could be required to incur significant expenses to preserve them. In the past we have filed litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. The outcome of such litigation can be uncertain, and the cost of prosecuting such litigation may have an adverse impact on our earnings. We have common law trademarks, as well as pending federal trademark registrations for several marks and several registered marks. However, any registrations may not adequately cover our intellectual property or protect us against infringement by others. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services may be made available online. We also currently own or control a number of Internet domain names, including www.usautoparts.net, www.carparts.com, www.autopartswarehouse.com, www.jcwhitney.com and www.AutoMD.com, and have invested time and money in the purchase of domain names and other intellectual property, which may be impaired if we cannot protect such intellectual property. We may be unable to protect these domain names or acquire or maintain relevant domain names in the United States and in other countries. If we are not able to protect our trademarks, domain names or other intellectual property, we may experience difficulties in achieving and maintaining brand recognition and customer loyalty.. We rely on key personnel and may need additional personnel for the success and growth of our business.. Our business is largely dependent on the personal efforts and abilities of highly skilled executive, technical, managerial, merchandising, marketing, and call center personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. The loss of any key employee or our inability to attract or retain other qualified employees could harm our business and results of operations.. As a result of our international operations, we have foreign exchange risk.. Our purchases of auto parts from our Asian suppliers are denominated in U.S. dollars; however, a change in the foreign currency exchange rates could impact our product costs over time. Our financial reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and changes in exchange rates significantly affect our reported results and consolidated trends. For example, if the U.S. dollar weakens year-over-year relative to currencies in our international locations, our consolidated gross profit and operating expenses would be higher than if currencies had remained constant.   Similarly, our operating expenses in the Philippines are generally paid in Philippine Pesos, and as the exchange rate fluctuates, it could adversely impact our operating results.. If our product catalog database is stolen, misappropriated or damaged, or if a competitor is able to create a substantially similar catalog without infringing our rights, then we may lose an important competitive advantage.. We have invested significant resources and time to build and maintain our product catalog, which is maintained in the form of an electronic database, which maps SKUs to relevant product applications based on vehicle makes, models and years. We believe that our product catalog provides us with an important competitive advantage in both driving traffic to our websites and converting that traffic to revenue by enabling customers to quickly locate the products they require. We cannot assure you that we will be able to protect our product catalog from unauthorized copying or theft or that our product catalog will continue to operate adequately, without any technological challenges. In addition, it is possible that a competitor could develop a catalog or database that is similar to or more comprehensive than ours, without infringing our rights. In the event our product catalog is damaged or is stolen, copied or otherwise replicated to compete with us, whether lawfully or not, we may lose an important competitive advantage and our business could be harmed.. 12. Our e-commerce system is dependent on open-source software, which exposes us to uncertainty and potential liability.. We utilize open-source software such as Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP, Fedora and Perl throughout our web properties and supporting infrastructure although we have created proprietary programs. Open-source software is maintained and upgraded by a general community of software developers under various open-source licenses, including the GNU General Public License (\"GPL\"). These developers are under no obligation to maintain, enhance or provide any fixes or updates to this software in the future. Additionally, under the terms of the GPL and other open-source licenses, we may be forced to release to the public source-code internally developed by us pursuant to such licenses. Furthermore, if any of these developers contribute any code of others to any of the software that we use, we may be exposed to claims and liability for intellectual property infringement and may also be forced to implement changes to the code-base for this software or replace this software with internally developed or commercially licensed software.. System failures, including failures due to natural disasters or other catastrophic events, could prevent access to our websites, which could reduce our net sales and harm our reputation.. Our sales would decline and we could lose existing or potential customers if they are not able to access our websites or if our websites, transactions processing systems or network infrastructure do not perform to our customers' satisfaction. Any Internet network interruptions or problems with our websites could:. • prevent customers from accessing our websites;. • reduce our ability to fulfill orders or bill customers;. • reduce the number of products that we sell;. • cause customer dissatisfaction; or. • damage our brand and reputation.. We have experienced brief computer system interruptions in the past, and we believe they may continue to occur from time to time in the future. Our systems and operations are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from a number of sources, including a natural disaster or other catastrophic event such as an earthquake, typhoon, volcanic eruption, fire, flood, terrorist attack, computer viruses, power loss, telecommunications failure, physical and electronic break-ins and other similar events. For example, our headquarters and the majority of our infrastructure, including some of our servers, are located in Southern California, a seismically active region. We also maintain offshore and outsourced operations in the Philippines, an area that has been subjected to a typhoon and a volcanic eruption in the past. In addition, California has in the past experienced power outages as a result of limited electrical power supplies and due to recent fires in the southern part of the state. Such outages, natural disasters and similar events may recur in the future and could disrupt the operation of our business. Our technology infrastructure is also vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Although the critical portions of our systems are redundant and backup copies are maintained offsite, not all of our systems and data are fully redundant. We do not presently have a formal disaster recovery plan in effect and may not have sufficient insurance for losses that may occur from natural disasters or catastrophic events. Any substantial disruption of our technology infrastructure could cause interruptions or delays in our business and loss of data or render us unable to accept and fulfill customer orders or operate our websites in a timely manner, or at all.. Risks Related To Our Capital Stock. Our common stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, which may result in losses to our stockholders.. The market prices of technology and e-commerce companies generally have been extremely volatile and have recently experienced sharp share price and trading volume changes. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this report and other factors beyond our control such as fluctuations in the operations or valuations of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us, our ability to meet analysts' expectations, our trading volume, activities of activist investors, the impact of any stock repurchase program or conditions or trends in the Internet or auto parts industries.. Since the completion of our initial public offering in February 2007 through December 30, 2017, the trading price of our common stock has been volatile, ranging from a high of $12.61 per share to a low per share of $0.91. We have also experienced significant fluctuations in the trading volume of our common stock. General economic and political conditions unrelated to our performance may also adversely affect the price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been initiated. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of any such litigation if it were initiated. The initiation of any such litigation or an unfavorable result could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 13. In May 2017, Oak Investment Partners XI, L.P., our then largest stockholder, distributed approximately 28% of our outstanding shares of common stock on an as converted basis to its limited partners,, and any sale of such shares into the market in the future could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well.. In May 2017, Oak Investment Partners XI, L.P., our then largest stockholder, distributed approximately 28% of our outstanding shares of common stock on an as converted basis to its limited partners. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by Oak's limited partners, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We are unable to predict the effect that sales or perceived sales by these stockholders may have on the prevailing market price of our common stock.. Our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market (\"NASDAQ\") if we are unable to maintain compliance with Nasdaq's continued listing standards.. NASDAQ imposes, among other requirements, continued listing standards including minimum bid and public float requirements. The price of our common stock must trade at or above $1.00 to comply with NASDAQ's minimum bid requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ. If our stock trades at bid prices of less than $1.00 for a period in excess of 30 consecutive business days, the NASDAQ could send a deficiency notice to us for not remaining in compliance with the minimum bid listing standards. While our common stock has not recently traded below $1.00, if the closing bid price of our common stock were to fail to meet NASDAQ's minimum closing bid price requirement, or if we otherwise fail to meet any other applicable requirements of the NASDAQ and we are unable to regain compliance, NASDAQ may make a determination to delist our common stock.. Any delisting of our common stock could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and the market price of our common stock could decrease. Furthermore, if our common stock were delisted it could adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and/or result in the loss of confidence by investors, customers, suppliers and employees.. The rights, preferences and privileges of our existing preferred stock may restrict our financial and operational flexibility and may dilute our common stockholders.. In March 2013, our Board of Directors, under the authority granted by our Certificate of Incorporation, established a series of preferred stock, our Series A Convertible Preferred, which has various rights, preferences and privileges senior to the shares of our common stock. Dividends on the Series A Convertible Preferred are payable quarterly, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, at a rate of $0.058 per share per annum in cash, in shares of common stock or in any combination of cash and common stock as determined by our Board of Directors. While we may, at our election, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, pay any accrued but unpaid dividends on the Series A Convertible Preferred in either cash or in common stock, we may be unable to satisfy the requisite conditions for paying dividends in common stock and, under such circumstances, we will be required to pay such accrued but unpaid dividends in cash. In such circumstances, we will be required to use cash that would otherwise be used to fund our ongoing operations to pay such accrued but unpaid dividends. To the extent we do pay dividends in common stock as we have done in certain prior periods, the ownership percentage of our common stockholders who are not holders of the Series A Convertible Preferred will be diluted. Our Series A Convertible Preferred is initially convertible for 2,770,687 shares of common stock, and to the extent that the Series A Convertible Preferred is converted, the common stock ownership percentage of our common stockholders who are not converting holders of the Series A Convertible Preferred will be diluted.. Our future operating results may fluctuate and may fail to meet market expectations.. We expect that our revenue and operating results will continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our quarterly revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could significantly decline. The factors that could cause our operating results to continue to fluctuate include, but are not limited to:. • fluctuations in the demand for aftermarket auto parts;. • price competition on the Internet or among offline retailers for auto parts;. • our ability to attract visitors to our websites and convert those visitors into customers, including to the extent based on our ability to successfully work with different search engines to drive visitors to our websites;. • our ability to successfully sell our products through third-party online marketplaces or the effects of any price increases in those marketplaces;. 14. • competition from companies that have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition, access to merchandise at lower costs and significantly greater resources than we do, like third-party online market places and our suppliers;. • our ability to maintain and expand our supplier and distribution relationships without significant price increases or reduced service levels;. • our ability to borrow funds under our credit facility;. • the effects of seasonality on the demand for our products;. • our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products, price our products at market rates and maintain appropriate inventory levels;. • our ability to build and maintain customer loyalty;. • our ability to successfully integrate our acquisitions;. • infringement actions that could impact the viability of the auto parts aftermarket or portions thereof;. • the success of our brand-building and marketing campaigns;. • our ability to accurately project our future revenues, earnings, and results of operations;. • government regulations related to use of the Internet for commerce, including the application of existing tax regulations to Internet commerce and changes in tax regulations;. • technical difficulties, system downtime or Internet brownouts;. • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; and. • macroeconomic conditions that adversely impact the general and automotive retail sales environment.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting or comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and our stock price could decline.. While management has concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were effective as of December 30, 2017, we have in the past, and could in the future, have a significant deficiency or material weakness in internal control over financial reporting or fail to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we fail to properly maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, it could impact our ability to prevent fraud or to issue our financial statements in a timely manner that presents fairly our financial condition and results of operations. The existence of any such deficiencies or weaknesses, even if remediated, may also lead to the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. Such deficiencies or material weaknesses may also subject us to lawsuits, regulatory investigations and other penalties.. Our charter documents could deter a takeover effort, which could inhibit your ability to receive an acquisition premium for your shares.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Such provisions include the following:. • our Board of Directors are authorized, without prior stockholder approval, to create and issue preferred stock which could be used to implement anti-takeover devices;. • advance notice is required for director nominations or for proposals that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings;. • our Board of Directors is classified such that not all members of our board are elected at one time, which may make it more difficult for a person who acquires control of a majority of our outstanding voting stock to replace all or a majority of our directors;. • stockholder action by written consent is prohibited except with regards to an action that has been approved by the Board;. • special meetings of the stockholders are permitted to be called only by the chairman of our Board of Directors, our chief executive officer or by a majority of our Board of Directors;. 15. • stockholders are not permitted to cumulate their votes for the election of directors; and. • stockholders are permitted to amend certain provisions of our bylaws only upon receiving at least 66 2/3% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of all outstanding shares then entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock.. We currently do not expect to pay any cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future.. General Market and Industry Risk. Economic conditions have had, and may continue to have an adverse effect on the demand for aftermarket auto parts and could adversely affect our sales and operating results.. We sell aftermarket auto parts consisting of collision and engine parts used for repair and maintenance, performance parts used to enhance performance or improve aesthetics and accessories that increase functionality or enhance a vehicle's features. Demand for our products has been and may continue to be adversely affected by general economic conditions. In declining economies, consumers often defer regular vehicle maintenance and may forego purchases of nonessential performance and accessories products, which can result in a decrease in demand for auto parts in general. Consumers also defer purchases of new vehicles, which immediately impacts performance parts and accessories, which are generally purchased in the first six months of a vehicle's lifespan. In addition, during economic downturns some competitors may become more aggressive in their pricing practices, which would adversely impact our gross margin and could cause large fluctuations in our stock price. Certain suppliers may exit the industry which may impact our ability to procure parts and may adversely impact gross margin as the remaining suppliers increase prices to take advantage of limited competition.. The seasonality of our business places increased strain on our operations.. We have historically experienced higher sales of collision parts in winter months when inclement weather and hazardous road conditions typically result in more automobile collisions. Engine parts and performance parts and accessories have historically experienced higher sales in the summer months when consumers have more time to undertake elective projects to maintain and enhance the performance of their automobiles and the warmer weather during that time is conducive for such projects.  We also have experienced increased demand following the issuance of tax rebates by the government. If we do not stock or restock popular products in sufficient amounts such that we fail to meet increased customer demand, it could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. Likewise, if we overstock products in anticipation of increased demand, we may be required to take significant inventory markdowns or write-offs and incur commitment costs, which could reduce profitability.. Vehicle miles driven, vehicle accident rates and insurance companies' willingness to accept a variety of types of replacement parts in the repair process have fluctuated and may decrease, which could result in a decline of our revenues and negatively affect our results of operations.. We and our industry depend on the number of vehicle miles driven, vehicle accident rates and insurance companies' willingness to accept a variety of types of replacement parts in the repair process. Decreased miles driven reduce the number of accidents and corresponding demand for crash parts, and reduce the wear and tear on vehicles with a corresponding reduction in demand for vehicle repairs and replacement or engine parts. If consumers were to drive less in the future and/or accident rates were to decline, as a result of higher gas prices, increased use of ride-shares, the advancement of driver assistance technologies, or otherwise, our sales may decline and our business and financial results may suffer.. We may become liable for collecting and paying more sales taxes, and other fees and penalties, which could have an adverse effect on our business.. We currently collect sales or other similar taxes only on the shipment of goods to customers in the states of California, Virginia, Illinois, and Ohio.  Other states or jurisdictions could seek to impose or enforce sales tax collection or other tax obligations on us because we engage in and facilitate online commerce.. To the extent we are not subject to certain tax obligations, we enjoy a competitive advantage to the extent our competitors are subject to those obligations. Several states have enacted, and a number of states and the U.S. Congress have been considering, various initiatives that could impose broad sales and use tax collection obligations on Internet retailers. Federal, state and local governments could accelerate efforts to pass Internet sales tax initiatives in response to pressure to make up budgetary shortfalls resulting from recessionary economic conditions and the failure to collect sales and use taxes on Internet. 16. purchases under current self-assessment regimes. Any of these initiatives would increase total costs to our customers, which could adversely affect our sales.. We are closely monitoring developments in this area. The imposition by national, state and local governments of various tax obligations upon Internet commerce could create significant administrative burdens for us as well as substantially impair the growth of our e-commerce business, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Because our consumer websites and product deliveries are available in all 50 states, some or all of those jurisdictions may require us to register or qualify to do business in their jurisdictions. If we fail to collect and remit or pay required sales or other taxes in a jurisdiction, or qualify or register to do business in a jurisdiction that requires us to do so or if we have failed to do so in the past, we could face material liabilities for taxes, fees, interest and penalties. If various jurisdictions impose new tax obligations on our business activities, our sales and net income in those jurisdictions could decrease significantly, which could harm our business.. If we do not respond to technological change, our websites could become obsolete and our financial results and conditions could be adversely affected.. We maintain a network of websites which requires substantial development and maintenance efforts, and entails significant technical and business risks. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our websites. The Internet and the e-commerce industry are characterized by rapid technological change, the emergence of new industry standards and practices and changes in customer requirements and preferences. Therefore, we may be required to license emerging technologies, enhance our existing websites, develop new services and technology that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our current and prospective customers, and adapt to technological advances and emerging industry and regulatory standards and practices in a cost-effective and timely manner. Our ability to remain technologically competitive may require substantial expenditures and lead time and our failure to do so may harm our business and results of operations.. Existing or future government regulation could expose us to liabilities and costly changes in our business operations and could reduce customer demand for our products and services.. We are subject to federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations, including laws protecting the privacy of customer non-public information and regulations prohibiting unfair and deceptive trade practices, as well as laws and regulations governing businesses in general and the Internet and e-commerce and certain environmental laws. Additional laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the Internet, the effect of which on e-commerce is uncertain. These laws may cover issues such as user privacy, spyware and the tracking of consumer activities, marketing e-mails and communications, other advertising and promotional practices, money transfers, pricing, content and quality of products and services, taxation, electronic contracts and other communications, intellectual property rights, and information security. Furthermore, it is not clear how existing laws such as those governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, trespass, data mining and collection, and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce. To the extent we expand into international markets, we will be faced with complying with local laws and regulations, some of which may be materially different than U.S. laws and regulations. Any such foreign law or regulation, any new U.S. law or regulation, or the interpretation or application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet or other online services or our business in general, may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations by, among other things, impeding the growth of the Internet, subjecting us to fines, penalties, damages or other liabilities, requiring costly changes in our business operations and practices, and reducing customer demand for our products and services. We may not maintain sufficient insurance coverage to cover the types of claims or liabilities that could arise as a result of such regulation.. We may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory, or market responses to such change.. The growing political and scientific sentiment is that global weather patterns are being influenced by increased levels of greenhouse gases in the earth's atmosphere. This growing sentiment and the concern over climate change have led to legislative and regulatory initiatives aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions which warm the earth's atmosphere. These warmer weather conditions could result in a decrease in demand for auto parts in general. Moreover, proposals that would impose mandatory requirements on greenhouse gas emissions continue to be considered by policy makers in the United States. Laws enacted that directly or indirectly affect our suppliers (through an increase in the cost of production or their ability to produce satisfactory products) or our business (through an impact on our inventory availability, cost of sales, operations or demand for the products we sell) could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Significant increases in fuel economy requirements or new federal or state restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide that may be imposed on vehicles and automobile fuels could adversely affect demand for vehicles, annual miles driven or the products we sell or lead to changes in automotive technology. Compliance with any new or more stringent laws or regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws, could require additional expenditures by us or our suppliers. Our inability to respond to such. 17. changes could adversely impact the demand for our products and our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. The United States government may substantially increase border controls and impose restrictions on cross-border commerce that may substantially harm our business.. We purchase a substantial portion of our products from foreign manufacturers and other suppliers who source products internationally. Restrictions on shipping goods into the United States from other countries pose a substantial risk to our business. Particularly since the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, the United States government has substantially increased border surveillance and controls. In addition, President Trump has indicated he supports the implementation of tariffs on goods exported from overseas and it is possible he will introduce legislation supporting his position. If the United States were to impose further border controls and restrictions, impose quotas, tariffs or import duties, increase the documentation requirements applicable to cross border shipments or take other actions that have the effect of restricting the flow of goods from other countries to the United States, we may have greater difficulty acquiring our inventory in a timely manner, experience shipping delays, or incur increased costs and expenses, all of which would substantially harm our business and results of operations.. 18"
