[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. There are many factors that may affect our business and results of operations. Additional discussion regarding factors that may affect our business and operating results is included elsewhere in this Report.. Our holding company structure could limit our ability to pay dividends or debt service.. We are a holding company whose material assets are the stock of our subsidiaries. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and to pay principal and accrued interest on our debt, if any, depends on the payment of dividends to us by our principal subsidiaries, AmeriGas, Inc., UGI Utilities, and Enterprises (including UGI International). Payments to us by those subsidiaries, in turn, depend upon their consolidated results of operations and cash flows. The operations of our subsidiaries are affected by conditions beyond our control, including weather, local regulations, competition in national and international markets we serve, the costs and availability of propane, butane, natural gas, electricity, and other energy sources and capital market conditions. The ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us is also affected by the level of indebtedness of our subsidiaries, which is substantial, and the restrictions on payments to us imposed under the terms of such indebtedness.. Supplier defaults may have a negative effect on our operating results.. When the Company's subsidiaries enter into fixed-price sales contracts with customers, they typically enter into fixed-price purchase contracts with suppliers. Depending on changes in the market prices of products compared to the prices secured in our contracts with suppliers of LPG, natural gas and electricity, a default of one or more of our suppliers under such contracts could cause us to purchase those commodities at higher prices, which would have a negative impact on our operating results.. We are dependent on our principal propane suppliers, which increases the risks from an interruption in supply and transportation.. During Fiscal 2017, AmeriGas Propane purchased over 88% of its propane needs from twenty suppliers.  If supplies from these sources were interrupted, the cost of procuring replacement supplies and transporting those supplies from alternative locations might be materially higher and, at least on a short-term basis, our earnings could be affected.  Additionally, in certain geographic areas, a single supplier may provide more than 50% of AmeriGas Propane's propane requirements.  Disruptions in supply in these geographic areas could also have an adverse impact on our earnings.  Our international businesses are similarly dependent upon their suppliers.  For example, during Fiscal 2017, UGI International's business in the United Kingdom purchased over 90% of its propane needs from two suppliers.  There is no assurance that our international businesses will be able to continue to acquire sufficient supplies of LPG to meet demand at prices or within time periods that would allow them to remain competitive.. Our ability to grow our businesses will be adversely affected if we are not successful in making acquisitions or integrating the acquisitions we have made.. One of our strategies is to grow through acquisitions in the U.S. and in international markets. We may choose to finance future acquisitions with debt, equity, cash or a combination of the three. We can give no assurances that we will find attractive acquisition candidates in the future, that we will be able to acquire such candidates on economically acceptable terms, that we will be able to finance acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, that any acquisitions will not be dilutive to earnings or that any additional debt incurred to finance an acquisition will not affect our ability to pay dividends.. In addition, the restructuring of the energy markets in the U.S. and internationally, including the privatization of government-owned utilities and the sale of utility-owned assets, is creating opportunities for, and competition from, well-capitalized competitors, which may affect our ability to achieve our business strategy.. To the extent we are successful in making acquisitions, such acquisitions involve a number of risks. These risks include, but are not limited to, the assumption of material liabilities, environmental liabilities, the diversion of management's attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations, difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees and difficulties in the assimilation of different cultures and practices and internal controls, as well as in the assimilation of broad and geographically dispersed personnel and operations. The failure to successfully integrate acquisitions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 19. Table of Contents. Regulators may not approve the rates we request and existing rates may be challenged, which may adversely affect our results of operations.. In our UGI Utilities segment, our distribution operations are subject to regulation by the PUC.  The PUC, among other things, approves the rates that UGI Utilities and its subsidiaries, PNG and CPG, may charge their utility customers, thus impacting the returns that UGI Utilities and its subsidiaries may earn on the assets that are dedicated to those operations.  We expect that UGI Utilities and its subsidiaries will periodically file requests with the PUC to increase base rates that each company charges customers.  If UGI Utilities or its applicable subsidiary is required in a rate proceeding to reduce the rates it charges its utility customers, or is unable to obtain approval for timely rate increases from the PUC, particularly when necessary to cover increased costs, UGI Utilities' or such subsidiary's revenue growth will be limited and earnings may decrease.. We are subject to operating and litigation risks that may not be covered by insurance.. Our business operations in the U.S. and other countries are subject to all of the operating hazards and risks normally incidental to the handling, storage and distribution of combustible products, such as LPG, propane and natural gas, and the generation of electricity.  These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, and severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment arising from explosions and other catastrophic events, including acts of terrorism.  As a result, we are sometimes a defendant in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business.  Additionally, environmental contamination could result in future legal proceedings.  There can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to pending and future claims or that such levels of insurance would be available in the future at economical prices.. Our operations, capital expenditures and financial results may be affected by regulatory changes and/or market responses to global climate change.. Increased regulation of GHG emissions, such as propane and methane, could impose significant additional costs on us, our suppliers and our customers. Some states have adopted laws and regulations regulating the emission of GHGs for some industry sectors.  For example, the California Environmental Protection Agency established a Cap & Trade program that requires certain covered entities, including propane companies, to purchase allowances to compensate for the GHG emissions created by their business operations.  In September 2009, the EPA issued a final rule establishing a system for mandatory reporting of GHG emissions. In November 2010, the EPA expanded the reach of its GHG reporting requirements to include the petroleum and natural gas industries, which include certain facilities of our natural gas distribution business.  These subject facilities have been required to monitor emissions since January 2011 and to submit detailed annual reports beginning in March 2012.  In October 2015, the EPA promulgated the Carbon Pollution Emission Guidelines for Existing Stationary Sources: Electric Utility Generating Units (the \"Clean Power Plan\"), which provides standards and guidelines for reducing existing power plants' GHG emissions and related pollutants by 2030.  However, in October 2017, the EPA announced its proposal to repeal the Clean Power Plan in its entirety on the grounds that it exceeds the EPA's delegated authority under the Clean Air Act.  At this time, we cannot predict the effect that climate change regulation may have on our business, financial condition or operations in the future.. Our international operations could be subject to increased risks, which may negatively affect our business results.. We currently operate LPG distribution and energy marketing businesses in Europe through our subsidiaries and we continue to explore the expansion of our international businesses.  As a result, we face risks in doing business abroad that we do not face domestically.  Certain aspects inherent in transacting business internationally could negatively impact our operating results, including:. • costs and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;. • tariffs and other trade barriers;. • difficulties in enforcing contractual rights;. • longer payment cycles;. • local political and economic conditions;. • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriating earnings, potential increases to corporate income taxes and the threat of \"double taxation\";. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which can affect demand and increase our costs;. • internal control and risk management practices and policies;. • potential violations of federal regulatory requirements, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and European Union regulatory requirements;. • regulatory requirements and changes in regulatory requirements, including Norwegian, Swiss and EU competition laws that may adversely affect the terms of contracts with customers, including with respect to exclusive supply rights, and. 20. Table of Contents. stricter regulations applicable to the storage and handling of LPG; and. • new and inconsistently enforced LPG industry regulatory requirements, which can have an adverse effect on our competitive position.. Changes in data privacy and protection laws and regulations, particularly in Europe, or any failure to comply which such laws and regulations, could adversely affect our business and financial results.. There has been increased public attention regarding the use of personal information and data transfer, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer and personal privacy. The law in these areas continues to develop and the changing nature of privacy laws in the U.S., the European Union and elsewhere could impact our processing of personal and sensitive information of our employees, vendors and customers. The European Union adopted a comprehensive General Data Privacy Regulation (the \"GDPR\") in May 2016 that will replace the current EU Data Protection Directive and related country-specific legislation. The GDPR will become fully effective in May 2018.. The GDPR requires companies to satisfy new requirements regarding the handling of personal and sensitive data, including its use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. Failure to comply with GDPR requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. The GDPR and other similar laws and regulations, as well as any associated inquiries or investigations or any other government actions, may be costly to comply with, result in negative publicity, increase our operating costs, require significant management time and attention, and subject us to remedies that may harm our business, including fines or demands or orders that we modify or cease existing business practices.. Expanding our midstream asset business by constructing new facilities subjects us to risks.. We seek to grow our midstream asset business by constructing new pipelines and gathering systems.  These construction projects involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control and require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. These projects may not be completed on schedule, or at all, or at the anticipated costs. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. We may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production and demand in an area in which anticipated growth and demand does not materialize. As a result, there is the risk that new and expanded facilities may not be able to attract enough customers to achieve our expected investment returns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Decreases in the demand for our energy products and services because of warmer-than-normal heating season weather or unfavorable weather may adversely affect our results of operations.. Because many of our customers rely on our energy products and services to heat their homes and businesses, our results of operations are adversely affected by warmer-than-normal heating season weather. Weather conditions have a significant impact on the demand for our energy products and services for both heating and agricultural purposes.  Accordingly, the volume of our energy products sold is at its highest during the peak heating season of October through March and is directly affected by the severity of the winter weather.  For example, historically, approximately 60% to 70% of AmeriGas Partners' annual retail propane volume, 60% to 70% of the annual retail LPG volume of UGI International's operations in France, and 60% to 70% of Gas Utility's natural gas throughput (the total volume of gas sold to or transported for customers within our distribution system) has been sold during these months.  There can be no assurance that normal winter weather in our market areas will occur in the future.. Energy efficiency and technology advances, as well as price induced customer conservation, may result in reduced demand for our energy products and services.. The trend toward increased conservation and technological advances, including installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces and other heating devices, may reduce the demand for energy products. Prices for LPG and natural gas are subject to volatile fluctuations in response to changes in supply and other market conditions. During periods of high energy commodity costs, our prices generally increase, which may lead to customer conservation and attrition. A reduction in demand could lower our revenues and, therefore, lower our net income and adversely affect our cash flows. State and/or federal regulation may require mandatory conservation measures, which would reduce the demand for our energy products. We cannot predict the materiality of the effect of future conservation measures or the effect that any technological advances in heating, conservation, energy generation or other devices might have on our operations.. Changes in commodity market prices may have a significant negative effect on our liquidity.. Depending on the terms of our contracts with suppliers as well as our use of financial instruments to reduce volatility in the cost of propane, changes in the market price of propane can create margin payment obligations for us and expose us to an increased. 21. Table of Contents. liquidity risk.  In addition, increased demand for domestically produced propane overseas may, depending on production volumes in the U.S., result in higher domestic propane prices and expose us to additional liquidity risks.. Our potential to increase revenues may be affected by the decline of the retail propane industry and our ability to retain and grow our customer base.. The retail LPG distribution industry in the U.S. and each of the Western European countries in which we operate is mature and has been declining over the past several years, with no or modest growth in total demand foreseen in the next several years. Accordingly, we expect that year-to-year industry volumes will be principally affected by weather patterns. Therefore, our ability to grow within the LPG industry is dependent on our ability to acquire other retail distributors and to achieve internal growth, which includes expansion of the domestic ACE and National Accounts programs in the U.S., as well as the success of our sales and marketing programs designed to attract and retain customers.  A failure to retain and grow our customer base would have an adverse effect on our results.. UGI Utilities' transmission and distribution systems may not operate as planned, which may increase expenses or decrease UGI Utilities' revenues and, thus, have an adverse effect on our financial results.. Our ability to manage operational risk with respect to UGI Utilities' transmission and distribution systems is critical to our financial results.  The business also faces several risks, including the breakdown or failure of or damage to equipment or processes (especially due to severe weather or natural disasters), accidents and other factors.  Operation of UGI Utilities' transmission and distribution systems below our expectations may result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs.. The risk of terrorism may adversely affect the economy and the price and availability of LPG, other refined fuels and natural gas.. Terrorist attacks and political unrest may adversely impact the price and availability of LPG (including propane), other refined fuels, and natural gas, as well as our results of operations, our ability to raise capital, and our future growth. The impact that the foregoing may have on our industries in general, and on us in particular, is not known at this time. An act of terror could result in disruptions of crude oil or natural gas supplies and markets (the sources of LPG), cause price volatility in the cost of propane, fuel oil, and natural gas, and our infrastructure facilities could be direct or indirect targets. Terrorist activity may also hinder our ability to transport LPG and other refined fuels if our means of supply transportation, such as rail or pipeline, become damaged as a result of an attack. A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could adversely affect our revenues or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism could also affect our ability to raise capital. We have opted to purchase insurance coverage for terrorist acts within our property and casualty insurance programs, but we can give no assurance that our insurance coverage would be adequate to fully compensate us for any losses to our business or property resulting from terrorist acts.. If we are unable to protect our information technology systems against service interruption, misappropriation of data, or breaches of security resulting from cyber security attacks or other events, or we encounter other unforeseen difficulties in the operation of our information technology systems, our operations could be disrupted, our business and reputation may suffer, and our internal controls could be adversely affected.. In the ordinary course of business, we rely on information technology systems, including the Internet and third-party hosted services, to support a variety of business processes and activities and to store sensitive data, including (i) intellectual property, (ii) our proprietary business information and that of our suppliers and business partners, (iii) personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, and (iv) data with respect to invoicing and the collection of payments, accounting, procurement, and supply chain activities.  In addition, we rely on our information technology systems to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with financial reporting, legal, and tax requirements.  Despite our security measures, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance, sabotage, or other disruptions.  A loss of our information technology systems, or temporary interruptions in the operation of our information technology systems, misappropriation of data, and breaches of security could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and reputation.  In addition, a cyber security attack could provide a cyber intruder with the ability to control or alter our pipeline operations.  Such an act could result in critical pipeline failures.. Moreover, the efficient execution of the Company's businesses is dependent upon the proper functioning of its internal systems, such as the information technology systems that support the Company's underlying business processes.  Any significant failure or malfunction of such information technology systems may result in disruptions of our operations.  In addition, the effectiveness of our internal controls could be adversely affected if we encounter unforeseen problems with respect to the operation of our. 22. Table of Contents. information technology systems.  While we have purchased cyber security insurance, there are no assurances that the coverage would be adequate in relation to any incurred losses.. Our operations may be adversely affected by competition from other energy sources.. Our energy products and services face competition from other energy sources, some of which are less costly for equivalent energy value. In addition, we cannot predict the effect that the development of alternative energy sources might have on our operations.. Our propane businesses compete for customers against suppliers of electricity, fuel oil and natural gas.  Electricity is a major competitor of propane but, except in France, is generally more expensive than propane on a Btu equivalent basis for space heating, water heating and cooking.  Notwithstanding cost, the convenience and efficiency of electricity make it an attractive energy source for consumers and developers of new homes.  In addition, due to the prevalence of nuclear electric generation in France, the cost of electricity is generally less expensive than that of LPG, particularly when the cost to install new equipment to convert to LPG is considered.  Fuel oil is also a major competitor of propane but is currently more expensive than propane as well as a less environmentally attractive energy source.  Historically, however, fuel oil has been less expensive than propane.  Furnaces and appliances that burn propane will not operate on fuel oil and vice versa, and, therefore, a conversion from one fuel to the other requires the installation of new equipment. Our customers generally have an incentive to switch to fuel oil only if fuel oil becomes significantly less expensive than propane.  Except for certain industrial and commercial applications, propane is generally not competitive with natural gas in areas where natural gas pipelines already exist because natural gas is generally a significantly less expensive source of energy than propane. The gradual expansion of natural gas distribution systems in our service areas has resulted, and may continue to result, in the availability of natural gas in some areas that previously depended upon propane. As long as natural gas remains a less expensive energy source than propane, our propane business will lose customers in each region into which natural gas distribution systems are expanded.. Our natural gas businesses compete primarily with electricity and fuel oil, and, to a lesser extent, with propane and coal. Competition among these fuels is primarily a function of their comparative price and the relative cost and efficiency of fuel utilization equipment. There can be no assurance that our natural gas revenues will not be adversely affected by this competition.. Our need to comply with, and respond to industry-wide changes resulting from, comprehensive, complex, and sometimes unpredictable governmental regulations, including regulatory initiatives aimed at increasing competition within our industry, may increase our costs and limit our revenue growth, which may adversely affect our operating results.. While we generally refer to our UGI Utilities segment as our \"regulated segment,\" there are many governmental regulations that have an impact on all of our businesses.  Currently, we are subject to extensive and changing international, federal, state, and local safety, health, transportation, tax, and environmental laws and regulations governing the storage, distribution, and transportation of our energy products.  Moreover, existing statutes and regulations may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to the Company that may affect our businesses in ways that we cannot predict.. New regulations, or a change in the interpretation of existing regulations, could result in increased expenditures.  In addition, for many of our operations, we are required to obtain permits from regulatory authorities and, in some cases, such regulatory permits could subject our operations to additional regulations and standards of conduct.  Failure to obtain or comply with these permits or applicable regulations and standards of conduct could result in civil and criminal fines or the cessation of the operations in violation.  Governmental regulations and policies in the U.S. and Europe may provide for subsidies or incentives to customers who use alternative fuels instead of carbon fuels.  These subsidies and incentives may result in reduced demand for our energy products and services.. We are investigating and remediating contamination at a number of present and former operating sites in the U.S., including former sites where we or our former subsidiaries operated manufactured gas plants. We have also received claims from third parties that allege that we are responsible for costs to clean up properties where we or our former subsidiaries operated a manufactured gas plant or conducted other operations.  Costs we incur to remediate sites outside of Pennsylvania cannot currently be recovered in PUC rate proceedings, and insurance may not cover all or even part of these costs. Our actual costs to clean up these sites may exceed our current estimates due to factors beyond our control, such as:. • the discovery of presently unknown conditions;. • changes in environmental laws and regulations;. • judicial rejection of our legal defenses to third-party claims; or. • the insolvency of other responsible parties at the sites at which we are involved.. Moreover, if we discover additional contaminated sites, we could be required to incur material costs, which would reduce our net. 23. Table of Contents. income.. We also may be unable to timely respond to changes within the energy and utility sectors that may result from regulatory initiatives to further increase competition within our industry.  Such regulatory initiatives may create opportunities for additional competitors to enter our markets and, as a result, we may be unable to maintain our revenues or continue to pursue our current business strategy.. Our profitability is subject to LPG pricing and inventory risk.. The retail LPG business is a \"margin-based\" business in which gross profits are dependent upon the excess of the sales price over LPG supply costs.  LPG is a commodity, and, as such, its unit price is subject to volatile fluctuations in response to changes in supply or other market conditions. We have no control over these market conditions. Consequently, the unit price of the LPG that our subsidiaries and other marketers purchase can change rapidly over a short period of time.  Most of our domestic LPG product supply contracts permit suppliers to charge posted prices at the time of delivery or the current prices established at major U.S. storage points such as Mont Belvieu, Texas or Conway, Kansas.  Most of our international LPG supply contracts are based on internationally quoted market prices.  Because our subsidiaries' profitability is sensitive to changes in wholesale propane supply costs, it will be adversely affected if we cannot pass on increases in the cost of propane to our customers. Due to competitive pricing in the industry, our subsidiaries may not fully be able to pass on product cost increases to our customers when product costs rise, or when our competitors do not raise their product prices in a timely manner.  Finally, market volatility may cause our subsidiaries to sell LPG at less than the price at which they purchased it, which would adversely affect our operating results.. Economic recession, volatility in the stock market and the low interest rate environment may negatively impact our pension liability.. Economic recession, volatility in the stock market and the low interest rate environment have had a significant impact on our pension liability and funded status.  Declines in the stock or bond market and valuation of stocks or bonds, combined with continued low interest rates, could further impact our pension liability and funded status and increase the amount of required contributions to our pension plans.. The adoption of financial reform legislation by the United States Congress and related regulations may have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to hedge risks associated with our business.. Congress adopted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (\"Act\") in 2010, which contains comprehensive financial reform legislation.  Our businesses are subject to Title VII of the Act, which imposes rules aimed at anti-market manipulation, and includes regulation on the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market.  The Act requires the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (\"CFTC\"), the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\") and other regulators to implement the Act's provisions.  Most rules and regulations required to be issued by the CFTC under the Act have been finalized, but there are some additional rules and regulations that have yet to be adopted.  It is possible that the rules and regulations under the Act may increase our cost of using derivative instruments to hedge risks associated with our business or may reduce the availability of such instruments to protect against risks we encounter.  While costs imposed directly on us due to regulatory requirements for derivatives under the Act, such as reporting recordkeeping and electing the end-user exception from mandatory clearing, are relatively minor, increased costs may arise from clearing, trade execution, margin, capital, reporting, recordkeeping, compliance and business conduct requirements imposed upon our counterparties to the extent those costs are passed through to us.  Position limits also may be imposed that could further limit our ability to hedge risks and may impose compliance and reporting obligations on us.  To the extent new rules and regulations impose on our bank counterparties more collateral or margin for individual transactions, our available liquidity also may be adversely affected.  Accordingly, our business and operating results may be adversely affected if, as a result of the Act and the rules and regulations promulgated under the Act, we are forced to reduce or modify our current use of derivatives.. 24. Table of Contents. Volatility in credit and capital markets may restrict our ability to grow, increase the likelihood of defaults by our customers and counterparties and adversely affect our operating results.. The volatility in credit and capital markets may create additional risks to our businesses in the future. We are exposed to financial market risk (including refinancing risk) resulting from, among other things, changes in interest rates and conditions in the credit and capital markets.  Developments in the credit markets during the past few years increase our possible exposure to the liquidity, default and credit risks of our suppliers and vendors, counterparties associated with derivative financial instruments and our customers. Although we believe that current financial market conditions, if they were to continue for the foreseeable future, will not have a significant impact on our ability to fund our existing operations, such market conditions could restrict our ability to grow through acquisitions, limit the scope of major capital projects if access to credit and capital markets is limited, or adversely affect our operating results."
