[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business faces many risks. As such, prospective investors and shareholders should carefully consider and evaluate all of the risk factors described below as well as other factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that are not currently believed by us to be material may also harm our business operations and financial results. These risk factors may change from time to time and may be amended, supplemented, or superseded by updates to the risk factors contained in periodic reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K that we file with the SEC in the future.. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from certain key customers.. We have one major customer, a large defense primary contractor, which comprised 18% and 12% of our revenues in 2017 and 2016, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2016, another large defense contractor comprised 13% of our sales; however, sales to this customer in 2017 comprised 3% of our sales. There were no other customers that comprised greater than 10% of our total revenues during these years. While we consider our relationship with our major customer to be good, the reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from this customer or this customer’s insolvency / inability to pay, for any reason, would reduce our revenue and operating income and could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition in other ways.. We may incur significant costs because of the warranties we supply with our products and services.. With respect to our battery products, we typically offer warranties against any defects in manufacture or workmanship for a period up to one year from the date of purchase. With respect to our communications systems products, we now offer up to a three-year warranty. We provide for a reserve for these potential warranty expenses, which is based on an analysis of historical warranty issues. There is no assurance that future warranty claims will be consistent with past history, and in the event we experience a significant increase in warranty claims, there is no assurance that our reserves will be sufficient. Excessive warranty claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A decline in demand for products using our batteries or communications systems could reduce demand for our products and/or our products could become obsolete resulting in lower revenues and profitability.. A substantial portion of our business depends on the continued demand for products using our batteries and communications systems sold by our customers, including original equipment manufacturers. Our success depends significantly upon the success of those customers’ products in the marketplace. We are subject to many risks beyond our control that influence the success or failure of a particular product or service offered by a customer, including:. <U+25CF>  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcompetition faced by the customer in its particular industry,. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmarket acceptance of the customer’s product or service,. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe engineering, sales, marketing and management capabilities of the customer,. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttechnical challenges unrelated to our technology or products faced by the customer in developing its products or services, and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe financial and other resources of the customer.. The market for our products is characterized by changing technology and evolving industry standards, often resulting in product obsolescence or short product lifecycles.  Although we believe that our products utilize state-of-the-art technology, there can be no assurance that competitors will not develop technologies or products that would render our technologies and products obsolete or less marketable. Many of the companies with which we compete have substantially greater resources than we do, and some have the capacity and volume of business to be able to produce their products more efficiently than we can.  In addition, these companies are developing or have developed products using a variety of technologies that are expected to compete with our technologies.  Furthermore, we have noted an increase in foreign competition, especially in Asia, over the last several years which tend to compete on price in the battery industry.  If these companies successfully market their products in a manner that renders our technologies obsolete, this would reduce our revenue and operating income and could have other material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 15. Our operations in China are subject to unique risks and uncertainties.. Our operating facility in China presents risks including, but not limited to, changes in local regulatory requirements, changes in labor laws, local wage laws, environmental regulations, taxes and operating licenses, compliance with U.S. regulatory requirements, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, uncertainties as to application and interpretation of local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights, currency restrictions, currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency, and currency revaluations, eminent domain claims, civil unrest, power outages, water shortages, labor shortages, labor disputes, increase in labor costs, rapid changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism, or the threat of boycotts, and other civil disturbances that are outside of our control. Any such disruptions could depress our earnings and have other material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. For example, during 2014 the landlord for our China facility informed us that the local village government in Shenzhen was exercising its right of eminent domain and that the lease for our facility would not be extended past its expiration in October 2014 due to zoning changes. Accordingly, we developed and executed a plan which we completed in 2015. Under the plan we found a replacement facility, entered into a five-year lease, negotiated compensation from the local government for our forfeited leasehold improvements and moving expenses, refurbished the replacement facility to meet our operational needs and relocated all of our operations and employees to the new facility. While this situation was handled on time, on plan and with no known disruption to our business, there can be no assurances that other situations posing such risks to the business will be successfully remediated to the same extent.. Our efforts to develop new products or new commercial applications for our products could be prolonged or could fail.. Although we develop certain products for new commercial applications, we cannot assure that these new products will be accepted due to the highly competitive nature of the industry. There are many new product and technology entrants into the markets into which we sell our products, and we must continually reassess the markets in which our products can be successful and seek to engage customers in those markets that will adopt our products for use in their products. In addition, these customers must be successful with their products in their markets for us to gain increased business. Increased competition, failure to gain customer acceptance of products, the introduction of competitive technologies or failure of our customers in their markets could have a further adverse effect on our business and reduce our revenue and operating income.. Breaches in security and other disruptions and/or our ability to prevent or respond to such breeches, could diminish our ability to generate revenues or contain costs and negatively impact our business in other ways.. We face certain security threats, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information, and threats to physical and cyber security.  Our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations.  The risks of a security breach, cyber attack, cyber intrusion, or disruption, particularly through actions taken by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, have increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased.  Although we have acquired and developed systems and processes designed to protect our proprietary or classified information, they may not be sufficient and the failure to prevent these types of events could disrupt our operations, require significant management attention and resources, and could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, and weaken our results of operations and liquidity.  In 2017, we formed a cyber security executive management committee with oversight responsibility to minimize the risk of breaches.  The committee is presently reviewing all key aspects of cyber security and has engaged outside security consultants to ensure a robust plan is in place.. Reductions or delays in U.S. and foreign military spending could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from contracts with the U.S. and foreign militaries or OEMs that supply the U.S. and foreign militaries. In the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, approximately $44,700 or 52% and $41,600 or 50%, respectively, of our revenues were comprised of sales made directly or indirectly to the U.S. and foreign militaries.. While significant gains have been made in commercial markets with our Battery & Energy Products business, we are still highly dependent on sales to U.S. Government customers. The amounts and percentages of our net revenue that were derived from sales to U.S. Government customers, including the Department of Defense, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately $35,100 or 41% in 2017 and $33,600 or 41% in 2016. Therefore, any significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the U.S. Government or any prime defense contractor could still significantly reduce our revenue. Our competitors continuously engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the U.S. Government and will continue these efforts in the future, and the U.S. Government may choose to use other contractors or suppliers.. 16. Budget and appropriations decisions made by the U.S. Government, including possible future sequestration periods or other similar formulaic reductions in federal expenditures, are outside of our control and have long-term consequences for our business. A continued decline in U.S. military expenditures could result in a reduction in the military’s demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our supply of raw materials and components could be disrupted.. Certain materials and components used in our products are available only from a single or a limited number of suppliers. As such, some materials and components could become in short supply resulting in limited availability and/or increased costs. Additionally, we may elect to develop relationships with a single or limited number of suppliers for materials and components that are otherwise generally available. Due to our involvement with supplying defense products to the U.S. government, we could receive a government preference to continue to obtain critical supplies to meet military production needs. However, if the government did not provide us with a government preference in such circumstances, the difficulty in obtaining supplies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that alternative suppliers are available to supply materials and components that could replace materials and components currently used and that, if necessary, we would be able to redesign our products to make use of such alternatives. However, any interruption in the supply from any supplier that serves as a sole source could delay product shipments and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced interruptions of product deliveries by sole source suppliers in the past, and we cannot guarantee that we will not experience a material interruption of deliveries from sole source suppliers in the future. Of particular note is the increased demand for Lithium-based cells from the electric vehicle manufacturers. While this has resulted in increased supply of such cells, we continue to monitor our supply chain closely to ensure that any potential supply interruptions are minimized.. Additionally, we could face increasing pricing pressure from our suppliers dependent upon volume due to rising costs by these suppliers that could be passed on to us in higher prices for our raw materials, which could increase our cost of business, lower our margins and have other materially adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our quarterly and annual results and the price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly.. Our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and from year-to-year depending on factors such as the timing and shipment of significant orders, new product introductions, major project wins, U.S. and foreign government demand, delays in customer releases of purchase orders, delays in receiving raw materials from vendors, the mix of distribution channels through which we sell our products and services and general economic conditions. Frequently, a substantial portion of our revenue in each quarter is generated from orders booked and fulfilled during that quarter. As a result, revenue levels are difficult to predict for each quarter. If revenue results are below expectations, operating results will be adversely affected as we have a sizeable base of fixed overhead costs that do not fluctuate much with changes in revenue. Due to such variances in operating results, we have sometimes failed to meet, and in the future may not meet, market expectations regarding our future operating results.. In addition to the uncertainties of quarterly and annual operating results, future announcements concerning us or our competitors, including technological innovations or commercial products, litigation or public concerns as to the safety or commercial value of one or more of our products may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially for reasons which may be unrelated to our operating results.. Any inability to comply with changes to the regulations for the shipment of our products could limit our ability to transport our products to customers in a cost-effective manner and reduce our operating income and margins.. The transportation of Lithium batteries is regulated by the International Civil Aviation Organization (“ICAO”) and corresponding International Air Transport Association (“IATA”) Dangerous Goods Regulations and the International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code (“IMDG”) and in the U.S. by the Department of Transportation’s Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (“PHMSA”). These regulations are based on the United Nations Recommendations on the Transport of Dangerous Goods Model Regulations and the United Nations Manual of Tests and Criteria. We currently ship our products pursuant to ICAO, IATA and PHMSA hazardous goods regulations. These regulations require companies to meet certain testing, packaging, labeling and shipping specifications for safety reasons. We have not incurred, and do not expect to incur, any significant costs in order to comply with these regulations. We believe we comply with all current U.S. and international regulations for the shipment of our products, and we intend and expect to comply with any new regulations that are imposed. We have established our own testing facilities to ensure that we comply with these regulations. If we are unable to comply with the new regulations, however, or if regulations are introduced that limit our ability to transport our products to customers in a cost-effective manner, this could reduce our operating income and margins, and have other material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 17. We are subject to certain safety risks, including the risk of fire, inherent in the manufacture, use and transportation of Lithium batteries.. Due to the high energy inherent in Lithium batteries, our Lithium batteries can pose certain safety risks, including the risk of fire.  We incorporate procedures in research, development, product design, manufacturing processes and the transportation of Lithium batteries that are intended to minimize safety risks, but we cannot assure that accidents will not occur or that our products will not be subject to recall for safety concerns.  Although we currently carry insurance policies which cover loss of the plant and machinery, leasehold improvements, inventory and business interruption, any accident, whether at the manufacturing facilities or from the use of the products, may result in significant production delays or claims for damages resulting from injuries or death.  While we maintain what we believe to be sufficient casualty liability coverage to protect against such occurrences, these types of losses could reduce our available cash and our operating and net income and have other material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operation.. Any impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, and other intangible assets, could negatively impact our results of operations.. Our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and are also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets may be impaired. Any excess goodwill and/or indefinite-lived intangible assets value resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. Intangible assets (other than goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets) are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets. In addition, from time to time, we may acquire or make an investment in a business which will require us to record goodwill based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired tangible and intangible assets. We may subsequently experience unforeseen issues with such business which adversely affect the anticipated results of the business or value of the intangible assets and trigger an evaluation of the recoverability of the recorded goodwill and intangible assets for such business. There is a possibility that our goodwill and other intangible assets could be impaired should there be a significant change in our internal forecasts and other assumptions we use in our impairment analysis. Future determinations of significant write-offs of goodwill or intangible assets as a result of an impairment test or accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a negative impact, although not affecting cash, on our results of operations.. Negative publicity of Lithium ion batteries may negatively impact the industries or markets we operate in.. We are unable to predict the impact, severity or duration of negative publicity related to fire / mishandling of Lithium ion batteries or the environmental impact of their disposal, and how it may impact the industries or markets we serve. Ongoing negative attention being given to Lithium ion batteries that are used in certain cellular phones or are integrated into the power systems of new commercial aircraft and electric motor vehicles may have an impact on the Lithium ion battery industry as a whole, regardless of the design or usage of those batteries. The residual effects of such events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our growth and expansion strategy could strain or overwhelm our resources.. Rapid growth of our business could significantly strain management, operations and technical resources. If we are successful in obtaining rapid market growth of our products, we will likely be required to deliver large volumes of quality products to customers on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. For example, demand for our new or existing products combined with our ability to penetrate new markets and geographies or secure a major project award, could strain the current capacity of our manufacturing facilities and require additional capital resources, equipment and time to meet the required demand. We cannot assure, however, that our business will grow rapidly or that our efforts to expand manufacturing and quality control activities will be successful or that we will be able to satisfy commercial scale production requirements on a timely and cost-effective basis.. We also may be required to continue to improve our operations, management and financial systems and controls in order to remain competitive. The failure to manage growth and expansion effectively could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 18. The loss of top management and key personnel could significantly harm our business, and our ability to put in place a succession plan and recruit experienced, competent management is critical to the success of the business.. The loss of top management and key personnel could significantly harm our business, and our ability to put in place a succession plan and recruit experienced, competent management is critical to the success of our business.  The continuity of our officers and executive team is vital to the successful implementation of our business model and growth strategy designed to deliver sustainable, consistent profitability.  A top management priority has been the development and implementation of a formal written succession plan to mitigate the risks associated with the loss of senior executives. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in our efforts to effectively implement our succession plan.. Because of the specialized, technical nature of our business, we are highly dependent on certain members of our management, sales, engineering and technical staffs.  The loss of these employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to effectively pursue our business strategy will depend upon, among other factors, the successful retention of our key personnel, recruitment of additional highly skilled and experienced managerial, sales, engineering and technical personnel, and the integration of such personnel obtained through business acquisitions.  We cannot assure that we will be able to retain or recruit this type of personnel.  An inability to hire sufficient numbers of people or to find people with the desired skills could result in greater demands being placed on limited management resources which could delay or impede the execution of our business plans and have other material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to foreign currency fluctuations.. We maintain manufacturing operations in North America, Europe and China, and we export products to various countries. We purchase materials and sell our products in foreign currencies, and therefore currency fluctuations may impact our pricing of products sold and materials purchased. While the percentage of our business with customers outside of the U.S. slightly declined in 2017, sales to such customers still make up a significant percentage of our total revenues. For example, in 2017, 44% our sales were to customers outside of the U.S. as compared to 45% in 2016. A future strengthening of the U.S. Dollar relative to our customers’ currencies could make our products relatively more expensive to them, and may adversely affect our sales levels and reduce profitability. In addition, our United Kingdom and China subsidiaries maintain their books in local currency and the translation of the subsidiary financial statements into U.S. dollars for our consolidated financial statements could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial results due to changes in local currency value relative to the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations by increasing our expenses and reducing our income. Finally, we maintain certain domestic U.S. cash balances denominated in foreign currencies, and the U.S. dollar equivalent of these balances fluctuates with changes in the foreign exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. dollar.. Our customers may not meet the volume expectations in our supply agreements.. We sell most of our products and services through supply agreements and contracts. While supply agreements and contracts contain volume-based pricing based on expected volumes, we cannot assure that adjustments to reflect volume shortfalls will be made under current industry practices because pricing is rarely adjusted retroactively when contract volumes are not achieved. Every effort is made to adjust future prices accordingly, but our ability to adjust prices is generally based on market conditions and we may not be able to adjust prices in various circumstances.. A finding that our proprietary and intellectual property rights are not enforceable or invalid could allow our competitors and others to produce competing products based on our proprietary and intellectual property or limit our ability to continue to manufacture and market our products.. We believe our success depends more on the knowledge, ability, experience and technological expertise of our employees than on the legal protection of patents and other proprietary rights. However, we claim proprietary rights in various unpatented technologies, know-how, trade secrets and trademarks relating to our products and manufacturing processes. We cannot guarantee the degree of protection these various claims may or will afford, or that competitors will not independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. We protect our proprietary rights in our products and operations through contractual obligations, including nondisclosure agreements with certain employees, customers, consultants and strategic partners. There can be no assurance as to the degree of protection these contractual measures may or will afford. We have had patents issued and have patent applications pending in the U.S. and elsewhere. We cannot assure (1) that patents will be issued from any of these pending applications, or that the claims allowed under any issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology, (2) that any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or (3) as to the degree or adequacy of protection any patents or patent applications may or will afford. Further, if we are found to be infringing third party patents, we cannot assure that we will not be subjected to significant damages or will be able to obtain licenses with respect to such patents on acceptable terms, if at all. The failure to obtain necessary licenses could delay product shipments or the introduction of new products, and costly attempts to design around such patents could foreclose the development, manufacture or sale of products.. 19. We are subject to the contract rules and procedures of the U.S. and foreign governments. These rules and procedures create significant risks and uncertainties for us that are not usually present in contracts with private parties.. We continue to develop battery products and communications systems to meet the needs of the U.S. and foreign governments. We compete in solicitations for awards of contracts. The receipt of an award, however, does not always result in the immediate release of an order and does not guarantee in any way any given volume of orders. Any delay of solicitations or anticipated purchase orders by, or future failure of, the U.S. or foreign governments to purchase products manufactured by us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In these scenarios we are also typically required to successfully meet contractual specifications and to pass various qualification-testing for the products under contract. Our inability to pass these tests in a timely fashion, as well as meet delivery schedules for orders released under contract, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, when a U.S. government contract is awarded, there is a government procedure that permits unsuccessful companies to formally protest such award if they believe they were unjustly treated in the evaluation process. As a result of these protests, the government is precluded from proceeding under these contracts until the protests are resolved. A prolonged delay in the resolution of a protest, or a reversal of an award resulting from such a protest could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We could be adversely affected by violations of the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), the U.K. Bribery Act or other anti-corruption laws.. The FCPA, U.K. Bribery Act and other anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments (to foreign officials and otherwise) and require companies to keep accurate books and records and maintain appropriate internal controls. Our training program and policies mandate compliance with such laws. We operate in some parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. If we are found to be liable for violations of anti-corruption laws (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others, including employees of our third party partners or agents), we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, incur significant internal investigation costs and suffer reputational harm.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards in the future may be limited, which could increase our tax liabilities and reduce our cash flow and net income.. At December 31, 2017, we had approximately $70,000 of U.S. and $13,000 of U.K. net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) and $2,000 of U.S. tax credit carryforwards available to offset future taxable income.  We continually assess the carrying value of these assets based on the relevant accounting standards.  The U.S. NOLs of $70,000 expire beginning in 2019 through 2034.  As of December 31, 2017, we reflected a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets to the extent they are not able to be offset by future reversing temporary differences.  As we continue to assess the realizability of our deferred tax assets, the amount of the valuation allowance could be reduced.  Achieving our business plan targets, particularly those relating to revenue and profitability, is integral to our assessment regarding the recoverability of our deferred tax assets.   The reduction of all or a portion of the valuation allowance could result in a significant one-time benefit to earnings followed in subsequent periods by an increase in our effective tax rate and increases in tax liabilities.. Compliance with government regulations regarding the use of \"conflict minerals\" may result in increased costs and risks to the company.. As part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the \"Act\"), the SEC has promulgated disclosure requirements regarding the use of certain minerals, which are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, known as conflict minerals. The disclosure rules were effective in May 2014. We are required to perform due diligence inquiries of our supply chain and publicly disclose whether we manufacture (as defined in the Act) any products that contain conflict minerals and could incur significant costs related to implementing a process that will meet the mandates of the Act. Additionally, customers typically rely on us to provide critical data regarding the parts they purchase, including conflict mineral information. Our material sourcing is broad-based and multi-tiered, and we may not be able to easily verify the origins for conflict minerals used in the products we sell. We have many suppliers and each provides conflict mineral information in a different manner, if at all. Accordingly, because the supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of conflict minerals used in our products. Additionally, customers may demand that the products they purchase be free of conflict minerals. This may limit the number of suppliers that can provide products in sufficient quantities to meet customer demand or at competitive prices.. 20. The U.S. and foreign governments can audit our contracts with their respective defense and government agencies and, under certain circumstances, can adjust the economic terms of those contracts.. A portion of our business comes from sales of products and services to the U.S. and foreign governments through various contracts. These contracts are subject to procurement laws and regulations that lay out policies and procedures for acquiring goods and services. The regulations also contain guidelines for managing contracts after they are awarded, including conditions under which contracts may be terminated, in whole or in part, at the government’s convenience or for default. Failure to comply with the procurement laws or regulations can result in civil, criminal or administrative proceedings involving fines, penalties, suspension of payments, or suspension or disbarment from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time.. We may incur significant costs because of known and unknown environmental matters.. National, state and local laws impose various environmental controls on the manufacture, transportation, storage, use and disposal of batteries and of certain chemicals used in the manufacture of batteries. We use and generate a variety of chemicals and other hazardous by-products in our manufacturing operations. These environmental laws govern, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges and the handling, storage and release of wastes and hazardous substances. Such laws and regulations can be complex and are subject to change. Although we believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with current environmental regulations and that, except as noted below, there are no environmental conditions that will require material expenditures for clean up at our present or former facilities or at facilities to which we have sent waste for disposal, there can be no assurance that changes in such laws and regulations will not impose costly compliance requirements on us or otherwise subject us to future liabilities. There can be no assurance that additional or modified regulations relating to the manufacture, transportation, storage, use and disposal of materials used to manufacture our batteries or restricting disposal of batteries will not be imposed, or as to how these regulations will affect our customers or us. Such changes in regulations could reduce our operating income and margins and have other material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of environmental laws, including clean up costs, fines and sanctions and third-party property damage or personal injury claims. Failure to comply with environmental requirements could also result in enforcement actions that materially limit or otherwise affect the operations of the facilities involved. Under certain environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of an environmentally contaminated site may be held liable for the entire cost of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous materials at such property. This liability could result whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous materials.. The EU RoHS Directive places restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. All applicable products sold in the European Union market after July 1, 2006 must comply with EU RoHS Directive. While this directive does not apply to batteries and does not currently affect our defense products, should any changes occur in the directive that would affect our products, we intend and expect to comply with any new regulations that are imposed.  Our commercial chargers are in compliance with this directive.  Additional European Union directives, entitled the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) Directive and the Directive \"on batteries and accumulators and waste batteries and accumulators\", impose regulations affecting our non-defense products. These directives require that producers or importers of particular classes of electrical goods are financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. These directives assign levels of responsibility to companies doing business in European Union markets based on their relative market share. These directives call on each European Union member state to enact enabling legislation to implement the directive. As additional European Union member states pass enabling legislation our compliance system should be sufficient to meet such requirements. Our current estimated costs associated with our compliance with these directives based on our current market share are not significant. However, we continue to evaluate the impact of these directives as European Union member states implement guidance, and actual costs could differ from our current estimates.. 21. The EU Battery Directive is intended to cover all types of batteries regardless of their shape, volume, weight, material composition or use.  It is aimed at reducing mercury, cadmium, lead and other metals in the environment by minimizing the use of these substances in batteries and by treating and re-using old batteries. This directive applies to all types of batteries except those used to protect European Member States' security, for military purposes, or sent into space.  To achieve these objectives, the EU Battery Directive prohibits the marketing of some batteries containing hazardous substances.  It establishes processes aimed at high levels of collection and recycling of batteries with quantified collection and recycling targets.  The directive sets out minimum rules for producer responsibility and provisions with regard to labeling of batteries and their removability from equipment.  Product markings are required for batteries and accumulators to provide information on capacity and to facilitate reuse and safe disposal.  We currently ship our products pursuant to the requirements of the directive. Our current estimated costs associated with our compliance with these directives based on our current market share are not significant. However, we continue to evaluate the impact of these directives as European Union member states implement guidance, and actual costs could differ from our current estimates.. The China RoHS 2 directive provides a regulatory framework, including similar hazardous substance restrictions as are imposed by the EU RoHS Directive, and applies to methods for the control and reduction of pollution and other public hazards to the environment caused during the production, sale, and import of EEP in China affecting a broad range of electronic products and parts. The regulatory framework of China RoHS 2, also now references the updated marking and labeling requirements under Standard SJ/T 11364-2014 (“Marking Standard”). The methods under China RoHS 2 only apply to EEP placed in the marketplace in China. We believe our compliance system is sufficient to meet our requirements under China RoHS 2. Our current estimated costs associated with our compliance with this regulation based on our current market share are not significant. However, we continue to evaluate the impact of this regulation, and actual costs could differ from our current estimates.. A number of domestic and international communities are prohibiting the landfill disposal of batteries and requiring companies to make provisions for product recycling.  Of particular note are the EU Batteries Directive and the New York State Rechargeable Battery Recycling Law. We are committed to responsible product stewardship and ongoing compliance with these and future statutes and regulations.  The compliance costs associated with current recycling statutes and regulations are not expected to be significant at this time. However, we continue to evaluate the impact of these regulations, and actual costs could differ from our current estimates and additional laws could be enacted by these and other states which entail greater costs of compliance."          
