[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Forward-Looking Statements. Some of the statements contained in this Form 10-K and the documents incorporated herein by reference constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements relate to expectations, beliefs, projections, future plans and strategies, anticipated events or trends and similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts, such as statements regarding our future financial condition or results of operations, our prospects and strategies for future growth, our anticipated charges and restructuring costs and the timing of these measures, the impact of recent tax reform legislation on our results of operations, the development and introduction of new products and the implementation of our marketing and branding strategies. In many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as \"may,\" \"will,\" \"should,\" \"expects,\" \"plans,\" \"anticipates,\" \"believes,\" \"estimates,\" \"predicts,\" \"outlook,\" \"potential\" or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology.. The forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K and the documents incorporated herein by reference reflect our current views about future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and changes in circumstances that may cause events or our actual activities or results to differ significantly from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future events, results, actions, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, those factors described in \"Risk Factors\" and \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\" These factors include without limitation:. • changes in general economic or market conditions that could affect overall consumer spending or our industry;. • changes to the financial health of our customers;. • our ability to successfully execute our long-term strategies;. • our ability to successfully execute any restructuring plans and realize expected benefits;. • our ability to effectively drive operational efficiency in our business;. • our ability to manage the increasingly complex operations of our global business;. • our ability to comply with existing trade and other regulations, and the potential impact of new trade and tax regulations on our profitability;. • our ability to effectively develop and launch new, innovative and updated products;. • our ability to accurately forecast consumer demand for our products and manage our inventory in response to changing demands;. • any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design, implementation or application of our new global operating and financial reporting information technology system;. • increased competition causing us to lose market share or reduce the prices of our products or to increase significantly our marketing efforts;. • fluctuations in the costs of our products;. • loss of key suppliers or manufacturers or failure of our suppliers or manufacturers to produce or deliver our products in a timely or cost-effective manner, including due to port disruptions;. • our ability to further expand our business globally and to drive brand awareness and consumer acceptance of our products in other countries;. • our ability to accurately anticipate and respond to seasonal or quarterly fluctuations in our operating results;. • our ability to successfully manage or realize expected results from acquisitions and other significant investments or capital expenditures;. • risks related to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;. • our ability to effectively market and maintain a positive brand image;. • the availability, integration and effective operation of information systems and other technology, as well as any potential interruption of such systems or technology;. 8. Table of Contents. • risks related to data security or privacy breaches;. • our ability to raise additional capital required to grow our business on terms acceptable to us;. • our potential exposure to litigation and other proceedings; and. • our ability to attract key talent and retain the services of our senior management and key employees.. The forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K reflect our views and assumptions only as of the date of this Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by numerous risks. You should carefully consider the risk factors detailed below in conjunction with the other information contained in this Form 10-K. Should any of these risks actually materialize, our business, financial condition and future prospects could be negatively impacted.. During a downturn in the economy, consumer purchases of discretionary items are affected, which could materially harm our sales, profitability and financial condition.. Many of our products may be considered discretionary items for consumers. Factors affecting the level of consumer spending for such discretionary items include general economic conditions, the availability of consumer credit and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Uncertainty in global economic conditions continues, and trends in consumer discretionary spending remain unpredictable. However, consumer purchases of discretionary items tend to decline during recessionary periods when disposable income is lower or during other periods of economic instability or uncertainty, which may slow our growth more than we anticipate. A downturn in the economies in markets in which we sell our products, particularly in North America, may materially harm our sales, profitability and financial condition.. We derive a substantial portion of our sales from large wholesale customers.  If the financial condition of our customers declines, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.. In 2017, sales through our wholesale channel represented approximately 61% of our net revenues.  We extend credit to our wholesale customers based on an assessment of a customer's financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. We face increased risk of order reduction or cancellation when dealing with financially ailing customers or customers struggling with economic uncertainty. During weak economic conditions, customers may be more cautious with orders or may slow investments necessary to maintain a high quality in-store experience for consumers, which may result in lower sales of our products. In addition, a slowing economy in our key markets or a continued decline in consumer purchases of sporting goods generally could have an adverse effect on the financial health of our customers. From time to time certain of our customers have experienced financial difficulties. To the extent one or more of our customers experience significant financial difficulty, bankruptcy, insolvency or cease operations, this could have a material adverse effect on our sales, our ability to collect on receivables and our financial condition and results of operations.. A decline in sales to, or the loss of, one or more of our key customers could result in a material loss of net revenues and negatively impact our prospects for growth.. We generate a significant portion of our wholesale revenues from sales to our largest customers. We currently do not enter into long term sales contracts with our key customers, relying instead on our relationships with these customers and on our position in the marketplace. As a result, we face the risk that these key customers may not increase their business with us as we expect, or may significantly decrease their business with us or terminate their relationship with us. The failure to increase our sales to these customers as much as we anticipate would have a negative impact on our growth prospects and any decrease or loss of these key customers' business could result in a material decrease in our net revenues and net income. In addition, our customers continue to experience ongoing industry consolidation, particularly in the sports specialty sector.  As this consolidation continues, it increases the risk that if any one customer significantly reduces their purchases of our products, we may be unable to find sufficient alternative customers to continue to grow our net revenues, or our net revenues may decline.. We may not successfully execute our long-term strategies, which may negatively impact our results of operations.. 9. Table of Contents. Our ability to execute on our long-term strategies depends, in part, on successfully executing on strategic growth initiatives in key areas, such as our international business, footwear and our global direct to consumer sales channel. Our growth in these areas depends on our ability to continue to successfully expand our global network of brand and factory house stores, grow our e-commerce and mobile application offerings throughout the world and continue to successfully increase our product offerings and market share in footwear. Our ability to continue to invest in these growth initiatives in the near-term may be negatively impacted by the performance of our North America business, which represented 77% of our total net revenues in 2017 but declined by 5% over 2016, and in particular the performance of our wholesale channel in North America.  Our ability to execute on our long-term strategy also depends on our ability to successfully manage our cost structure and drive return on our investments. If we cannot effectively execute our long-term growth strategies while managing costs effectively, our business and results of operations could be negatively impacted.. We may not fully realize the expected benefits of any restructuring plans or other operating or cost-saving initiatives, which may negatively impact our profitability.. We have recently announced restructuring plans designed to more closely align our financial resources against the critical priorities of our business.  These plans have included initiatives to improve operational efficiencies, and our 2017 restructuring plan included a reduction in our global workforce.  We may not achieve our targeted operational improvements and efficiencies, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, implementing any restructuring plan presents significant potential risks that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated operating improvements and/or cost reductions.  These risks include, among others, higher than anticipated costs in implementing our restructuring plans, management distraction from ongoing business activities, failure to maintain adequate controls and procedures while executing our restructuring plans, damage to our reputation and brand image and workforce attrition beyond planned reductions. If we fail to achieve targeted operating improvements and/or cost reductions, our profitability and results of operations could be negatively impacted and we may be required to implement additional restructuring-related activities, which may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term.. We must successfully manage the increasingly complex operations of our global business, or our business and results of operations may be negatively impacted.. We have expanded our business and operations rapidly since our inception and our net revenues have increased to $4,976.6 million in 2017 from $2,332.1 million in 2013.  We must continue to successfully manage the operational difficulties associated with expanding our business to meet increased consumer demand throughout the world. We may experience difficulties in obtaining sufficient raw materials and manufacturing capacity to produce our products, as well as delays in production and shipments, as our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing and manufacturing. We must also continually evaluate the need to expand critical functions in our business, including sales and marketing, product development and distribution functions, our management information systems and other processes and technology. To support these functions, we must hire, train and manage an increasing number of employees, and obtain more space to support our expanding workforce. We may not be successful in undertaking these types of initiatives cost effectively or at all, and could experience serious operating difficulties if we fail to do so. These growth efforts could also increase the strain on our existing resources. If we experience difficulties in supporting the growth of our business, we could experience an erosion of our brand image and a decrease in net revenues and net income.. If we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences, successfully develop and introduce new, innovative and updated products or engage our consumers, our net revenues and profitability may be negatively impacted.. Our success depends on our ability to identify and originate product trends as well as to anticipate and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. All of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, long lead times for certain of our products may make it hard for us to quickly respond to changes in consumer demands. Our new products may not receive consumer acceptance as consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of performance or other sports products or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes.. Even if we are successful in anticipating consumer preferences, our ability to adequately react to and address those preferences will in part depend upon our continued ability to develop and introduce innovative, high-quality products. If we fail to introduce technical innovation in our products or design products in the categories and styles that consumers want, demand for our products could decline and our brand image could be negatively impacted. Our. 10. Table of Contents. failure to anticipate and respond timely to changing consumer preferences or to effectively introduce new products and enter into new product categories that are accepted by consumers could result in a decrease in net revenues and excess inventory levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, if we experience problems with the quality of our products, our brand reputation may be negatively impacted and we may incur substantial expense to remedy the problems, which could negatively impact our results of operations.. In addition, consumer preferences regarding the shopping experience continue to rapidly evolve.  If we or our wholesale customers do not provide consumers with an attractive in-store experience, or if we do not continue to provide an engaging and user-friendly digital commerce platform that attracts consumers, our brand image and results of operations could be negatively impacted.. Our results of operations could be materially harmed if we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our products.. To ensure adequate inventory supply, we must forecast inventory needs and place orders with our manufacturers before firm orders are placed by our customers. In addition, a significant portion of our net revenues are generated by at-once orders for immediate delivery to customers, particularly during the last two quarters of the year, which historically has been our peak season. If we fail to accurately forecast customer demand we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product to deliver to our customers.. Factors that could affect our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products include:. • an increase or decrease in consumer demand for our products;. • our failure to accurately forecast consumer acceptance for our new products;. • product introductions by competitors;. • unanticipated changes in general market conditions or other factors, which may result in cancellations of advance orders or a reduction or increase in the rate of reorders or at-once orders placed by retailers;. • the impact on consumer demand due to unseasonable weather conditions;. • weakening of economic conditions or consumer confidence in future economic conditions, which could reduce demand for discretionary items, such as our products; and. • terrorism or acts of war, or the threat thereof, or political or labor instability or unrest which could adversely affect consumer confidence and spending or interrupt production and distribution of product and raw materials.. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs or write-offs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices or in less preferred distribution channels, which could impair our brand image and have an adverse effect on gross margin. In addition, if we underestimate the demand for our products, our manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet our customer requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of our products and our ability to recognize revenue, lost sales, as well as damage to our reputation and retailer and distributor relationships.. The difficulty in forecasting demand also makes it difficult to estimate our future results of operations and financial condition from period to period. A failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely impact our profitability or cause us not to achieve our expected financial results.. Sales of performance products may not continue to grow or may decline, which could negatively impact our sales and our ability to grow our business.. We believe continued growth in industry-wide sales of performance apparel, footwear and accessories will be largely dependent on consumers continuing to transition from traditional alternatives to performance products. If consumers are not convinced these products are a better choice than traditional alternatives, growth in the industry and our business could be adversely affected. In addition, because performance products are often more expensive than traditional alternatives, consumers who are convinced these products provide a better alternative may still not be convinced they are worth the extra cost.   If industry-wide sales of performance products do not continue to grow or rather decline, our sales could be negatively impacted and we may not achieve our expected financial results.  In addition, our ability to continue to grow our business in line with our expectations could be adversely impacted.. We operate in highly competitive markets and the size and resources of some of our competitors may allow them to compete more effectively than we can, resulting in a loss of our market share and a decrease in our net revenues and gross profit.. 11. Table of Contents. The market for performance apparel, footwear and accessories is highly competitive and includes many new competitors as well as increased competition from established companies expanding their production and marketing of performance products. Because we own a limited number of fabric or process patents, our current and future competitors are able to manufacture and sell products with performance characteristics and fabrications similar to certain of our products. Many of our competitors are large apparel and footwear companies with strong worldwide brand recognition. Due to the fragmented nature of the industry, we also compete with other manufacturers, including those specializing in products similar to ours and private label offerings of certain retailers, including some of our retail customers. Many of our competitors have significant competitive advantages, including greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources, longer operating histories, better brand recognition among consumers, more experience in global markets and greater economies of scale. In addition, our competitors have long term relationships with our key retail customers that are potentially more important to those customers because of the significantly larger volume and product mix that our competitors sell to them. As a result, these competitors may be better equipped than we are to influence consumer preferences or otherwise increase their market share by:. • quickly adapting to changes in customer requirements or consumer preferences;. • readily taking advantage of acquisition and other opportunities;. • discounting excess inventory that has been written down or written off;. • devoting resources to the marketing and sale of their products, including significant advertising, media placement, partnerships and product endorsement;. • adopting aggressive pricing policies; and. • engaging in lengthy and costly intellectual property and other disputes.. In addition, while one of our growth strategies has been to increase floor space for our products in retail stores and generally expand our distribution to other retailers, retailers have limited resources and floor space, and we must compete with others to develop relationships with them. Increased competition by existing and future competitors could result in reductions in floor space in retail locations, reductions in sales or reductions in the prices of our products, and if retailers have better sell through or earn greater margins from our competitors' products, they may favor the display and sale of those products. Our inability to compete successfully against our competitors and maintain our gross margin could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on pricing.. Our industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer demand. These factors may cause us to reduce our prices to retailers and consumers or engage in more promotional activity than we anticipate, which could negatively impact our margins and cause our profitability to decline if we are unable to offset price reductions with comparable reductions in our operating costs. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, ongoing and sustained promotional activities could negatively impact our brand image.. Fluctuations in the cost of products could negatively affect our operating results.. The fabrics used by our suppliers and manufacturers are made of raw materials including petroleum-based products and cotton. Significant price fluctuations or shortages in petroleum or other raw materials can materially adversely affect our cost of goods sold. In addition, certain of our manufacturers are subject to government regulations related to wage rates, and therefore the labor costs to produce our products may fluctuate. The cost of transporting our products for distribution and sale is also subject to fluctuation due in large part to the price of oil. Because most of our products are manufactured abroad, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographical distances and an increase in the price of oil can significantly increase costs. Manufacturing delays or unexpected transportation delays can also cause us to rely more heavily on airfreight to achieve timely delivery to our customers, which significantly increases freight costs. Any of these fluctuations may increase our cost of products and have an adverse effect on our profit margins, results of operations and financial condition.. We rely on third-party suppliers and manufacturers to provide raw materials for and to produce our products, and we have limited control over these suppliers and manufacturers and may not be able to obtain quality products on a timely basis or in sufficient quantity.. Many of the materials used in our products are technically advanced products developed by third parties and may be available, in the short-term, from a very limited number of sources. Substantially all of our products are. 12. Table of Contents. manufactured by unaffiliated manufacturers, and, in 2017, 10 manufacturers produced approximately 57% of our apparel and accessories products, and five produced approximately 83% of our footwear products. We have no long term contracts with our suppliers or manufacturing sources, and we compete with other companies for fabrics, raw materials, production and import quota capacity.. We may experience a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials from current sources or, in the event of a disruption, we may be unable to locate alternative materials suppliers of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all. In addition, our unaffiliated manufacturers may not be able to fill our orders in a timely manner. If we experience significant increased demand, or we lose or need to replace an existing manufacturer or supplier as a result of adverse economic conditions or other reasons, additional supplies of fabrics or raw materials or additional manufacturing capacity may not be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or suppliers or manufacturers may not be able to allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. In addition, even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing or fabric sources, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our suppliers and manufacturers on our methods, products and quality control standards. Any delays, interruption or increased costs in the supply of fabric or manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet retail customer and consumer demand for our products and result in lower net revenues and net income both in the short and long term.. We have occasionally received, and may in the future continue to receive, shipments of product that fail to conform to our quality control standards. In that event, unless we are able to obtain replacement products in a timely manner, we risk the loss of net revenues resulting from the inability to sell those products and related increased administrative and shipping costs. In addition, because we do not control our manufacturers, products that fail to meet our standards or other unauthorized products could end up in the marketplace without our knowledge, which could harm our brand and our reputation in the marketplace.. Labor disruptions at ports or our suppliers or manufacturers may adversely affect our business.. Our business depends on our ability to source and distribute products in a timely manner. As a result, we rely on the free flow of goods through open and operational ports worldwide and on a consistent basis from our suppliers and manufacturers. Labor disputes at various ports or at our suppliers or manufacturers create significant risks for our business, particularly if these disputes result in work slowdowns, lockouts, strikes or other disruptions during our peak importing or manufacturing seasons, and could have an adverse effect on our business, potentially resulting in canceled orders by customers, unanticipated inventory accumulation or shortages and reduced net revenues and net income.. Our limited operating experience and limited brand recognition in new markets may limit our expansion strategy and cause our business and growth to suffer.. Our future growth depends in part on our expansion efforts outside of North America. During the year ended December 31, 2017, 77% of our net revenues were earned in our North America segment. We have limited experience with regulatory environments and market practices in certain regions outside of North America, and may face difficulties in expanding to and successfully operating in those markets. International expansion may place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources and may be more costly than we expect. In addition, in connection with expansion efforts outside of North America, we may face cultural and linguistic differences, differences in regulatory environments, labor practices and market practices and difficulties in keeping abreast of market, business and technical developments and customers' tastes and preferences. We may also encounter difficulty expanding into new markets because of more limited brand recognition leading to delayed acceptance of our products. Failure to develop new markets outside of North America will limit our opportunities for growth.. The operations of many of our manufacturers are subject to additional risks that are beyond our control and that could harm our business.. In 2017, our products were manufactured by 39 primary manufacturers, operating in 17 countries, with 10 manufacturers accounting for approximately 57% of our apparel and accessories products, and five produced approximately 83% of our footwear products. Approximately 61% of our apparel and accessories products were manufactured in Jordan, Vietnam, China and Malaysia. As a result of our international manufacturing, we are subject to risks associated with doing business abroad, including:. • political or labor unrest, terrorism and economic instability resulting in the disruption of trade from foreign countries in which our products are manufactured;. • currency exchange fluctuations;. 13. Table of Contents. • the imposition of new laws and regulations, including those relating to labor conditions, quality and safety standards, imports, trade restrictions and restrictions on the transfer of funds, as well as rules and regulations regarding climate change;. • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;. • disruptions or delays in shipments; and. • changes in local economic conditions in countries where our manufacturers and suppliers are located.. These risks could negatively affect the ability of our manufacturers to produce or deliver our products or procure materials, hamper our ability to sell products in international markets and increase our cost of doing business generally. In the event that one or more of these factors make it undesirable or impractical for us to conduct business in a particular country, our business could be adversely affected.. In addition, many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs or other import limitations that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the United States and other markets. Any country in which our products are produced or sold may eliminate, adjust or impose new import limitations, duties, anti-dumping penalties or other charges or restrictions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. If we fail to successfully manage or realize expected results from acquisitions and other significant investments, it may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.. From time to time we may engage in acquisition opportunities we believe are complementary to our business and brand. Integrating acquisitions can also require significant efforts and resources, which could divert management attention from more profitable business operations.  Failing to successfully integrate acquired entities and businesses or to produce results consistent with financial models used in the analysis of our acquisitions could potentially result in an impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.. Our credit agreement contains financial covenants, and both our credit agreement and debt securities contain other restrictions on our actions, which could limit our operational flexibility or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition.. We have, from time to time, financed our liquidity needs in part from borrowings made under our credit facility and the issuance of debt securities. Our debt securities limit our ability to, subject to certain significant exceptions, incur secured debt and engage in sale leaseback transactions.  Our credit agreement contains negative covenants that, subject to significant exceptions limit our ability, among other things to incur additional indebtedness, make restricted payments, pledge assets as security, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions, undergo fundamental changes and enter into transactions with affiliates. In addition, we must maintain a certain leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio as defined in the credit agreement. In February 2018, we amended our credit agreement to increase our permitted leverage ratio during certain quarters in 2018.  Failure to comply with these operating or financial covenants could result from, among other things, changes in our results of operations or general economic conditions. These covenants may restrict our ability to engage in transactions that would otherwise be in our best interests. Failure to comply with any of the covenants under the credit agreement or our debt securities could result in a default. In addition, the credit agreement includes a cross default provision whereby an event of default under certain other debt obligations (including our debt securities) will be considered an event of default under the credit agreement. If an event of default occurs, the commitments of the lenders under the credit agreement may be terminated and the maturity of amounts owed may be accelerated. Our debt securities include a cross acceleration provision which provides that the acceleration of certain other debt obligations (including our credit agreement) will be considered an event of default under our debt securities and, subject to certain time and notice periods, give bondholders the right to accelerate our debt securities.. We may need to raise additional capital required to grow our business, and we may not be able to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all.. Growing and operating our business will require significant cash outlays and capital expenditures and commitments. We have utilized cash on hand and cash generated from operations, accessed our credit facility and issued debt securities as sources of liquidity.  If cash on hand and cash generated from operations are not sufficient to meet our cash requirements, we will need to seek additional capital, potentially through debt or equity financing, to fund our growth. Our ability to access the credit and capital markets in the future as a source of liquidity, and the borrowing costs associated with such financing, are dependent upon market conditions and our credit rating and. 14. Table of Contents. outlook. Our credit ratings have been downgraded previously, and we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain our current ratings, which could increase our cost of borrowing in the future. In addition, equity financing may be on terms that are dilutive or potentially dilutive to our stockholders, and the prices at which new investors would be willing to purchase our securities may be lower than the current price per share of our common stock. The holders of new securities may also have rights, preferences or privileges which are senior to those of existing holders of common stock. If new sources of financing are required, but are insufficient or unavailable, we will be required to modify our growth and operating plans based on available funding, if any, which would harm our ability to grow our business.. Our operating results are subject to seasonal and quarterly variations in our net revenues and income from operations, which could adversely affect the price of our publicly traded common stock.. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal and quarterly variations in our net revenues and income from operations. These variations are primarily related to increased sales volume of our products during the fall selling season, including our higher price cold weather products, along with a larger proportion of higher margin direct to consumer sales. The majority of our net revenues were generated during the last two quarters in each of 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.. Our quarterly results of operations may also fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other factors, including, among other things, the timing of marketing expenses and changes in our product mix. Variations in weather conditions may also have an adverse effect on our quarterly results of operations. For example, warmer than normal weather conditions throughout the fall or winter may reduce sales of our COLDGEAR® line, leaving us with excess inventory and operating results below our expectations.. As a result of these seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, we believe that comparisons of our operating results between different quarters within a single year are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of our future performance. Any seasonal or quarterly fluctuations that we report in the future may not match the expectations of market analysts and investors. This could cause the price of our publicly traded stock to fluctuate significantly.. Our financial results could be adversely impacted by currency exchange rate fluctuations.. We generated approximately 27% of our consolidated net revenues outside the United States. As our international business grows, our results of operations could be adversely impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Revenues and certain expenses in markets outside of the United States are recognized in local foreign currencies, and we are exposed to potential gains or losses from the translation of those amounts into U.S. dollars for consolidation into our financial statements. Similarly, we are exposed to gains and losses resulting from currency exchange rate fluctuations on transactions generated by our foreign subsidiaries in currencies other than their local currencies. In addition, the business of our independent manufacturers may also be disrupted by currency exchange rate fluctuations by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. As a result, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may adversely impact our results of operations.. The value of our brand and sales of our products could be diminished if we are associated with negative publicity.. Our business could be negatively impacted if publicity diminishes the appeal of our brand to consumers.  For example, while we require our suppliers, manufacturers and licensees of our products to operate their businesses in compliance with applicable laws and regulations as well as the social and other standards and policies we impose on them, including our code of conduct, we do not control their practices. A violation, or alleged violation of our policies, labor laws or other laws could interrupt or otherwise disrupt our sourcing or damage our brand image. Negative publicity regarding production methods, alleged practices or workplace or related conditions of any of our suppliers, manufacturers or licensees could adversely affect our reputation and sales and force us to locate alternative suppliers, manufacturers or licensees.. In addition, we have sponsorship contracts with a variety of athletes and feature those athletes in our advertising and marketing efforts, and many athletes and teams use our products, including those teams or leagues for which we are an official supplier. Actions taken by athletes, teams or leagues associated with our products could harm the reputations of those athletes, teams or leagues. These and other types of negative publicity, especially through social media which potentially accelerates and increases the scope of negative publicity, could negatively impact our brand image and result in diminished loyalty to our brand.  This could have a negative effect on our sales and results of operations.. 15. Table of Contents. Sponsorships and designations as an official supplier may become more expensive and this could impact the value of our brand image.. A key element of our marketing strategy has been to create a link in the consumer market between our products and professional and collegiate athletes. We have developed licensing agreements to be the official supplier of performance apparel and footwear to a variety of sports teams and leagues at the collegiate and professional level and sponsorship agreements with athletes. However, as competition in the performance apparel and footwear industry has increased, the costs associated with athlete sponsorships and official supplier licensing agreements have increased, including the costs associated with obtaining and retaining these sponsorships and agreements. If we are unable to maintain our current association with professional and collegiate athletes, teams and leagues, or to do so at a reasonable cost, we could lose the on-field authenticity associated with our products, and we may be required to modify and substantially increase our marketing investments. As a result, our brand image, net revenues, expenses and profitability could be materially adversely affected.. Our failure to comply with trade and other regulations could lead to investigations or actions by government regulators and negative publicity.. The labeling, distribution, importation, marketing and sale of our products are subject to extensive regulation by various federal agencies, including the Federal Trade Commission, Consumer Product Safety Commission and state attorneys general in the U.S., as well as by various other federal, state, provincial, local and international regulatory authorities in the locations in which our products are distributed or sold. If we fail to comply with those regulations, we could become subject to significant penalties or claims or be required to recall products, which could negatively impact our results of operations and disrupt our ability to conduct our business, as well as damage our brand image with consumers. In addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing regulations may result in significant unanticipated compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may impair the marketing of our products, resulting in significant loss of net revenues.. Our international operations are also subject to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and other anti-bribery laws applicable to our operations. Although we have policies and procedures to address compliance with the FCPA and similar laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, agents and other partners will not take actions in violations of our policies. Any such violation could subject us to sanctions or other penalties that could negatively affect our reputation, business and operating results.. If we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to deliver our products to the market could be adversely affected.. We rely on a limited number of distribution facilities for our product distribution. Our distribution facilities utilize computer controlled and automated equipment, which means the operations are complicated and may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, power interruptions or other system failures. In addition, because many of our products are distributed from a limited number of locations, our operations could also be interrupted by severe weather conditions, floods, fires or other natural disasters in these locations, as well as labor or other operational difficulties or interruptions. We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities, such as the long term loss of customers or an erosion of our brand image. In addition, our distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the shipping of product to and from our distribution facilities. If we encounter problems with our distribution facilities, our results of operations, as well as our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies could be materially adversely affected.. We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy or interruption of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business.. Our business relies on information technology. Our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and internal reports, and to ship products to customers and invoice them on a timely basis depends significantly on our enterprise resource planning, warehouse management, and other information systems. We also heavily rely on information systems to process financial and accounting information for financial reporting purposes.   Any of these information systems could fail or experience a service interruption for a number of reasons, including computer viruses, programming errors, hacking or other unlawful activities, disasters or our failure to properly maintain system redundancy or protect, repair, maintain or upgrade our systems. The failure of our information systems to operate effectively or to integrate with other systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, which could negatively impact our financial results. If we experienced any. 16. Table of Contents. significant disruption to our financial information systems that we are unable to mitigate, our ability to timely report our financial results could be impacted, which could negatively impact our stock price. We also communicate electronically throughout the world with our employees and with third parties, such as customers, suppliers, vendors and consumers. A service interruption or shutdown could have a materially adverse impact on our operating activities. Remediation and repair of any failure, problem or breach of our key information systems could require significant capital investments.. In addition, we interact with many of our consumers through both our e-commerce website and our mobile applications, and these systems face similar risk of interruption or attack. Consumers increasingly utilize these services to purchase our products and to engage with our Connected Fitness community. If we are unable to continue to provide consumers a user-friendly experience and evolve our platform to satisfy consumer preferences, the growth of our e-commerce business and our net revenues may be negatively impacted. The performance of our Connected Fitness business is dependent on reliable performance of its products, applications and services and the underlying technical infrastructure, which incorporate complex software. If this software contains errors, bugs or other vulnerabilities which impede or halt service, this could result in damage to our reputation and brand, loss of users or loss of revenue.. Data security or privacy breaches could damage our reputation, cause us to incur additional expense, expose us to litigation and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We collect sensitive and proprietary business information as well as personally identifiable information in connection with digital marketing, digital commerce, our in-store payment processing systems and our Connected Fitness business. In particular, in our Connected Fitness business we collect and store a variety of information regarding our users, and allow users to share their personal information with each other and with third parties. We also rely on third parties for the operation of certain of our e-commerce websites, and do not control these service providers.   Hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate large scale and complex automated attacks. Any breach of our data security or that of our service providers could result in an unauthorized release or transfer of customer, consumer, user or employee information, or the loss of valuable business data or cause a disruption in our business. These events could give rise to unwanted media attention, damage our reputation, damage our customer, consumer or user relationships and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. We may also be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against or respond to or alleviate problems caused by a security breach, which could negatively impact our results of operations.. We must also comply with increasingly complex regulatory standards throughout the world enacted to protect personal information and other data. Compliance with existing, proposed and forthcoming laws and regulations can be costly and could negatively impact our profitability. In addition, an  inability to maintain compliance with these regulatory standards could result in a violation of data privacy laws and regulations and subject us to litigation or other regulatory proceedings.  This could negatively impact our profitability, result in negative publicity and damage our brand image or cause the size of our Connected Fitness community to decline.. We are in the process of implementing a new operating and information system, which involves risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business.. We are in the process of implementing a global operating and financial reporting information technology system as part of a multi-year plan to integrate and upgrade our systems and processes, which began in 2015 and will continue in phases over the next several years. The first phase of this implementation became operational during 2017 in our North America, EMEA and Connected Fitness operations, and we are in the process of developing an implementation strategy and roll-out plan for our Asia-Pacific and Latin American regions. Implementation of new information systems involves risks and uncertainties. Any disruptions, delays, or deficiencies in the design, implementation  or application of these systems could result in increased costs, disruptions in our ability to effectively source, sell or ship our products, delays in the collection of payment from our customers or adversely affect our ability to timely report our financial results, all of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and profitability.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected in the future by a number of factors, including changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and regulations or their interpretations and application, the outcome of income tax audits in various jurisdictions around the world, and any repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for applicable withholding tax, U.S. state income taxes, or foreign exchange rate impacts.  Many of the countries in which we do business have or are expected to adopt changes to tax laws as result of the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting final. 17. Table of Contents. proposals from the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development and specific country anti-avoidance initiatives. We regularly assess all of these matters to determine the adequacy of our tax provision, which is subject to significant judgment.. The United States enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") on December 22, 2017, which had a significant impact to our provision for income taxes as of December 31, 2017.  The Tax Act includes a number of changes to existing U.S. tax laws that impact us, including the reduction of the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. The Tax Act also provides for a one-time transition tax on indefinitely reinvested foreign earnings and the acceleration of depreciation for certain assets, as well as prospective changes beginning in 2018, including the elimination of certain domestic deductions and credits, capitalization of research and development expenditures, and limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation and interest.  The Tax Act transitions U.S. international taxation from a worldwide system to a modified territorial system and includes base erosion prevention measures on non-U.S. earnings, which has the effect of subjecting certain earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to U.S. taxation.. The Tax Act requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required under U.S. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the Tax Act and significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. The U.S. Treasury Department, the Internal Revenue Service, and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. As we complete our analysis of the Tax Act, review all information, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance, we may make adjustments to provisional amounts that we have recorded, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Our financial results may be adversely affected if substantial investments in businesses and operations fail to produce expected returns.. From time to time, we may invest in business infrastructure, new businesses, and expansion of existing businesses, such as the ongoing expansion of our network of brand and factory house stores and our distribution facilities, the expansion of our corporate headquarters, investments to implement our global operating and financial reporting information technology system, or investments to support our digital strategy. These investments require substantial cash investments and management attention. We believe cost effective investments are essential to business growth and profitability. The failure of any significant investment to provide the returns or synergies we expect could adversely affect our financial results. Infrastructure investments may also divert funds from other potential business opportunities.. Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our senior management and other key employees.. Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our senior management and other key employees, particularly Kevin A. Plank, our founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of our senior management or other key employees could make it more difficult to successfully operate our business and achieve our business goals.. We also may be unable to retain existing management, product creation, innovation, sales, marketing, operational and other support personnel that are critical to our success, which could result in harm to key customer relationships, loss of key information, expertise or know-how and unanticipated recruitment and training costs.. If we are unable to attract and retain new team members, including senior management, we may not be able to achieve our business objectives.. Our growth has largely been the result of significant contributions by our current senior management, product design teams and other key employees. However, to be successful in continuing to profitably grow our business and manage our operations, we will need to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly talented management and other employees with a range of skills and experience. Competition for employees in our industry is intense and we have experienced difficulty from time to time in attracting the personnel necessary to support the growth of our business, and we may experience similar difficulties in the future. If we are unable to attract, assimilate and retain management and other employees with the necessary skills, we may not be able to grow or successfully operate our business and achieve our long term objectives.. A number of our fabrics and manufacturing technology are not patented and can be imitated by our competitors.. 18. Table of Contents. The intellectual property rights in the technology, fabrics and processes used to manufacture our products are generally owned or controlled by our suppliers and are generally not unique to us. Our ability to obtain patent protection for our products is limited and we currently own a limited number of fabric or process patents. As a result, our current and future competitors are able to manufacture and sell products with performance characteristics and fabrications similar to certain of our products. Because many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources than we do, they may be able to manufacture and sell products based on certain of our fabrics and manufacturing technology at lower prices than we can. If our competitors do sell similar products to ours at lower prices, our net revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected.. Our intellectual property rights could potentially conflict with the rights of others and we may be prevented from selling or providing some of our products.. Our success depends in large part on our brand image. We believe our registered and common law trademarks have significant value and are important to identifying and differentiating our products from those of our competitors and creating and sustaining demand for our products. In addition, patents are increasingly important with respect to our innovative products and new businesses and investments, including our digital business. From time to time, we have received or brought claims relating to intellectual property rights of others, and we expect such claims will continue or increase, particularly as we expand our business and the number of products we offer. Any such claim, regardless of its merit, could be expensive and time consuming to defend or prosecute. Successful infringement claims against us could result in significant monetary liability or prevent us from selling or providing some of our products. In addition, resolution of claims may require us to redesign our products, license rights belonging to third parties or cease using those rights altogether. Any of these events could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brand, weaken our competitive position and reduce our net revenues.. We currently rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade dress laws, patent laws, unfair competition laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. The steps taken by us to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent infringement of our trademarks and proprietary rights by others, including imitation of our products and misappropriation of our brand. In addition, intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States, and it may be more difficult for us to successfully challenge the use of our proprietary rights by other parties in these countries. If we fail to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, the value of our brand could be diminished and our competitive position may suffer.. From time to time, we discover unauthorized products in the marketplace that are either counterfeit reproductions of our products or unauthorized irregulars that do not meet our quality control standards. If we are unsuccessful in challenging a third party's products on the basis of trademark infringement, continued sales of their products could adversely impact our brand, result in the shift of consumer preferences away from our products and adversely affect our business.. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third parties. These licensees may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation.. We are subject to periodic claims, litigation and investigations that could result in unexpected expenses and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Given the size and extent of our global operations, we are involved in a variety of litigation, arbitration and other legal proceedings and subject to investigations, audits, inquiries and similar actions, including matters related to commercial disputes, intellectual property, employment, securities, class action and product liability, as well as trade, regulatory and other claims related to our business and our industry. These matters include those contained in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Legal proceedings in general, and securities and class action litigation and investigations in particular, can be expensive and disruptive.  Any of our legal proceedings could result in damages, fines or other penalties, divert financial and management resources and result in significant legal fees. We cannot predict the outcome of any particular proceeding, and the costs incurred in these matters can be substantial, regardless of the outcome.  An unfavorable outcome may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, any proceeding could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and our brand image.. 19. Table of Contents. The trading prices for our Class A and Class C common stock may differ and fluctuate from time to time.. The trading prices of our Class A and Class C common stock may differ and fluctuate from time to time in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors may include, among others, overall performance of the equity markets and the economy as a whole, variations in our quarterly results of operations or those of our competitors, our ability to meet our published guidance and securities analyst expectations, or recommendations by securities analysts. In addition, our non-voting Class C common stock has traded at a discount to our Class A common stock, and there can be no assurance that this will not continue.. Kevin Plank, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer controls the majority of the voting power of our common stock.. Our Class A common stock has one vote per share, our Class B common stock has 10 votes per share and our Class C common stock has no voting rights (except in limited circumstances). Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Kevin A. Plank, beneficially owns all outstanding shares of Class B common stock. As a result, Mr. Plank has the majority voting control and is able to direct the election of all of the members of our Board of Directors and other matters we submit to a vote of our stockholders. The Class B common stock automatically converts to Class A common stock when Mr. Plank beneficially owns less than 15.0% of the total number of shares of Class A and Class B common stock outstanding and in other limited circumstances. This concentration of voting control may have various effects including, but not limited to, delaying or preventing a change of control or allowing us to take action that the majority of our shareholders do not otherwise support. In addition, we utilize shares of our Class C common stock to fund employee equity incentive programs and may do so in connection with future stock-based acquisition transactions, which could prolong the duration of Mr. Plank's voting control."
