[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Many of the factors that affect UNIFI's business and operations involve risk and uncertainty. The factors described below are some of the risks that could materially negatively affect UNIFI's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. You should consider all such risks in evaluating UNIFI or making any investment decision involving UNIFI.. UNIFI faces intense competition from a number of domestic and foreign yarn producers and importers of foreign-sourced fabric, apparel and other textile products. Because UNIFI and the supply chains in which UNIFI conducts its business do not typically operate on the basis of long-term contracts with textile customers or brand partners, these competitive factors could cause UNIFI's customers or brand partners to shift rapidly to other producers.. UNIFI competes not only against domestic and foreign yarn producers, but also against importers of foreign-sourced fabric, apparel and other textile products into the United States and other countries in which UNIFI does business (particularly in Brazil with respect to commodity yarn products). The primary competitive factors in the textile industry include price, quality, product styling, performance attributes and differentiation, brand reputation, flexibility and location of production and finishing, delivery time and customer service. The needs of certain customers and brand partners and the characteristics of particular products determine the. 10. relative importance of these various factors. A large number of UNIFI's foreign competitors have significant competitive advantages that may include lower labor and raw material costs, production facilities in locations outside UNIFI's existing supply chain, government subsidies and favorable foreign currency exchange rates against the USD. If any of these advantages increase, or if new and/or larger competitors emerge in the future, or if UNIFI's brand reputation is detrimentally impacted, then UNIFI's products could become less competitive, and its sales and profits may decrease as a result. In particular, devaluation of the Chinese currency against the USD could result in UNIFI's products becoming less competitive from a pricing standpoint and/or could result in the regions covered by NAFTA and CAFTA-DR losing market share to Chinese imports, thereby adversely impacting UNIFI's sales and profits.  Also, while these foreign competitors have traditionally focused on commodity production, they are now increasingly focused on PVA products, where UNIFI has been able to generate higher margins. UNIFI may not be able to continue to compete effectively with foreign-made textile and apparel products, which would materially adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  Similarly, to maximize their own supply chain efficiency, customers and brand partners sometimes request that UNIFI's products be produced and sourced from specific geographic locations that are in close proximity to the customer's fabric mills or that have other desirable attributes from the customer's perspective.  These locations are sometimes situated outside the footprint of UNIFI's existing global supply chain. If UNIFI is unable to move production based on customer requests or other shifts in regional demand, we may lose sales and experience an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. A significant portion of our sales is dependent upon demand from a few large brand partners.. UNIFI's strategy involves the sale of products and solutions to other yarn manufacturers and knitters and weavers (UNIFI's direct customers) that produce yarn and/or fabric for brands and retailers in the apparel, hosiery, home furnishings, automotive, industrial and other end-use markets (UNIFI's indirect customers).  We refer to these indirect customers as \"brand partners.\"  Although we generally do not derive revenue directly from our brand partners, sales volumes to our direct customers are linked with demand from our brand partners because our direct sales generally form a part of our brand partner's supply chain.  A significant portion of our overall sales is tied to ongoing programs for a small number of brand partners.  Our future operating results depend on both the success of our largest brand partners and on our success in diversifying our products and our indirect customer base.  Because we typically do not operate on the basis of long-term contracts, our customers and brand partners can cease incorporating our products into their own with little notice to us and with little or no penalty.  The loss of a large brand partner, and the failure to add new customers to replace the corresponding lost sales, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Significant price volatility of UNIFI's raw materials and rising energy costs may result in increased production costs.  UNIFI attempts to pass such increases in production costs on to its customers through responsive price increases.  However, any such price increases are effective only after a time lag that may span one or more periods, during which UNIFI and its margins are negatively affected.. Petroleum-based chemicals and recycled plastic bottles comprise a significant portion of UNIFI's raw materials. The prices for these products and energy costs are volatile and dependent on global supply and demand dynamics, including geo-political risks.  While UNIFI enters into raw material supply agreements from time to time, these agreements typically provide index pricing based on quoted market prices. Therefore, supply agreements provide only limited protection against price volatility. UNIFI attempts to pass on to its customers increases in raw material costs but at times it cannot and, when it can, there is typically a time lag that adversely affects UNIFI and its margins during one or more periods.  Certain customers are subject to an index-based pricing model in which UNIFI's prices are adjusted based on the change in the cost of certain raw materials in the prior quarter.  Pricing adjustments for other customers must be negotiated independently.  In ordinary market conditions in which raw material price increases have stabilized and sales volumes are consistent with traditional levels, UNIFI has historically been successful in implementing price adjustments within one to two fiscal quarters of the raw material price increase for its index priced customers and within two fiscal quarters of the raw material price increase for its non-index priced customers.  UNIFI has lost in the past (and expects that it may lose in the future) customers to its competitors as a result of price increases. In addition, competitors may be able to obtain raw materials at a lower cost due to market regulations that favor local producers in certain foreign locations where UNIFI operates, and certain other market regulations that favor UNIFI over other producers may be amended or repealed. Additionally, inflation can have a long-term impact by increasing the costs of materials, labor and/or energy, any of which costs may adversely impact UNIFI's ability to maintain satisfactory margins. If UNIFI is not able to fully pass on such cost increases to customers in a timely manner (or if it loses a large number of customers to competitors as a result of price increases), the result could be material and adverse to its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Depending on the price volatility of petroleum-based inputs, recycled bottles and other raw materials, the price gap between virgin raw materials and recycled bottle flake could make virgin raw materials more cost-effective than recycled raw materials, which could result in an adverse effect on UNIFI's ability to sell its REPREVE® brand recycled products profitably.. UNIFI depends on limited sources for certain of its raw materials, and interruptions in supply could increase its costs of production, cause production inefficiencies or lead to a halt in production.. UNIFI depends on a limited number of third parties for certain raw material supplies, such as POY, Chip and recycled plastic bottles. Although alternative sources of raw materials exist, UNIFI may not be able to obtain adequate supplies of such materials on acceptable terms, or at all, from other sources. UNIFI is dependent on NAFTA, CAFTA-DR and Berry Amendment qualified suppliers of raw materials for the production of Compliant Yarns. These suppliers are also at risk with their raw material supply chains. Any significant disruption or curtailment in the supply of any of its raw materials could cause UNIFI to reduce or cease its production for an extended period, or require UNIFI to increase its pricing, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. 11. A disruption at one of our facilities could harm our business and result in significant losses, lead to a decline in sales and increase our costs and expenses.. Our operations and business could be disrupted by natural disasters, industrial accidents, power or water shortages, extreme weather conditions and other man-made disasters or catastrophic events.  We carry commercial property damage and business interruption insurance against various risks, with limits we deem adequate for reimbursement for damage to our fixed assets and resulting disruption of our operations.  However, the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, lead to a decline in sales and increase our costs and expenses.  Any disruptions from these events could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations and could also have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results to the extent losses are uninsured or exceed insurance recoveries and to the extent that such disruptions adversely impact our relationships with our customers.. UNIFI has significant foreign operations, and its consolidated results of operations and business may be adversely affected by the risks associated with doing business in foreign locations, including the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.. UNIFI has operations in Brazil, China, Colombia, El Salvador and Sri Lanka, and participates in a joint venture located in Israel.  In addition, to help service its customers, UNIFI from time to time engages with third-party independent contractors to provide sales and distribution, manufacturing and other operational and administrative support services in locations around the world. UNIFI serves customers throughout the Americas and Asia, as well as various countries in Europe. UNIFI's foreign operations are subject to certain political, tax, economic and other uncertainties not encountered by its domestic operations that can materially impact UNIFI's supply chains or other aspects of its foreign operations. The risks of international operations include trade barriers, duties, exchange controls, national and regional labor strikes, social and political unrest, general economic risks, compliance with a variety of foreign laws (including tax laws), the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems, taxes on distributions or deemed distributions to UNIFI or any of its U.S. subsidiaries, maintenance of minimum capital requirements, and import and export controls. UNIFI's consolidated results of operations and business could be adversely affected as a result of a significant adverse development with respect to any of these risks.. Through its foreign operations, UNIFI is also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates will impact period-to-period comparisons of UNIFI's reported results. Additionally, UNIFI operates in countries with foreign exchange controls. These controls may limit UNIFI's ability to transfer funds from its international operations and joint venture or otherwise to convert local currencies into USDs. These limitations could adversely affect UNIFI's ability to access cash from its foreign operations.. In addition, due to its foreign operations, a risk exists that UNIFI's employees, contractors or agents could engage in business practices prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations applicable to the Company, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the laws and regulations of other countries, such as the Brazilian Clean Companies Act.  UNIFI maintains policies prohibiting these practices, but it remains subject to the risk that one or more of its employees, contractors or agents, specifically ones based in or from countries where such practices are customary, will engage in business practices in violation of these laws and regulations.  Any such violations, even if in breach of UNIFI's policies, could adversely affect its business or financial performance.. UNIFI's future success will depend in part on its ability to protect and preserve its intellectual property rights, and UNIFI's inability to enforce these rights could cause it to lose sales, reduce any competitive advantage it has developed or otherwise harm its business.. UNIFI's future success depends in part on its ability to protect and preserve its rights in the trademarks and other intellectual property it owns or licenses, including its proprietary know-how, methods and processes. UNIFI relies on the trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of the United States and other countries, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, to protect its intellectual property rights. However, UNIFI may be unable to prevent third parties, employees or contractors from using its intellectual property without authorization, breaching nondisclosure or confidentiality agreements, or independently developing technology that is similar to UNIFI's. The use of UNIFI's intellectual property by others without authorization may cause it to lose sales, reduce any competitive advantage UNIFI has developed or otherwise harm its business.. The success of UNIFI's business is tied to the strength and reputation of its brands. If the reputation of one or more of our brands erodes significantly, it could have a material impact on our financial results.. UNIFI has invested heavily in branding and marketing initiatives, and certain of our brands - particularly our REPREVE® brand - have widespread recognition.  Our financial success is directly dependent on the success of our brands.  The success of a brand can suffer if our marketing plans or product initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand's image or its ability to attract consumers.  Our financial results could also be negatively impacted if one of our brands suffers substantial harm to its reputation due to a product recall, product-related litigation, the sale of counterfeit products or other circumstances that tarnish the qualities and values represented by our brands.  Part of our strategy also includes the license of our trademarks to brand partners, customers, independent contractors and other third parties.  For example, we license our REPREVE® trademarks to brand partners who feature this trademark on their marketing materials as part of a co-branded environmental sustainability product narrative.  Although we make concerted efforts to protect our brands through quality control mechanisms and contractual obligations imposed on our licensees, there is a risk that some licensees might not be in full compliance with those mechanisms and obligations.  If the reputation of one or more of our brands is significantly eroded, it could adversely affect our sales, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. 12. UNIFI has investments in less-than-100%-owned affiliates that it does not control, which subjects UNIFI to uncertainties about the operating performance and quality of financial reporting of these affiliates.. The most significant of these investments is UNIFI's 34% minority interest in PAL. While this investment is designed to provide industry diversity for UNIFI, UNIFI does not have majority voting control of PAL or the ability otherwise to control PAL's policies, management or affairs. The interests of persons who control PAL may differ from UNIFI's, and those persons may cause PAL to take actions that are not in UNIFI's best interest. Among other things, UNIFI's inability to control PAL may adversely affect its ability to receive distributions from PAL or to fully implement its business plan. The incurrence of debt or entry into other agreements by PAL may result in restrictions or prohibitions on PAL's ability to make distributions to UNIFI. Even where PAL is not restricted by contract or by law from making distributions, UNIFI may not be able to influence the timing or amount of such distributions. In addition, if the controlling investor in PAL fails to observe its commitments, PAL may not be able to operate according to its business plan, or UNIFI may need to increase its level of investment commitment. If any of these events were to occur, UNIFI's business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. UNIFI also relies on accurate financial reporting from PAL for preparation of UNIFI's quarterly and annual consolidated financial statements. Errors in the financial information reported by PAL could be material to UNIFI and may require us to restate past financial statements. Any such restatements could have a material adverse effect on UNIFI or the market price of our common stock.. PAL receives economic adjustment payments from the Commodity Credit Corporation under the Economic Adjustment Assistance to Users of Upland Cotton. The economic assistance received under this program must be used to acquire, construct, install, modernize, develop, convert or expand land, plant, buildings, equipment or machinery directly attributable to the purpose of manufacturing upland cotton into eligible cotton products in the United States.  Should PAL no longer meet the criteria to receive economic assistance under the program, or should the program be discontinued, PAL's business and profitability could be significantly impacted, which would adversely affect UNIFI.. UNIFI requires cash to service its indebtedness and to fund capital expenditures and strategic initiatives, and its ability to generate sufficient cash for those purposes depends on many factors beyond its control.. UNIFI's principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and borrowings under its credit facility. UNIFI's ability to make payments on its indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and strategic initiatives will depend on its ability to generate future cash flows from operations. This ability, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond UNIFI's control. The business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations, and future borrowings may not be available to UNIFI in amounts sufficient, to enable UNIFI to pay its indebtedness and to fund its other liquidity needs. Any such development would have a material adverse effect on UNIFI.. A decline in general economic or political conditions, and changes in consumer spending, could cause a decline in demand for textile products, including UNIFI's products.. UNIFI's products are used in the production of fabric primarily for the apparel, hosiery, home furnishings, automotive, industrial and other end-use markets. Demand for furniture and other durable goods is often affected significantly by economic conditions that have global or regional industry-wide consequences. Demand for a number of categories of apparel also tends to be tied to economic cycles and customer preferences that affect the textile industry in general. Demand for textile products, therefore, tends to vary with the business cycles of the United States and other economies, as well as changes in global trade flows, and economic and political conditions.  Additionally, prolonged economic downturns that negatively impact UNIFI's results of operations and cash flows could result in future material impairment charges to write-down the carrying value of certain assets, including amortizable intangible assets and equity affiliates.. Changes in consumer spending, customer preferences, fashion trends and end uses for UNIFI's products could weaken UNIFI's competitive position and cause UNIFI's products to become less competitive, and its sales and profits may decrease as a result.  Additionally, the end-consumer retail and apparel markets may continue to experience difficult conditions characterized by reduced retail traffic and growth in online sales channels, which may cause bankruptcies, store closures and other transformations for traditional retail enterprises, which could have an adverse effect on UNIFI's business and financial condition.. Historic trends indicate weakening performance in the nylon sector on a global basis. If the decline is significant in any one year or the cumulative decline over a number of years is significant, the impact could have a material adverse effect on UNIFI's business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Unfavorable changes in trade policies and/or violations of existing trade policies could weaken UNIFI's competitive position significantly and have a material adverse effect on its business.. A number of markets within the textile industry in which UNIFI sells its products, particularly the apparel, hosiery and home furnishings markets, are subject to intense foreign competition. Other markets within the textile industry in which UNIFI sells its products may in the future become subject to more intense foreign competition. There are currently a number of trade regulations and duties in place to protect the U.S. textile industry against competition from low-priced foreign producers, such as those in China and Vietnam.  Political- and policy-driven influences are subjecting international trade regulations to significant change, the details of which have not yet been fully established and the consequences of which are not yet fully understood. Future changes in such trade regulations or duties may make the price of UNIFI's products less attractive than the goods of its competitors or the finished products of a competitor in the supply chain, which could have a material adverse effect on UNIFI's business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  Such changes in U.S. import duties might also result in increased indirect costs on items. 13. imported to support UNIFI's domestic operations and/or countervailing or responsive changes applicable to exports of our products outside the United States.. According to industry experts and trade associations, there has been a significant amount of illegal transshipments of apparel products into the United States and into certain other countries in the NAFTA and CAFTA-DR regions in which UNIFI competes. Illegal transshipment involves circumventing duties by falsely claiming that textiles and apparel are products of a particular country of origin (or include yarn of a particular country of origin) to avoid paying higher duties or to receive benefits from regional free trade agreements, such as NAFTA and CAFTA-DR. If illegal transshipments are not monitored, and if enforcement is not effective to limit them, these shipments could have a material adverse effect on UNIFI's business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. In January 2017, the United States withdrew from the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement, an evolving trade agreement that included Vietnam, a major textile and apparel exporting country whose duty-free benefits under the agreement could have had an adverse effect on UNIFI's business in the long term. In May 2017, the Trump administration formally notified Congress of its intent to renegotiate NAFTA.  These negotiations appear to have been put on hold due to recent changes in the Mexican government and the upcoming U.S. mid-term elections.  The United States has a positive trade balance in the textile and apparel sector in NAFTA and UNIFI anticipates any modifications to the agreement in this sector will not significantly impact textile and apparel trade in the region.. In order to compete, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could harm our business and our results of operations.. In order to compete effectively, we must attract and retain qualified employees.  Our future operating results and success depend on keeping key personnel and management and also expanding our technical, sales and marketing, innovation and administrative support.  The competition for qualified personnel is intense, particularly as it relates to hourly personnel in the domestic communities in which our manufacturing facilities are located.  We cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, which could harm our business and results of operations.. Our business and operations could suffer in the event of cybersecurity breaches.. Attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems have become increasingly more sophisticated over time. These attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others. We seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. The theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business. To the extent that any cybersecurity breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers' or brand partners' confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. In addition, the devotion of additional resources to the security of our information technology systems in the future could significantly increase the cost of doing business or otherwise adversely impact our financial results."
