[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Operational Risk Factors. Our reduced operational footprint, unplanned equipment outages and other unforeseen disruptions may adversely impact our results of operations.. Over the past three years, U. S. Steel has adjusted its operating configuration in response to challenging market conditions as a result of global overcapacity and unfair trade practices by indefinitely, permanently and temporarily idling production at certain facilities. Due to our reduced operational footprint, the Company may not be able to respond in an efficient manner when restarting certain of our temporarily idled facilities to fully realize the benefits from changing market conditions that are favorable to integrated steel producers.. Our steel production depends on the operation of critical structures and pieces of equipment, such as blast furnaces, casters, hot strip mills and various structures and operations that support them. While we are implementing asset revitalization and a reliability centered maintenance initiative focusing on proactive maintenance of key machinery and equipment at our production facilities, we may experience prolonged periods of reduced production and increased maintenance and repair costs due to equipment failures at our facilities or those of our key suppliers.. It is also possible that operations may be disrupted due to other unforeseen circumstances such as power outages, explosions, fires, floods, accidents and severe weather conditions. We are also exposed to similar risks involving major customers and suppliers such as force majeure events of raw materials suppliers that have occurred and may occur in the future. Availability of raw materials and delivery of products to customers could be affected by logistical disruptions, such as shortages of barges, ocean vessels, rail cars or trucks, or unavailability of rail lines or of locks on the Great Lakes or other bodies of water. To the extent that lost production could not be compensated for at unaffected facilities and depending on the length of the outage, our sales and our unit production costs could be adversely affected.. U. S. Steel continues to incur certain costs when production capacity is idled, increased costs to resume production at idled facilities, or costs to idle facilities.. Our decisions concerning which facilities to operate and at what levels are made based upon our customers' orders for products as well as the capabilities and cost performance of our locations. During periods of depressed market conditions, we may concentrate production operations at several plant locations and not operate others in response to customer demand, and as a result we will incur idle facility costs.. When we restart idled facilities, we incur certain costs to replenish raw material inventories, prepare the previously idled facilities for operation, perform the required repair and maintenance activities and prepare employees to return to work safely and resume production responsibilities.  The amount of any such costs can be material, depending on a variety of factors, such as the period of time during which the facilities remained idle, necessary repairs and available employees, and is difficult to project.. U. S. Steel has been and continues to be adversely affected by worldwide overcapacity and high levels of imports, which may negatively affect steel prices and demand levels, reducing profitability.. An increase in global capacity and new or expanded production capacity in the United States, China and other countries in recent years has resulted in capacity significantly in excess of global demand, as well as in the Company's primary markets in North America and Europe.. Worldwide overcapacity continues to result in high levels of dumped and subsidized steel products in the markets we serve. Domestic and international trade laws provide mechanisms to address the injury caused by such imports to domestic industries. While in some cases, U. S. Steel is successful in obtaining relief under U.S. and international trade laws, in other circumstances, relief has been denied. When received, such relief is generally subject to annual automatic or discretionary review, which can result in rescission or reduction. There can be no assurance that any relief will be obtained or continued in the future or that such relief will adequately combat the surge in imports. There is also a risk that international bodies such as the World Trade Organization or other judicial bodies in the United States or the EU may change their interpretations of their respective trade laws in ways that are unfavorable to U. S. Steel.. Faced with overcapacity in various markets, we will continue to evaluate potential strategic and organizational opportunities, which may include exiting lines of business and the sale of certain assets, temporary shutdowns or closures of facilities.. 41. Table of Contents. The steel industry is highly cyclical, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Steel consumption is highly cyclical and generally follows economic and industrial conditions both worldwide and in regional markets.  This volatility makes it difficult to balance the procurement of raw materials and energy with global steel prices, our steel production and customer product demand.  U. S. Steel has implemented strategic initiatives to produce more stable and consistent results, even during periods of economic and market downturns, but this may not be enough to mitigate the effect that the volatility inherent in the steel industry has on our results of operations.. We face increased competition from alternative materials and risks concerning innovation, new technologies, products and increasing customer requirements.. As a result of increasingly stringent regulatory requirements, designers, engineers and industrial manufacturers, especially those in the automotive industry, are increasing their use of lighter weight and alternative materials, such as aluminum, composites, plastics, and carbon fiber. Use of such materials could reduce the demand for steel products, which may reduce our profitability and cash flow.. Additionally, technologies such as direct iron reduction, EAF production, oxygen-coal injection and experimental technologies such as molten oxide electrolysis and hydrogen flash smelting may be more cost effective than our current production methods. However, we may not have sufficient capital to invest in such technologies and may incur difficulties adapting and fully integrating these technologies into our existing operations. We may also encounter production restrictions, or not realize the cost benefit from such capital intensive technology adaptations to our current production processes. Customers, such as those in the automotive industry, are demanding stronger and lighter products. Tubular customers are increasingly requesting pipe producers to supply connections and other ancillary parts as well as inspection and other services. We may not be successful in meeting these technological challenges.. Limited availability of raw materials and energy may constrain operating levels and reduce profit margins.. U. S. Steel and other steel producers have periodically been faced with problems in obtaining sufficient raw materials and energy in a timely manner due to delays, defaults, severe weather conditions, or force majeure events by suppliers, shortages or transportation problems (such as shortages of barges, ore vessels, rail cars or trucks, or disruption of rail lines, waterways, or natural gas transmission lines), resulting in production curtailments. As a result, we may be exposed to risks concerning pricing and availability of raw materials from third parties.  USSE purchases substantially all of its iron ore and coking coal requirements from outside sources. USSE is also dependent upon availability of natural gas produced in Russia and transported through Ukraine. Any curtailments or escalated costs may further reduce profit margins.. Changes in the global economic environment may lead to declines in the production levels of our customers.. We sell to the automotive, service center, converter, energy and appliance and construction-related industries.  Some of these industries are cyclical and exhibit a great deal of sensitivity to general economic conditions.  Low demand from customers in these key industries may adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Our Flat-Rolled and Tubular segments may be particularly impacted by unfavorable market conditions in the oil and gas industries.  Declines in oil prices, and the correlating reduction in drilling activity, as well as high levels of inventory in the supply chain, may reduce demand for tubular products and could have adverse impacts on our results of operations and cash flows.. We may be adversely impacted by volatility in prices for raw materials, energy, and steel.. U. S. Steel may be faced with having agreed to purchase raw materials and energy at prices that are above the then current market price or in greater volumes than required. Additionally, any future decreases in iron ore, scrap, natural gas and oil prices may place downward pressure on steel prices.  If steel prices decline, our profit margins on market-based indexed contracts and spot business will be reduced.. 42. Table of Contents. Our operations expose us to uncertainties and risks in the countries in which we operate, which may negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. Our U.S. operations are subject to economic conditions, including credit and capital market conditions, and political factors in the United States, which if changed could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, inflation, increased regulation, limitations on exports of energy and raw materials, and trade remedies. Actions taken by the U.S. government could affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. USSE is subject to economic conditions and political factors associated with the EU, Slovakia and neighboring countries, and the euro currency. Changes in any of these economic conditions or political factors could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, government instability, civil unrest, increased regulation and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures.. Our collective bargaining agreements with the USW may limit certain business flexibility.  These agreements expire on September 1, 2018, which creates a potential risk of labor disruption.. Our master collective bargaining agreements with the USW contain provisions that may limit us from pursuing some North American transactions involving steel or steel-related assets without the consent of the USW, grant the USW a right to bid on any sale of one or more facilities covered by the 2015 Labor Agreements, and require us to make a minimum level of capital expenditures (subject to approval of the Board of Directors) to maintain the competitive status of our domestic facilities. These agreements may also restrict our ability to operate our facilities at less than full capacity and replace the product which could have been produced in such facilities with foreign products (excluding the United States or Canada), and further require that the ratio of non-represented employees to USW represented employees at our domestic facilities not exceed one to four.  These provisions may limit our ability to acquire or sell steel or steel related assets at favorable prices, increase our operating costs and reduce our margins and otherwise adversely affect our competitiveness in the marketplace.  These master agreements expire on September 1, 2018 and to the extent that good faith negotiations for successor agreements would reach legal impasse after this date, there exists a potential risk of labor disruption at covered plants.. A failure of our information technology infrastructure and cybersecurity threats may adversely affect our business operations.. Increasingly sophisticated attacks against rapidly evolving computer technologies pose a risk to the security of our systems, networks and data. Despite efforts to protect confidential business information, personal data of employees and contractors, and the control systems of manufacturing plants, U. S. Steel systems and those of our third-party service providers may be subject to system breaches. System breaches can lead to disclosure, modification and destruction of proprietary business data, personally identifiable information (PII), other sensitive information, defective products, production downtime and damage to production assets with a resulting impact to our reputation, competitiveness and operations.  Of special note is our risk when implementing new capabilities.  As we implement new systems, many times both new and old systems run in parallel until all processes have successfully transferred to the new system and thorough testing has been performed.. Historically, U. S. Steel has experienced cybersecurity attacks, including a high profile breach of our information technology systems in which proprietary information was compromised. On May 19, 2014, the U.S. Department of Justice unsealed an indictment against certain individuals in connection with cyber crimes committed against the Company and other entities. We cooperated with the U.S. government on this matter and have implemented enhancements and improvements to safeguard our information technology enterprise against future attacks. Some of these enhancements include planning for and taking initial steps to implement a risk management framework based on security standards written by the National Institute of Standards and Technology. Other enhancements include implementing additional security monitoring of our systems by advanced technologies. However, there is no assurance the Company's remediation efforts will be successful in safeguarding information from future attacks, which likely will increase in frequency and sophistication. Based on information known to date, the Company is currently unable to determine the materiality, if any, of these events.. We depend on third parties for transportation services, and increases in costs or the availability of transportation may adversely affect our business and operations.. 43. Table of Contents. Our business depends on the transportation of a large number of products, both domestically and internationally. We rely primarily on third parties for transportation of the products we manufacture as well as delivery of our raw materials.  Any increase in the cost of the transportation of our raw materials or products, as a result of increases in fuel or labor costs, higher demand for logistics services, consolidation in the transportation industry or otherwise, may adversely affect our results of operations as we may not be able to pass such cost increases on to our customers.. If any of these providers were to fail to deliver raw materials to us in a timely manner, we may be unable to manufacture and deliver our products in response to customer demand. In addition, if any of these third parties were to cease operations or cease doing business with us, we may be unable to replace them at a reasonable cost.. In addition, such failure of a third-party transportation provider could harm our reputation, negatively affect our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. Benefits from our stockholder value creation strategy and asset revitalization program may be limited or may not be fully realized.. U. S. Steel initiated a stockholder value creation strategy pursuant to which we focus on strengthening our balance sheet and cash flow generation. We continue to work on a series of initiatives that we believe will enable us to add value, right size the Company, and improve our performance across our core business processes, including commercial, supply chain, manufacturing, procurement, innovation, and operational and functional support.  Additionally, in 2017 we implemented an asset revitalization program, which covers investments in our existing assets, and involves investments beyond routine capital and maintenance spending.  These asset revitalization projects are expected to deliver both operational and commercial benefits, with most of the benefits coming from operational improvement. Business conditions, our ability to implement such initiatives, and factors beyond our control may limit the benefits associated with certain identified projects and limit the economic benefits of our stockholder value creation strategy or asset revitalization program.. We participate in joint ventures, which may not be successful.. We participate in a number of joint ventures and we may enter into additional joint ventures or other similar arrangements in the future. Our joint venture partners, as well as any future partners, may have interests that are different from ours which may result in conflicting views as to the conduct of the business of the joint venture. In the event that we have a disagreement with a joint venture partner as to the resolution of a particular issue, or as to the management or conduct of the business of the joint venture in general, we may not be able to resolve such disagreement in our favor. In addition, our joint venture partners may, as a result of financial or other difficulties or because of other reasons, be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under the joint venture, such as contributing capital to expansion or maintenance projects or approving dividends or other distributions or payments to us. Any significant downturn or deterioration in the business, financial condition or results of operations of a joint venture could adversely affect our results of operations in a particular period. There can be no assurance that our joint ventures will be beneficial to us.. Financial Risk Factors. Our business requires substantial expenditures for debt service obligations, capital investments, operating leases and maintenance that we may be unable to fund.. While we have refinanced the near-term maturities of our long-term debt, we have approximately $1.2 billion of debt maturing in 2020 and 2021 (see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).  If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, or issue additional debt or equity.  We may not be able to take such actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all.  Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results or operations.. Our ability to service or refinance our debt or fund investments and capital expenditures required to maintain or expand our business operations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control.  We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to satisfy our liquidity needs.  In addition, the limitations under our Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, such. 44. Table of Contents. as insufficient collateral or not being able to meet the fixed charge coverage ratio, may limit our availability to draw upon this facility. See the Liquidity section in \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis\" for further details.. We have significant retiree health care, retiree life insurance and pension plan costs, which may negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows.. We maintain retiree health care and life insurance and defined benefit pension plans covering many of our domestic employees and former employees upon their retirement. These benefit plans have significant liabilities that are not fully funded, which will require additional cash funding in future years.  Minimum contributions to domestic qualified pension plans (other than contributions to the Steelworkers Pension Trust (SPT) described below) are regulated under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) and the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA).. The level of cash funding for our defined benefit pension plans in future years depends upon various factors, including voluntary contributions that we may make, future pension plan asset performance, actual interest rates under the law, and the impacts of business acquisitions or divestitures, union negotiated benefit changes and future government regulations, many of which are not within our control.  In addition, assets held by the trusts for our pension plan and our trust for retiree health care and life insurance benefits are subject to the risks, uncertainties and variability of the financial markets.   See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis\" and Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of assumptions and further information associated with these benefit plans.. U. S. Steel contributes to a domestic multiemployer defined benefit pension plan, the SPT, for USW-represented employees formerly employed by National Steel and represented employees hired after May 2003.  We have legal requirements for future funding of this plan should the SPT become significantly underfunded or we decide to withdraw from the plan. Either of these scenarios may negatively impact our future cash flows. The 2015 Labor Agreements require a contribution rate of $2.65 per hour for most steelworker employees. Collectively bargained company contributions to the plan could increase as a result of future changes agreed to by the Company and the USW.. Product liability claims may have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Events such as well failures, line pipe leaks, blowouts, bursts, fires and product recalls could result in claims that our products or services were defective and caused death, personal injury, property damage or environmental pollution. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate, available to protect us in the event of a claim, or its coverage may be limited, canceled or otherwise terminated, or the amount of our insurance may be less than the related impact on our enterprise value after a loss.. Rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings, which would make it more difficult for us to raise capital and would increase our financial costs.. Any downgrades in our credit ratings may make raising capital more difficult, may increase the cost and adversely affect the terms of future borrowings, may adversely affect the terms under which we purchase goods and services and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities.. We are subject to foreign currency risks, which may negatively impact our profitability and cash flows.. The financial condition and results of operations of USSE are reported in euros and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in our financial statements. The appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the euro negatively affects our Consolidated Results of Operations.. In addition, international cash requirements have been and in the future may be funded by intercompany loans, creating intercompany monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than the functional currencies of the entities involved, which can have a non-cash impact on income when they are remeasured at the end of each period.. Financial regulatory frameworks introduced by U.S. and EU regulators may limit our financial flexibility or increase our costs.. The Commodity Future Trading Commission's Dodd Frank and the EU's EMIR regulatory frameworks can limit the Company's ability to hedge interest rate, foreign exchange (FX), or commodity pricing exposures, which could expose us to increased economic risk.  These frameworks may introduce additional compliance costs or liquidity requirements.. 45. Table of Contents. Some counterparties may cease hedging as a result of increased regulatory cost burdens, which in turn may reduce U. S. Steel's ability to hedge its interest rate, FX, or commodity exposures.. We may be subject to legal proceedings or investigations, the resolution of which could negatively affect our profitability and cash flows in a particular period.. We may be involved at any given time in various litigation matters, including administrative and regulatory proceedings, governmental investigations, environmental matters, and commercial disputes.  Our profitability and cash flows in a particular period could be negatively affected by an adverse ruling in any legal proceeding or investigation that may be pending against us or filed against us in the future.  While we believe that we have taken appropriate actions to mitigate and reduce these risks, due to the nature of our operations, these risks will continue to exist and additional legal proceedings or investigations may arise from time to time.. Regulatory Risk Factors. Compliance with existing and new environmental regulations, environmental permitting and approval requirements may result in delays or other adverse impacts on planned projects, our results of operations and cash flows.. Steel producers in the United States, along with their customers and suppliers, are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Steel producers in the EU are subject to similar laws.  These laws continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with such laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision.  Compliance with environmental laws and regulations, such as the Clean Air Act, governing GHG and sulfur dioxide emissions, could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs.  In addition, the integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions that create carbon dioxide.  Accordingly, we are subject to regulations adopted by the EPA, the EU and various state agencies regulating GHG emissions.  Compliance with current or future regulations could entail substantial costs for emission based systems, and could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows.. Construction and operation of new production facilities and modifications to existing facilities may require environmental permits and approvals from the appropriate regulatory agencies.  There can be no assurance that future approvals, licenses and permits will be granted or that we will be able to maintain and renew the approvals, licenses and permits we currently hold. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, compliance with the environmental permitting and approval requirements may be costly and time consuming and could result in delays or other adverse impacts on planned projects, our results of operations and cash flows.. We have significant environmental remediation costs that may negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows.. Some of U. S. Steel's current and former facilities were in operation before 1900.  Hazardous materials associated with those facilities may have been released at current or former operating sites or delivered to sites operated by third parties.. U. S. Steel is involved in numerous remediation projects at currently operating facilities, facilities that have been closed or sold to unrelated parties and other sites where material generated by U. S. Steel was deposited. In addition, there are numerous other former operating or disposal sites that could become the subject of remediation, which may negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows.. Our operations are subject to complex regulatory and compliance frameworks.. Complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, including but not limited to U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, regulations related to import-export controls, the Office of Foreign Assets Control sanctions program, antiboycott provisions, and changes in transportation and logistics regulations may increase our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and expose the Company and its employees to elevated risk. The Company's subsidiaries and joint ventures face similar risks.  Although we have implemented policies and processes designed to comply with these laws and regulations, failure by our employees, contractors, or agents to. 46. Table of Contents. comply with these laws and regulations can result in possible administrative, civil, or criminal liability, as well as reputational harm to the Company and its employees.. The IRS may disallow all or part of a worthless stock loss and bad debt deduction taken in 2013.. U. S. Steel made an election effective December 31, 2013 to liquidate for U.S. income tax purposes a foreign subsidiary that holds most of the Company's international operations.  The tax liquidation allowed the Company to claim a worthless stock loss and bad debt deduction in its 2013 U.S. income tax return, resulting in a net income tax benefit in 2013 of $419 million.  The worthless stock loss and bad debt deduction are subject to audit and possible adjustment by the IRS, which could result in the reversal of all or part of the income tax benefit. In 2015, the IRS began its audit of the worthless stock loss and bad debt deduction taken in 2013. We expect resolution in a future period. While we believe we have adequate legal and factual support for the tax position taken, the IRS could reject or reduce the amount of the income tax benefit related to the worthless stock loss and bad debt deduction. If this occurs, U. S. Steel would incur additional current tax expense, which could result in additional income tax payments.. Changes to global data privacy laws and cross-border transfer requirements could adversely affect our business and operations.. Our business depends on the transfer of data between our affiliated entities, to and from our business partners, and with third-party service providers, which may be subject to global data privacy laws and cross-border transfer restrictions. While U. S. Steel takes steps to comply with these legal requirements, the volatility and changes to the applicability of those laws, as well as evolving standards and judicial and regulatory interpretations of such laws, may impact U. S. Steel's ability to effectively transfer data across borders in support of our business operations and lead to possible administrative, civil, or criminal liability, as well as reputational harm to the Company and its employees. For example, the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which comes into effect in May 2018, creates a range of new compliance obligations for subject companies and increases financial penalties for non-compliance. The costs of compliance with the GDPR and the potential for fines and penalties in the event of a breach of the GDPR may have an adverse effect on our business and operations."
