[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. This section discusses factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. If any of the events described below occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected and our stock price could decline.. We provide these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties applicable to our business. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Forward-Looking Statements.\". We depend heavily on our principal customers and our success is heavily dependent on our principal customers' ability to grow their business.. Whole Foods Market accounted for approximately 37% of our net sales in fiscal 2018. We serve as the primary distributor of natural, organic and specialty non-perishable products, and also distribute certain specialty protein, cheese, deli items and products from health, beauty and supplement categories to Whole Foods Market in all of its regions in the United States under the terms of our distribution agreement which expires on September 28, 2025. Our ability to maintain a close, mutually beneficial relationship with Whole Foods Market, which was acquired by Amazon.com, Inc. in August 2017, is an important element to our continued growth.. The loss or cancellation of business from Whole Foods Market, including from increased self distribution to its own facilities, closures of its stores, reductions in the amount of products that Whole Foods Market sells to its customers, or our failure to comply with the terms of our distribution agreement with Whole Foods Market could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Similarly, if Whole Foods Market is not able to grow its business, including as a result of a reduction in the level of discretionary spending by its customers or competition from other retailers or if Whole Foods Market diverts purchases from us beyond minimum amounts it is required to purchase under our distribution agreement, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, given the growth acceleration we have experienced in fiscal 2018, if Whole Foods Market were to only purchase the minimum purchase amounts, it would negatively impact our financials results.. In addition to our dependence on Whole Foods Market, we are also dependent upon sales to our supermarket customers. Net sales to these customers accounted for approximately 28% of our total net sales in fiscal 2018.  To the extent that customers in this group make decisions to utilize alternative sources of products, whether through other distributors or through self distribution, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. Our business is a low margin business and our profit margins may decrease due to consolidation in the grocery industry and our focus on sales to the supermarkets channel.. The grocery distribution industry generally is characterized by relatively high volume of sales with relatively low profit margins. The continuing consolidation of retailers in the natural products industry and the growth of supernatural chains may reduce our profit margins in the future as more customers qualify for greater volume discounts, and we experience pricing pressures from suppliers and retailers. Sales to customers within our supernatural and supermarkets channels generate a lower gross margin than do sales to our independents channel customers. Many of these customers, including our largest customer, have agreements with us that include volume discounts. As the amounts these customers purchase from us increase, the price that they pay for the products they purchase is reduced, putting downward pressure on our gross margins on these sales. To compensate for these lower gross margins, we must increase the amount of products we sell or reduce the expenses we incur to service these customers. If we are unable to reduce our expenses as a percentage of net sales, including our expenses related to servicing this lower gross margin business, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted.. We may have difficulty managing our growth.. The growth in the size of our business and operations has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management. Our future growth may be limited by strong growth by certain of our largest customers or our inability to retain existing customers, make acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired entities or significant new customers, implement information systems initiatives, acquire or timely construct new distribution centers, expand our existing distribution centers, or adequately manage our personnel. Our future growth is limited in part by the size and location of our distribution centers. As we near maximum utilization of a given facility or maximize our processing capacity, operations may be constrained and inefficiencies have been and may be created, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations unless the facility is expanded, volume is shifted to another facility or additional processing capacity is added. Conversely, if we add additional facilities, expand existing operations or facilities, or fail to retain existing business, excess capacity may be created. Any excess capacity. 8. Table of Contents. may also create inefficiencies and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, including as a result of incurring additional operating costs for these facilities before demand for products to be supplied from these facilities rises to a level sufficient to cover these additional costs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully expand our existing distribution centers or open new distribution centers in new or existing markets if needed to accommodate or facilitate growth. Even if we are able to expand our distribution network, our ability to compete effectively and to manage future growth, if any, will depend on our ability to continue to implement and improve operational, financial and management information systems, including our warehouse management systems, on a timely basis and to expand, train, motivate and manage our work force. We cannot assure you that our existing personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support the future growth of our operations. Our inability to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our customers generally are not obligated to continue purchasing products from us and larger customers that do have multiyear contracts with us may terminate these contracts early in certain situations or choose not to renew or extend the contract at its expiration.. Many of our customers buy from us under purchase orders, and we generally do not have written agreements with or long-term commitments from these customers for the purchase of products. We cannot assure you that these customers will maintain or increase their sales volumes or orders for the products supplied by us or that we will be able to maintain or add to our existing customer base. Decreases in our volumes or orders for products supplied by us for these customers with whom we do not have a long-term contract may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may have contracts with certain of our customers (as is the case with many of our conventional supermarket customers and our supernatural chain customer) that obligate the customer to buy products from us for a particular period of time.  Even in this case, the contracts may not require the customer to purchase a minimum amount of products from us or the contracts may afford the customer better pricing in the event that the volume of the customer's purchases exceeds certain levels.  If these customers were to terminate these contracts prior to their scheduled termination, or if we or the customer elected not to renew or extend the term of the contract at its expiration at historical purchase levels, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, including additional operational expenses to transition out of the business or to adjust our staffing levels to account for the reduction in net sales.. Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations.. Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period due to:. • demand for our products, including fluctuations as a result of calendar year-end holidays;. • changes in our operating expenses, including fuel and insurance expenses;. • management's ability to execute our business and growth strategies;. • changes in customer preferences, including levels of enthusiasm for health, fitness and environmental issues;. • public perception of the benefits of natural and organic products when compared to similar conventional products;. • fluctuation of natural product prices due to competitive pressures;. • the addition or loss of significant customers;. • personnel changes;. • general economic conditions, including inflation;. • supply shortages, including a lack of an adequate supply of high-quality livestock or agricultural products due to poor growing conditions, water shortages, natural disasters or otherwise;. • volatility in prices of high-quality livestock or agricultural products resulting from poor growing conditions, water shortages, weather, natural disasters or otherwise;. • contractual adjustments, disputes, or modifications with our suppliers or customers;. • shortage of qualified labor which could potentially increase labor costs, reduce profitability or decrease our ability to effectively serve customers; and. • future acquisitions, particularly in periods immediately following the consummation of such acquisition transactions while the operations of the acquired businesses are being integrated into our operations.. Due to the foregoing factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not necessarily be meaningful and that such comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance.. 9. Table of Contents. We have significant competition from a variety of sources.. We operate in competitive markets and our future success will be largely dependent on our ability to provide quality products and services at competitive prices. Bidding for contracts or arrangements with customers, particularly within the supernatural and supermarkets channels, is highly competitive and we may market our services to a particular customer over a long period of time before we are invited to bid. Our competition comes from a variety of sources, including other distributors of natural products as well as specialty grocery and mass market grocery distributors and retail customers that have their own distribution channels. Mass market grocery distributors in recent years have increased their emphasis on natural and organic products and are now competing more directly with us. In addition, many supermarket chains have increased self-distribution of particular items that we sell or have increased their purchases of particular items that we sell directly from suppliers. New competitors are also entering our markets as barriers to entry for new competitors are relatively low. For instance, more natural and organic products are being sold in convenience stores and other mass market retailers than was the case a few years ago and many of these customers are being serviced by conventional distributors or are self-distributing. Some of the mass market grocery distributors with whom we compete may have been in business longer than we have, may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have and may be better established in their markets. We also face indirect competition as a result of the fact that our customers with physical locations face competition from online retailers and distributors that seek to sell certain of the type of products we sell to our customers directly to consumers. We cannot assure you that our current or potential competitors will not provide products or services comparable or superior to those provided by us or adapt more quickly than we do to evolving industry trends or changing market requirements. It is also possible that alliances among competitors may develop and that competitors may rapidly acquire significant market share or that certain of our customers will increase distribution to their own retail facilities. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins, lost business and loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against current and future competitors.. We may not realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions, including, in particular, our proposed acquisition of  SUPERVALU.. We cannot assure you that our prior acquisitions or our proposed acquisition of SUPERVALU or any future acquisitions will enhance our financial performance. Our ability to achieve the expected benefits of these acquisitions will depend on, among other things, our ability to effectively translate our business strategies into a new set of products, our ability to retain and assimilate the acquired businesses' employees, our ability to retain customers and suppliers on terms similar to those in place with the acquired businesses, our ability to expand the products we offer in many of our markets to include the products distributed by these businesses, our ability to expand into new markets to include markets of the acquired business, the adequacy of our implementation plans, our ability to maintain our financial and internal controls and systems as we expand our operations, the ability of our management to oversee and operate effectively the combined operations and our ability to achieve desired operating efficiencies and sales goals. The integration of the businesses that we acquired might also cause us to incur unforeseen costs, which would lower our future earnings and would prevent us from realizing the expected benefits of these acquisitions. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy and could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results including, ultimately, a reduction in our stock price.. Our investment in information technology may not result in the anticipated benefits.. In our attempt to reduce operating expenses and increase operating efficiencies, we have invested in the development and implementation of new information technology. We are in the process of rolling out a national warehouse management and procurement system to convert our existing facilities into a single warehouse management and supply chain platform and have completed conversions at fifteen of our facilities. In light of the proposed acquisition of SUPERVALU, we are reevaluating our warehouse management system strategy. However, we currently plan to remain focused on the automation of our new or expanded distribution centers that are at different stages of construction. We may not be able to implement these technological changes in the time frame that we have planned and delays in implementation could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the costs to make these changes may exceed our estimates and will exceed the benefits during the early stages of implementation. Even if we are able to implement the changes in accordance with our current plans, and within our current cost estimates, we may not be able to achieve the expected efficiencies and cost savings from this investment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, as we implement information technology enhancements, disruptions in our business may be created (including disruption with our customers) which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our business strategy of increasing our sales of fresh, perishable items, which we accelerated with our acquisitions of Tony's, Global Organic and Nor-Cal, may not produce the results that we expect.. 10. Table of Contents. A key element of our current growth strategy is to increase the amount of fresh, perishable products that we distribute.  We believe that the ability to distribute these products that are typically found in the perimeter of our customers' stores, in addition to the products we have historically distributed, will differentiate us from our competitors and increase demand for our products.  We accelerated this strategy with our acquisitions of Tony's, Global Organic and Nor-Cal.  If we are unable to grow this portion of our business and manage that growth effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. Failure by us to develop and operate a reliable technology platform could negatively impact our business.. Our ability to decrease costs and increase profits, as well as our ability to serve customers most effectively, depends on the reliability of our technology platform. We use software and other technology systems, among other things, to generate and select orders, to load and route trucks and to monitor and manage our business on a day-to-day basis. Failure to have adequate computer systems across the enterprise and any disruption to these computer systems could adversely impact our customer service, decrease the volume of our business and result in increased costs negatively affecting our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We have experienced losses due to the uncollectability of accounts receivable in the past and could experience increases in such losses in the future if our customers are unable to timely pay their debts to us.. Certain of our customers have from time to time experienced bankruptcy, insolvency and/or an inability to pay their debts to us as they come due. If our customers suffer significant financial difficulty, they may be unable to pay their debts to us timely or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. It is possible that customers may reject their contractual obligations to us under bankruptcy laws or otherwise. Significant customer bankruptcies could further adversely affect our revenues and increase our operating expenses by requiring larger provisions for bad debt. In addition, even when our contracts with these customers are not rejected, if customers are unable to meet their obligations on a timely basis, it could adversely affect our ability to collect receivables. Further, we may have to negotiate significant discounts and/or extended financing terms with these customers in such a situation, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. During periods of economic weakness, small to medium-sized businesses, like many of our independents channel customers, may be impacted more severely and more quickly than larger businesses. Similarly, these smaller businesses may be more likely to be more severely impacted by events outside of their control, like significant weather events. Consequently, the ability of such businesses to repay their obligations to us may deteriorate, and in some cases this deterioration may occur quickly, which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our acquisition strategy may adversely affect our business.. A portion of our past growth has been achieved through acquisitions of, or mergers with, other distributors of natural, organic and specialty products. We also continually evaluate opportunities to acquire other companies. We believe that there are risks related to acquiring companies, including an inability to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate such potential acquisitions. To the extent that our future growth includes acquisitions, we cannot assure you that we will not overpay for acquisitions, lose key employees of acquired companies, or fail to achieve potential synergies or expansion into new markets as a result of our acquisitions. Therefore, future acquisitions, if any, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, particularly in periods immediately following the consummation of those transactions while the operations of the acquired business are being integrated with our operations. Achieving the benefits of acquisitions depends on timely, efficient and successful execution of a number of post-acquisition events, including, among other things:. • maintaining the customer and supplier base;. • optimizing delivery routes;. • coordinating administrative, distribution and finance functions; and. • integrating management information systems and personnel.. The integration process could divert the attention of management. Any difficulties or problems encountered in the transition process could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In particular, the integration process may temporarily redirect resources previously focused on reducing product cost and operating expenses, resulting in lower gross profits in relation to sales. In addition, the process of combining companies could cause the interruption of, or a loss of momentum and operating profits in, the activities of the respective businesses, which could have an adverse effect on their combined operations.. In connection with acquisitions of businesses in the future, if any, we may decide to consolidate the operations of any acquired businesses with our existing operations or make other changes with respect to the acquired businesses, which could result in special charges or other expenses. Our results of operations also may be adversely affected by expenses we incur in making acquisitions, by amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets with definite lives and by additional depreciation and amortization attributable to acquired assets. Any of the businesses we acquire may also have liabilities or adverse operating issues, including. 11. Table of Contents. some that we fail to discover before the acquisition, and our indemnity for such liabilities may also be limited. Additionally, our ability to make any future acquisitions may depend upon obtaining additional financing. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all. To the extent that we seek to acquire other businesses in exchange for our common stock, fluctuations in our stock price could have a material adverse effect on our ability to complete acquisitions.. Impairment charges for goodwill or other long-lived assets could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. We monitor the recoverability of our long-lived assets, such as buildings and equipment, and evaluate their carrying value for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be fully recoverable. We annually review goodwill to determine if impairment has occurred. Additionally, interim reviews are performed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value and fair value of the long-lived assets or the carrying value and fair value of the reporting unit, in the period the determination is made. The testing of long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment requires us to make estimates that are subject to significant assumptions about our future revenue, profitability, cash flows, fair value of assets and liabilities, weighted average cost of capital, as well as other assumptions. Changes in these estimates, or changes in actual performance compared with these estimates, may affect the fair value of long-lived assets or reporting unit, which may result in an impairment charge.. We cannot accurately predict the amount or timing of any impairment of assets. Should the value of long-lived assets or goodwill become impaired, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Our operations are sensitive to economic downturns.. The grocery industry is sensitive to national and regional economic conditions and the demand for the products that we distribute, particularly our specialty products, may be adversely affected from time to time by economic downturns that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Future economic conditions such as employment levels, business conditions, housing starts, interest rates, inflation rates, energy and fuel costs and tax rates could reduce consumer spending or change consumer purchasing habits. Among these changes could be a reduction in the number of natural and organic products that consumers purchase where there are non-organic, which we refer to as conventional, alternatives, given that many natural and organic products, and particularly natural and organic foods, often have higher retail prices than do their conventional counterparts.. Our business may be sensitive to inflationary and deflationary pressures.. Many of our sales are at prices that are based on our product cost plus a percentage markup. As a result, volatile food costs have a direct impact upon our profitability. Prolonged periods of product cost inflation and periods of rapidly increasing inflation may have a negative impact on our profit margins and results of operations to the extent that we are unable to pass on all or a portion of such product cost increases to our customers. In addition, product cost inflation may negatively impact the consumer discretionary spending trends of our customers' customers, which could adversely affect our sales. Conversely, because many of our sales are at prices that are based upon product cost plus a percentage markup, our profit levels may be negatively impacted during periods of product cost deflation even though our gross profit as a percentage of net sales may remain relatively constant. To compensate for lower gross margins, we, in turn, must reduce expenses that we incur to service our customers. If we are unable to reduce our expenses as a percentage of net sales, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted.. Product liability claims could have an adverse effect on our business.. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if the products we manufacture or sell cause injury or illness. In addition, meat, seafood, cheese, poultry and other products that we distribute could be subject to recall because they are, or are alleged to be, contaminated, spoiled or inappropriately labeled. Our meat and poultry products may be subject to contamination by disease-producing organisms, or pathogens, such as Listeria monocytogenes, Salmonella and generic E.coli. These pathogens are generally found in the environment, and as a result, there is a risk that they, as a result of food processing, could be present in the meat and poultry products we distribute. These pathogens can also be introduced as a result of improper handling at the consumer level. These risks may be controlled, although not eliminated, by adherence to good manufacturing practices and finished product testing. We have little, if any, control over proper handling before we receive the product or once the product has been shipped to our customers. We may be subject to liability, which could be substantial, because of actual or alleged contamination in products manufactured or sold by us, including products sold by companies before we acquired them. In addition, if we were to manufacture or distribute foods that are or are perceived to be contaminated, any resulting product recalls could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We have, and the companies we have acquired have had, liability insurance with respect to product liability claims. This insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost or at all, and may not be adequate to cover product liability claims against us or against companies we have acquired. We generally. 12. Table of Contents. seek contractual indemnification from manufacturers, but any such indemnification is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party. If we or any of our acquired companies do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability claims and costs associated with product recalls, including a loss of business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in consumer eating habits could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Changes in consumer eating habits away from natural, organic or specialty products could reduce demand for our products. Consumer eating habits could be affected by a number of factors, including changes in attitudes regarding benefits of natural and organic products when compared to similar conventional products or new information regarding the health effects of consuming certain foods. Although there is a growing consumer preference for sustainable, organic and locally grown products, there can be no assurance that such trend will continue. Changing consumer eating habits also occur due to generational shifts. Millennials, the largest demographic group in the U.S. in terms of spend, seek new and different as well as more ethnic menu options and menu innovation, however there can be no assurance that such trend will continue. If consumer eating habits change significantly, we may be required to modify or discontinue sales of certain items in our product portfolio, and we may experience higher costs associated with the implementation of those changes. Additionally if we are not able to effectively respond to changes in consumer perceptions or adapt our product offerings to trends in eating habits, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer.. Increased fuel costs may adversely affect our results of operations.. Increased fuel costs may have a negative impact on our results of operations. The high cost of diesel fuel can increase the price we pay for products as well as the costs we incur to deliver products to our customers. These factors, in turn, may negatively impact our net sales, margins, operating expenses and operating results. To manage this risk, we have in the past periodically entered, and may in the future periodically enter, into heating oil derivative contracts to hedge a portion of our projected diesel fuel requirements. Heating crude oil prices have a highly correlated relationship to diesel fuel prices, making these derivatives effective in offsetting changes in the cost of diesel fuel. We are not party to any commodity swap agreements and, as a result, our exposure to volatility in the price of diesel fuel has increased relative to our exposure to volatility in prior periods in which we had outstanding heating oil derivative contracts. We do not enter into fuel hedge contracts for speculative purposes. We have in the past, and may in the future, periodically enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements at fixed prices. As of July 28, 2018, we had no forward diesel fuel commitments. We also maintain a fuel surcharge program which allows us to pass some of our higher fuel costs through to our customers. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to be able to pass a comparable proportion or any of our higher fuel costs to our customers in the future, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Disruption of our distribution network or to the operations of our customers could adversely affect our business.. Damage or disruption to our distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, pandemic, strikes, the financial and/or operational instability of key suppliers, or other reasons could impair our ability to distribute our products. To the extent that we are unable, or it is not financially feasible, to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to manage effectively such events if they occur, there could be an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. In addition, such disruptions may reduce the number of consumers who visit our customers' facilities in any affected areas. Furthermore, such disruption may interrupt or impede access to our customers' facilities, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. The cost of the capital available to us and limitations on our ability to access additional capital may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Historically, acquisitions and capital expenditures have been a large component of our growth. We anticipate that acquisitions and capital expenditures will continue to be important to our growth in the future. As a result, increases in the cost of capital available to us, which could result from us not being in compliance with fixed charge coverage ratio covenants or other restrictive covenants under our debt agreements, including our Existing ABL Loan Agreement, our Existing Term Loan Agreement (as defined below) and the debt agreements we expect to enter into in connection with the SUPERVALU acquisition, or our inability to access additional capital to finance acquisitions and capital expenditures through borrowed funds could restrict our ability to grow our business organically or through acquisitions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. In addition, our profit margins depend on strategic investment buying initiatives, such as discounted bulk purchases, which require spending significant amounts of working capital up-front to purchase products that we then sell over a multi-month time period. Therefore, increases in the cost of capital available to us or our inability to access additional capital through borrowed funds could. 13. Table of Contents. restrict our ability to engage in strategic investment buying initiatives, which could reduce our profit margins and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We expect to substantially increase our level of debt in connection with the proposed acquisition of SUPERVALU which will make us more sensitive to the effects of economic downturns and could adversely affect our business.. In order to finance the proposed acquisition of SUPERVALU, we expect to incur up to $3.50 billion of additional indebtedness, including indebtedness to be incurred to refinance SUPERVALU's existing debt. This increase in our leverage, and any further increase, could have important potential consequences, including, but not limited to:. • increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility to plan for and respond to, general adverse economic and industry conditions and changes in our business and the competitive environment;. • requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases or other corporate purposes;. • increasing our vulnerability to a downgrade of our credit rating, which could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity and access to capital markets;. • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;. • increasing our exposure to the risk of increased interest rates insofar as current and future borrowings are subject to variable rates of interest;. • making it more difficult for us to repay, refinance or satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt;. • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds in the future and increasing the cost of any such borrowing;. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with less leverage or better access to capital resources, and. • imposing restrictive covenants on our operations, which, if not complied with, could result in an event of default, which in turn, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the applicable debt, and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies.. There is no assurance that we will generate cash flow from operations or that future debt or equity financings will be available to us to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund other needs. As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flow or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our debt agreements contain restrictive covenants that may limit our operating flexibility.. Our debt agreements, including our Existing ABL Loan Agreement and our Existing Term Loan Agreement (as defined below) contain, and the debt agreements we expect to enter into in connection with the SUPERVALU acquisition will contain, financial covenants and other restrictions that limit our operating flexibility, limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business. These restrictions may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted.. In addition, our Existing ABL Loan Agreement and Existing Term Loan Agreement each require, and the debt agreements we expect to enter into in connection with the SUPERVALU acquisition will require, that we comply with various financial tests and impose certain restrictions on us, including among other things, restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, create liens on assets, make loans or investments or pay dividends. Failure to comply with these covenants could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Conditions beyond our control can interrupt our supplies and alter our product costs.. The majority of our suppliers are based in the United States and Canada, but we also source products from suppliers throughout Europe, Asia, Central America, South America, Africa and Australia. For the most part, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to provide products to us. Although our purchasing volume can provide benefits when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the products needed by us in the quantities and at the prices requested. We are also subject to delays caused by interruption in production and increases in product costs based on conditions outside of our control. These conditions include work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, short-term weather conditions or more prolonged climate change, crop conditions, product recalls, water shortages, transportation interruptions, unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, competitive demands, raw material shortages and natural disasters or other catastrophic events (including, but not limited to food-borne illnesses). As demand for natural and organic products has increased and the distribution channels into which these products are sold have expanded, we have continued to experience higher levels of. 14. Table of Contents. manufacturer out-of-stocks. These shortages have caused us to incur higher operating expenses due to the cost of moving products around and between our distribution facilities in order to keep our service level high. We cannot be sure when this trend will end or whether it will recur during future years.  As the consumer demand for natural and organic products has increased, certain retailers and other producers have entered the market and attempted to buy certain raw materials directly, limiting their availability to be used in certain supplier products.  Further, increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products, including the specialty protein and cheese products sold by Tony's. For example, until the last two years, weather patterns had resulted in lower than normal levels of precipitation in key agricultural states such as California, impacting the price of water and corresponding prices of food products grown in states facing drought conditions. The impact of sustained droughts is uncertain and could result in volatile input costs. Input costs could increase at any point in time for a large portion of the products that we sell for a prolonged period. Conversely, in years where rainfall levels are abundant product costs, particularly in our perishable and produce businesses, may decline and the results of this product cost deflation could negatively impact our results of operations. Our inability to obtain adequate products as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations to customers, and customers may turn to other distributors. In that case, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Changes in relationships with our suppliers may adversely affect our profitability.. We cooperatively engage in a variety of promotional programs with our suppliers. We manage these programs to maintain or improve our margins and increase sales. A reduction or change in promotional spending by our suppliers (including as a result of increased demand for natural and organic products) could have a significant impact on our profitability. We depend heavily on our ability to purchase merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. We have no assurances of continued supply, pricing, or access to new products and any supplier could at any time change the terms upon which it sells to us or discontinue selling to us.. We are subject to significant governmental regulation.. Our business is highly regulated at the federal, state and local levels and our products and distribution operations require various licenses, permits and approvals. In particular:. • the products that we distribute in the United States are subject to inspection by the FDA;. • our warehouse and distribution centers are subject to inspection by the USDA and state health authorities; and. • the United States Department of Transportation and the United States Federal Highway Administration regulate our United States trucking operations.. Our Canadian operations are similarly subject to extensive regulation, including the English and French dual labeling requirements applicable to products that we distribute in Canada. The loss or revocation of any existing licenses, permits or approvals or the failure to obtain any additional licenses, permits or approvals in new jurisdictions where we intend to do business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, as a distributor and manufacturer of natural, organic, and specialty foods, we are subject to increasing governmental scrutiny of and public awareness regarding food safety and the sale, packaging and marketing of natural and organic products. Compliance with these laws may impose a significant burden on our operations. Additionally, concern over climate change, including the impact of global warming, has led to significant United States and international legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. Increased regulation regarding greenhouse gas emissions, especially diesel engine emissions, could impose substantial costs on us. These costs include an increase in the cost of the fuel and other energy we purchase and capital costs associated with updating or replacing our vehicles prematurely. Until the timing, scope and extent of such regulation becomes known, we cannot predict its effect on our results of operations. It is reasonably possible, however, that it could impose material costs on us which we may be unable to pass on to our customers.. The failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, including those referred to above and in Item 1. Business - Government Regulation, could result in, among other things, administrative, civil, or criminal penalties or fines, mandatory or voluntary product recalls, warning or other letters, cease and desist orders against operations that are not in compliance, closure of facilities or operations, the loss, revocation, or modification of any existing licenses, permits, registrations, or approvals, or the failure to obtain additional licenses, permits, registrations, or approvals in new jurisdictions where we intend to do business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. These laws and regulations may change in the future and we may incur material costs in our efforts to comply with current or future laws and regulations or due to any required product recalls.. In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or encounter disagreements with respect to our contracts subject to governmental regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, prohibitions on exporting, seizures, or debarments from contracting with the U.S. or. 15. Table of Contents. Canadian governments.  The cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance, including debarments, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  In addition, governmental units may make changes in the regulatory frameworks within which we operate that may require either the corporation as a whole or individual businesses to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations.. A cybersecurity incident and other technology disruptions could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers.. We use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations.  We also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our employees, suppliers, business partners and our customers.  Such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information.  Our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers' and suppliers' personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the Company and its business partners.  Further, as we pursue our strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, we are also expanding and improving our information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk.  If we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks.  Additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective.  The theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We face risks related to labor relations.. As of July 28, 2018, approximately 7.3% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements which expire between March 2019 and March 2022. See \"Item 1. Business - Employees\" for further detail. If we are not able to renew these agreements or are required to make significant changes to these agreements, our relationship with these employees may become fractured, work stoppages could occur or we may incur additional expenses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  We have in the past been the focus of union-organizing efforts, and we believe it is likely that we will be the focus of similar efforts in the future.. As we increase our employee base and broaden our distribution operations to new geographic markets, our increased visibility could result in increased or expanded union-organizing efforts. In the event we are unable to negotiate contract renewals with our union associates, we could be subject to work stoppages. In that event, it would be necessary for us to hire replacement workers to continue to meet our obligations to our customers. The costs to hire replacement workers and employ effective security measures could negatively impact the profitability of any affected facility. Depending on the length of time that we are required to employ replacement workers and security measures these costs could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. In January 2018, the National Labor Relations Board certified the election results of our driver employees in Gilroy, California to be represented by the Teamsters union. We are in the process of negotiating a collective bargaining agreement with these employees. The terms of this agreement could cause our expenses at this facility to increase, negatively impacting the results of operations at this facility.. We may fail to establish sufficient insurance reserves and adequately estimate for future workers' compensation and automobile liabilities.. We are primarily self-insured for workers' compensation and general and automobile liability insurance. We believe that our workers' compensation and automobile insurance coverage is customary for businesses of our size and type. However, there are types of losses we may incur that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not commercially reasonable to insure. These losses, should they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the cost of workers' compensation insurance and automobile insurance fluctuates based upon our historical trends, market conditions and availability.. Any projection of losses concerning workers' compensation and automobile insurance is subject to a considerable degree of variability. Among the causes of this variability are unpredictable external factors affecting litigation trends, benefit level changes and claim settlement patterns. If actual losses incurred are greater than those anticipated, our reserves may be insufficient and additional costs could be recorded in our consolidated financial statements. If we suffer a substantial loss that is not covered by. 16. Table of Contents. our self-insurance reserves, the loss and attendant expenses could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have purchased stop loss coverage from third parties, which limits our exposure above the amounts we have self-insured.. Adverse judgments or settlements resulting from legal proceedings in which we may be involved in the normal course of our business could reduce our profits or limit our ability to operate our business.. In the normal course of our business, we are involved in various legal proceedings. The outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. If any of these proceedings were to be determined adversely to us or a settlement involving a payment of a material sum of money were to occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or ability to operate our business. Additionally, we could become the subject of future claims by third parties, including our employees, our investors, or regulators. Any significant adverse judgments or settlements would reduce our profits and could limit our ability to operate our business. Further, we may incur costs related to claims for which we have appropriate third-party indemnity, but such third parties fail to fulfill their contractual obligations."
