[1] "Item  1A.    Risk Factors. Our business, results of operations and financial condition are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. In connection with any investment decision with respect to our securities, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as. 7. Table of Contents. the other information contained in this report and our other filings with the SEC. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Should any of these risks materialize, our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects could be negatively impacted, which in turn could affect the trading value of our securities.. Our business is cyclical in nature. An economic slowdown or a decrease in general economic activity could cause weakness in our end markets and have adverse effects on our revenues and operating results.. Our general rental equipment and trench, power and pump equipment are used in connection with private non-residential construction and industrial activities, which are cyclical in nature. Our industry experienced a decline in construction and industrial activity as a result of the economic downturn that commenced in the latter part of 2008 and continued through 2010. The weakness in our end markets led to a decrease in the demand for our equipment and in the rates we realized. Such decreases adversely affected our operating results by causing our revenues to decline and, because certain of our costs are fixed, our operating margins to be reduced. A worsening of economic conditions, in particular with respect to North American construction and industrial activities, could cause weakness in our end markets and adversely affect our revenues and operating results.. The following factors, among others, may cause weakness in our end markets, either temporarily or long-term:. • a decrease in expected levels of infrastructure spending;. • a lack of availability of credit;. • an overcapacity of fleet in the equipment rental industry;. • a decrease in the level of exploration, development, production activity and capital spending by oil and natural gas companies;. • an increase in the cost of construction materials;. • an increase in interest rates;. • adverse weather conditions, which may temporarily affect a particular region; or. • terrorism or hostilities involving the United States or Canada.. Our significant indebtedness exposes us to various risks.. At December 31, 2017, our total indebtedness was $9.4 billion. Our significant indebtedness could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition in a number of ways by, among other things:. • increasing our vulnerability to, and limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, adverse economic, industry or competitive developments;. • making it more difficult to pay or refinance our debts as they become due during periods of adverse economic, financial market or industry conditions;. • requiring us to devote a substantial portion of our cash flow to debt service, reducing the funds available for other purposes, including funding working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, execution of our growth strategy and other general corporate purposes, or otherwise constraining our financial flexibility;. • restricting our ability to move operating cash flows to Holdings. URNA's payment capacity is restricted under the covenants in our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility (\"ABL facility\") and the indentures governing its outstanding indebtedness;. • affecting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes, particularly since substantially all of our tangible assets are subject to security interests relating to existing indebtedness;. • decreasing our profitability or cash flow;. • causing us to be less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and to react to changes in market or industry conditions;. • causing us to be disadvantaged compared to competitors with less debt and lower debt service requirements;. • resulting in a downgrade in our credit rating or the credit ratings of any of the indebtedness of our subsidiaries, which could increase the cost of further borrowings;. • requiring our debt to become due and payable upon a change in control; and. 8. Table of Contents. • limiting our ability to borrow additional monies in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes.. A portion of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates that are linked to changing market interest rates. As a result, an increase in market interest rates would increase our interest expense and our debt service obligations. At December 31, 2017, we had $2.4 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. Our variable rate indebtedness currently represents 25 percent of our total indebtedness. See Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for additional information related to interest rate risk.. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.. We depend on cash on hand and cash flows from operations to make scheduled debt payments. To a significant extent, our ability to do so is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to repay our indebtedness when it becomes due and to meet our other cash needs. If we are unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations, we will have to adopt an alternative strategy that may include:. • reducing or delaying capital expenditures;. • limiting our growth;. • seeking additional capital;. • selling assets; or. • restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness.. Even if we adopt an alternative strategy, the strategy may not be successful and we may continue to be unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations.. We may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, if at all. Our inability to refinance our indebtedness could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ongoing results of operations.. Our ability to refinance indebtedness will depend in part on our operating and financial performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. In addition, prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing could increase our interest expense. A refinancing of our indebtedness could also require us to comply with more onerous covenants and further restrict our business operations. Our inability to refinance our indebtedness or to do so upon attractive terms could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and make us vulnerable to adverse industry and general economic conditions.. We may be able to incur substantially more debt and take other actions that could diminish our ability to make payments on our indebtedness when due, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our current level of indebtedness.. Despite our indebtedness level, we may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness in the future. We are not fully restricted under the terms of the indentures or agreements governing our current indebtedness from incurring additional debt, securing existing or future debt, recapitalizing our debt or taking a number of other actions, any of which could diminish our ability to make payments on our indebtedness when due and further exacerbate the risks associated with our current level of indebtedness. If new debt is added to our or any of our existing and future subsidiaries' current debt, the related risks that we now face could intensify.. If we are unable to satisfy the financial and other covenants in certain of our debt agreements, our lenders could elect to terminate the agreements and require us to repay the outstanding borrowings, or we could face other substantial costs.. The only financial maintenance covenant that currently exists under our ABL facility is the fixed charge coverage ratio. Subject to certain limited exceptions specified in the ABL facility, the fixed charge coverage ratio covenant under the ABL facility will only apply in the future if specified availability under the ABL facility falls below 10 percent of the maximum revolver amount under the ABL facility. When certain conditions are met, cash and cash equivalents and borrowing base collateral in excess of the ABL facility size may be included when calculating specified availability under the ABL facility. As of December 31, 2017, specified availability under the ABL facility exceeded the required threshold and, as a result, this financial maintenance covenant was inapplicable. Under our accounts receivable securitization facility, we are required, among other things, to maintain certain financial tests relating to: (i) the default ratio, (ii) the delinquency ratio, (iii) the dilution ratio. 9. Table of Contents. and (iv) days sales outstanding. The accounts receivable securitization facility also requires us to comply with the fixed charge coverage ratio under the ABL facility, to the extent the ratio is applicable under the ABL facility. If we are unable to satisfy these or any of the other relevant covenants, the lenders could elect to terminate the ABL facility and/or the accounts receivable securitization facility and require us to repay outstanding borrowings. In such event, unless we are able to refinance the indebtedness coming due and replace the ABL facility, accounts receivable securitization facility and/or the other agreements governing our debt, we would likely not have sufficient liquidity for our business needs and would be forced to adopt an alternative strategy as described above. Even if we adopt an alternative strategy, the strategy may not be successful and we may not have sufficient liquidity to service our debt and fund our operations.. Restrictive covenants in certain of the agreements and instruments governing our indebtedness may adversely affect our financial and operational flexibility.. In addition to financial covenants, various other covenants in the ABL facility, accounts receivable securitization facility and the other agreements governing our debt impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our restricted subsidiaries. Such covenants include, among other things, limitations on: (i) liens; (ii) sale-leaseback transactions; (iii) indebtedness; (iv) mergers, consolidations and acquisitions; (v) sales, transfers and other dispositions of assets; (vi) loans and other investments; (vii) dividends and other distributions, stock repurchases and redemptions and other restricted payments; (viii) dividends, other payments and other matters affecting subsidiaries; (ix) transactions with affiliates; and (x) issuances of preferred stock of certain subsidiaries. Future debt agreements we enter into may include similar provisions.. These restrictions may also make more difficult or discourage a takeover of us, whether favored or opposed by our management and/or our Board of Directors.. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and any material deviations from our forecasts could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants or alternative sources of financing, or to reduce expenditures. We cannot guarantee that such waivers, amendments or alternative financing could be obtained or, if obtained, would be on terms acceptable to us.. A breach of any of the covenants or restrictions contained in these agreements could result in an event of default. Such a default could allow our debt holders to accelerate repayment of the related debt, as well as any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies, and/or to declare all borrowings outstanding under these agreements to be due and payable. If our debt is accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay such debt.. The amount of borrowings permitted under our ABL facility may fluctuate significantly, which may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial position.. The amount of borrowings permitted at any time under our ABL facility is limited to a periodic borrowing base valuation of the collateral thereunder. As a result, our access to credit under our ABL facility is potentially subject to significant fluctuations depending on the value of the borrowing base of eligible assets as of any measurement date, as well as certain discretionary rights of the agent in respect of the calculation of such borrowing base value. The inability to borrow under our ABL facility may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial position.. We rely on available borrowings under the ABL facility and the accounts receivable securitization facility for cash to operate our business, which subjects us to market and counterparty risk, some of which is beyond our control.. In addition to cash we generate from our business, our principal existing sources of cash are borrowings available under the ABL facility and the accounts receivable securitization facility. If our access to such financing was unavailable or reduced, or if such financing were to become significantly more expensive for any reason, we may not be able to fund daily operations, which would cause material harm to our business or could affect our ability to operate our business as a going concern. In addition, if certain of our lenders experience difficulties that render them unable to fund future draws on the facilities, we may not be able to access all or a portion of these funds, which could have similar adverse consequences.. Our growth strategies may be unsuccessful if we are unable to identify and complete future acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses or assets.. We have historically achieved a significant portion of our growth through acquisitions and we will continue to consider potential acquisitions on a selective basis. From time-to-time we have also approached, or have been approached by, other public companies or large privately-held companies to explore consolidation opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities in the future or that we will be able to consummate any such transactions on terms and conditions acceptable to us.. In addition, it is possible that we will not realize the expected benefits from any completed acquisition, or that our existing operations will be adversely affected as a result of acquisitions. Acquisitions entail certain risks, including:. 10. Table of Contents. • unrecorded liabilities of acquired companies and unidentified issues that we fail to discover during our due diligence investigations or that are not subject to indemnification or reimbursement by the seller;. • greater than expected expenses such as the need to obtain additional debt or equity financing for any transaction;. • unfavorable accounting treatment and unexpected increases in taxes;. • adverse effects on our ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees and suppliers;. • inherent risk associated with entering a geographic area or line of business in which we have no or limited experience;. • difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of an acquired company within our existing operations, including the consolidation of corporate and administrative functions;. • difficulty in integrating marketing, information technology and other systems;. • difficulty in conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures;. • difficulty in identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets;. • loss of key employees of the acquired company;. • operating inefficiencies that have a negative impact on profitability;. • impairment of goodwill or other acquisition-related intangible assets;. • failure to achieve anticipated synergies or receiving an inadequate return of capital; and. • strains on management and other personnel time and resources to evaluate, negotiate and integrate acquisitions.. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with any past or future acquisition could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions, cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our business generally. In addition, if we are unable to successfully integrate our acquisitions with our existing business, we may not obtain the advantages that the acquisitions were intended to create, which may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, our ability to introduce new services and products and the market price of our stock.. We would expect to pay for any future acquisitions using cash, capital stock, notes and/or assumption of indebtedness. To the extent that our existing sources of cash are not sufficient, we would expect to need additional debt or equity financing, which involves its own risks, such as the dilutive effect on shares held by our stockholders if we financed acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, or the risks associated with debt incurrence.. We have also spent resources and efforts, apart from acquisitions, in attempting to grow and enhance our rental business over the past few years. These efforts place strains on our management and other personnel time and resources, and require timely and continued investment in facilities, personnel and financial and management systems and controls. We may not be successful in implementing all of the processes that are necessary to support any of our growth initiatives, which could result in our expenses increasing disproportionately to our incremental revenues, causing our operating margins and profitability to be adversely affected.. Our operating results may fluctuate, which could affect the trading value of our securities.. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter or over the longer term due to a number of factors, which could adversely affect the trading value of our securities. These factors, in addition to general economic conditions and the factors discussed above under \"Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\", include, but are not limited to:. • the seasonal rental patterns of our customers, with rental activity tending to be lower in the winter;. • changes in the size of our rental fleet and/or in the rate at which we sell our used equipment;. • an overcapacity of fleet in the equipment rental industry;. • changes in private non-residential construction spending or government funding for infrastructure and other construction projects;. • changes in demand for, or utilization of, our equipment or in the prices we charge due to changes in economic conditions, competition or other factors;. • commodity price pressures and the resultant increase in the cost of fuel and steel to our equipment suppliers, which can result in increased equipment costs for us;. • other cost fluctuations, such as costs for employee-related compensation and healthcare benefits;. 11. Table of Contents. • labor shortages, work stoppages or other labor difficulties;. • potential enactment of new legislation affecting our operations or labor relations;. • completion of acquisitions, divestitures or recapitalizations;. • increases in interest rates and related increases in our interest expense and our debt service obligations;. • the possible need, from time to time, to record goodwill impairment charges or other write-offs or charges due to a variety of occurrences, such as the adoption of new accounting standards, the impairment of assets, rental location divestitures, dislocation in the equity and/or credit markets, consolidations or closings, restructurings, the refinancing of existing indebtedness or the buy-out of equipment leases; and. • currency risks and other risks associated with international operations.. Our common stock price has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future.. Our common stock price has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future for a number of reasons, including:. • announcements of developments related to our business;. • market perceptions of any proposed merger or acquisition and the likelihood of our involvement in other merger and acquisition activity;. • variations in our revenues, gross margins, earnings or other financial results from investors' expectations;. • departure of key personnel;. • purchases or sales of large blocks of our stock by institutional investors or transactions by insiders;. • fluctuations in the results of our operations and general conditions in the economy, our market, and the markets served by our customers;. • investor perceptions of the equipment rental industry in general and our Company in particular;. • fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas;. • expectations regarding our share repurchase program; and. • the operating and stock performance of comparable companies or related industries.. In addition, prices in the stock market have been volatile over the past few years. In certain cases, the fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. As a result, the price of our common stock could fluctuate in the future without regard to our operating performance.. We cannot guarantee that we will repurchase our common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program or that our share repurchase program will enhance long-term stockholder value. Share repurchases could also increase the volatility of the price of our common stock and could diminish our cash reserves.. In July 2015, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program. Under the program, we are authorized to repurchase shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price not to exceed $1 billion, excluding fees, commissions and other ancillary expenses. In October 2016, we paused repurchases under the program as we evaluated a number of potential acquisition opportunities. As discussed in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, we completed the acquisitions of NES in April 2017 and Neff in October 2017. In October 2017, our Board authorized the resumption of the $1 billion share repurchase program, and we intend to complete the program in 2018. The Company had completed $655 million of repurchases under the program as of December 31, 2017.. Although the Board of Directors has authorized the share repurchase program, the share repurchase program does not obligate the Company to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares. The timing and amount of repurchases, if any, will depend upon several factors, including market and business conditions, the trading price of the Company's common stock and the nature of other investment opportunities. The repurchase program may be limited, suspended or discontinued at any time without prior notice. In addition, repurchases of our common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program could affect our stock price and increase its volatility. The existence of a share repurchase program could cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. Additionally, our share repurchase program could diminish our cash reserves, which may impact our ability to finance future growth and to pursue possible future strategic opportunities and acquisitions. There can be no assurance that any share repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of stock. Although our share repurchase program is intended to. 12. Table of Contents. enhance long-term stockholder value, there is no assurance that it will do so and short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program's effectiveness.. If we are unable to collect on contracts with customers, our operating results would be adversely affected.. One of the reasons some of our customers find it more attractive to rent equipment than own that equipment is the need to deploy their capital elsewhere. This has been particularly true in industries with recent high growth rates such as the construction industry. However, some of our customers may have liquidity issues and ultimately may not be able to fulfill the terms of their rental agreements with us. If we are unable to manage credit risk issues adequately, or if a large number of customers have financial difficulties at the same time, our credit losses could increase above historical levels and our operating results would be adversely affected. Further, delinquencies and credit losses generally would be expected to increase if there was a worsening of economic conditions.. If we are unable to obtain additional capital as required, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business.. If the cash that we generate from our business, together with cash that we may borrow under the ABL facility and accounts receivable securitization facility, is not sufficient to fund our capital requirements, we will require additional debt and/or equity financing. However, we may not succeed in obtaining the requisite additional financing or such financing may include terms that are not satisfactory to us. We may not be able to obtain additional debt financing as a result of prevailing interest rates or other factors, including the presence of covenants or other restrictions under the ABL facility and/or other agreements governing our debt. In the event we seek to obtain equity financing, our stockholders may experience dilution as a result of the issuance of additional equity securities. This dilution may be significant depending upon the amount of equity securities that we issue and the prices at which we issue such securities. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business, including those relating to purchasing equipment, growth plans and refinancing existing indebtedness.. If we determine that our goodwill has become impaired, we may incur impairment charges, which would negatively impact our operating results.. At December 31, 2017, we had $4.1 billion of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations. We assess potential impairment of our goodwill at least annually. Impairment may result from significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired assets, negative industry or economic trends and/or significant underperformance relative to historic or projected operating results. For a discussion of our goodwill impairment testing, see \"Critical Accounting Policies-Evaluation of Goodwill Impairment\" in Part II, Item 7A-Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.. Trends in oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect the level of exploration, development and production activity of certain of our customers and the demand for our services and products.. Demand for our services and products is sensitive to the level of exploration, development and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies, including national oil companies, regional exploration and production providers, and related service providers. The level of exploration, development and production activity is directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices, which historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile.. Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty, and a variety of other economic factors that are beyond our control. Any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices will depress the immediate levels of exploration, development and production activity, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even the perception of longer-term lower oil and natural gas prices by oil and natural gas companies and related service providers can similarly reduce or defer major expenditures by these companies and service providers given the long-term nature of many large-scale development projects. Factors affecting the prices of oil and natural gas include:. • the level of supply and demand for oil and natural gas;. • governmental regulations, including the policies of governments regarding the exploration for, and production and development of, oil and natural gas reserves;. • weather conditions and natural disasters;. • worldwide political, military and economic conditions;. • the level of oil production by non-OPEC countries and the available excess production capacity within OPEC;. 13. Table of Contents. • oil refining capacity and shifts in end-customer preferences toward fuel efficiency and the use of natural gas;. • the cost of producing and delivering oil and natural gas; and. • potential acceleration of the development of alternative fuels.. We have a holding company structure and depend in part on distributions from our subsidiaries to pay amounts due on our indebtedness. Certain provisions of law or contractual restrictions could limit distributions from our subsidiaries.. We derive substantially all of our operating income from, and hold substantially all of our assets through, our subsidiaries. The effect of this structure is that we depend in part on the earnings of our subsidiaries, and the payment or other distribution to us of these earnings, to meet our obligations under our outstanding debt. Provisions of law, such as those requiring that dividends be paid only from surplus, could limit the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments or other distributions to us. Furthermore, these subsidiaries could in certain circumstances agree to contractual restrictions on their ability to make distributions.. We are exposed to a variety of claims relating to our business, and our insurance may not fully cover them.. We are in the ordinary course exposed to a variety of claims relating to our business. These claims include those relating to (i) personal injury or property damage involving equipment rented or sold by us, (ii) motor vehicle accidents involving our vehicles and our employees and (iii) employment-related claims. Currently, we carry a broad range of insurance for the protection of our assets and operations. However, such insurance may not fully cover these claims for a number of reasons, including:. • our insurance policies, reflecting a program structure that we believe reflects market conditions for companies our size, are often subject to significant deductibles or self-insured retentions;. • our director and officer liability insurance policy has no deductible for individual non-indemnifiable loss, but is subject to a deductible for company reimbursement coverage;. • we do not currently maintain Company-wide stand-alone coverage for environmental liability (other than legally required coverage), since we believe the cost for such coverage is high relative to the benefit it provides; and. • certain types of claims, such as claims for punitive damages or for damages arising from intentional misconduct, which are often alleged in third party lawsuits, might not be covered by our insurance.. We establish and semi-annually evaluate our loss reserves to address casualty claims, or portions thereof, not covered by our insurance policies. To the extent that we are subject to a higher frequency of claims, are subject to more serious claims or insurance coverage is not available, we could have to significantly increase our reserves, and our liquidity and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. It is also possible that some or all of the insurance that is currently available to us will not be available in the future on economically reasonable terms or at all.. Our charter provisions, as well as other factors, may affect the likelihood of a takeover or change of control of the Company.. Although our Board elected not to extend our stockholders' rights plan upon its expiration in September 2011, we still have in place certain charter provisions, such as the inability for stockholders to act by written consent, that may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in control or management of the Company that are not approved by our Board, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then-current market prices. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, under certain circumstances, restricts the ability of a publicly held Delaware corporation to engage in a business combination, such as a merger or sale of assets, with any stockholder that, together with affiliates, owns 15 percent or more of the corporation's outstanding voting stock, which similarly could prohibit or delay the accomplishment of a change of control transaction. In addition, under the ABL facility, a change of control (as defined in the credit agreement) constitutes an event of default, entitling our lenders to terminate the ABL facility and require us to repay outstanding borrowings. A change of control (as defined in the applicable agreement) is also a termination event under our accounts receivable securitization facility and generally would require us to offer to repurchase our outstanding senior notes. As a result, the provisions of the agreements governing our debt also may affect the likelihood of a takeover or other change of control.. Turnover of members of our management and our ability to attract and retain key personnel may adversely affect our ability to efficiently manage our business and execute our strategy.. Our success is dependent, in part, on the experience and skills of our management team, and competition in our industry and the business world for top management talent is generally significant. Although we believe we generally have competitive pay packages, we can provide no assurance that our efforts to attract and retain our senior management staff will be successful.. 14. Table of Contents. Moreover, given the volatility in our stock price, it may be more difficult and expensive to recruit and retain employees, particularly senior management, through grants of stock or stock options. This, in turn, could place greater pressure on the Company to increase the cash component of its compensation packages, which may adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to fill and keep filled all of our senior management positions, or if we lose the services of any key member of our senior management team and are unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely fashion, we may be challenged to effectively manage our business and execute our strategy.. Our operational and cost reduction strategies may not generate the improvements and efficiencies we expect.. We have been pursuing a strategy of optimizing our field operations in order to improve sales force effectiveness, and to focus our sales force's efforts on increasing revenues from our National Account and other large customers. We are also continuing to pursue our overall cost reduction program, which resulted in substantial cost savings in the past. The extent to which these strategies will achieve our desired efficiencies and goals in 2018 and beyond is uncertain, as their success depends on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Even if we carry out these strategies in the manner we currently expect, we may not achieve the efficiencies or savings we anticipate, or on the timetable we anticipate, and there may be unforeseen productivity, revenue or other consequences resulting from our strategies that may adversely affect us. Therefore, there can be no guarantee that our strategies will prove effective in achieving the desired level of profitability, margins or returns to stockholders.. We are dependent on our relationships with key suppliers to obtain equipment and other supplies for our business on acceptable terms.. We have achieved significant cost savings through our centralization of equipment and non-equipment purchases. However, as a result, we depend on and are exposed to the credit risk of a group of key suppliers. While we make every effort to evaluate our counterparties prior to entering into long-term and other significant procurement contracts, we cannot predict the impact on our suppliers of the current economic environment and other developments in their respective businesses. Insolvency, financial difficulties or other factors may result in our suppliers not being able to fulfill the terms of their agreements with us. Further, such factors may render suppliers unwilling to extend contracts that provide favorable terms to us, or may force them to seek to renegotiate existing contracts with us. Although we believe we have alternative sources of supply for the equipment and other supplies used in our business, termination of our relationship with any of our key suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations in the unlikely event that we were unable to obtain adequate equipment or supplies from other sources in a timely manner or at all.. If our rental fleet ages, our operating costs may increase, we may be unable to pass along such costs, and our earnings may decrease. The costs of new equipment we use in our fleet may increase, requiring us to spend more for replacement equipment or preventing us from procuring equipment on a timely basis.. If our rental equipment ages, the costs of maintaining such equipment, if not replaced within a certain period of time, will likely increase. The costs of maintenance may materially increase in the future and could lead to material adverse effects on our results of operations.. The cost of new equipment for use in our rental fleet could also increase due to increased material costs for our suppliers or other factors beyond our control. Such increases could materially adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations in future periods. Furthermore, changes in customer demand could cause certain of our existing equipment to become obsolete and require us to purchase new equipment at increased costs.. Our industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could lead to a decrease in our market share or in the prices that we can charge.. The equipment rental industry is highly fragmented and competitive. Our competitors include small, independent businesses with one or two rental locations, regional competitors that operate in one or more states, public companies or divisions of public companies, and equipment vendors and dealers who both sell and rent equipment directly to customers. We may in the future encounter increased competition from our existing competitors or from new competitors. Competitive pressures could adversely affect our revenues and operating results by, among other things, decreasing our rental volumes, depressing the prices that we can charge or increasing our costs to retain employees.. Disruptions in our information technology systems or a compromise of security with respect to our systems could adversely affect our operating results by limiting our ability to effectively monitor and control our operations, adjust to changing market conditions, implement strategic initiatives or support our online ordering system.. We rely on our information technology systems to be able to monitor and control our operations, adjust to changing market conditions, implement strategic initiatives and support our online ordering system. Any disruptions in these systems or. 15. Table of Contents. the failure of these systems to operate as expected could, depending on the magnitude of the problem, adversely affect our operating results by limiting our ability to effectively monitor and control our operations, adjust to changing market conditions, implement strategic initiatives and service online orders. In addition, the security measures we employ to protect our systems may not detect or prevent all attempts to hack our systems, denial-of-service attacks, viruses, malicious software, phishing attacks, security breaches or other attacks and similar disruptions that may jeopardize the security of information stored in or transmitted by the sites, networks and systems that we otherwise maintain. We have, from time to time, experienced threats to our data and systems, including malware and computer virus attacks. Additionally, we may not anticipate or combat all types of future attacks until after they have been launched. If any of these breaches of security occur or are anticipated in the future, we could be required to expend additional capital and other resources, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees and engage third-party experts and consultants. In addition, because our systems sometimes contain information about individuals and businesses, our failure to appropriately maintain the security of the data we hold, whether as a result of our own error or the malfeasance or errors of others, could lead to disruptions in our online ordering system or other data systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information or corruption of data. Our failure to appropriately maintain the security of the data we hold could also violate applicable privacy, data security and other laws and give rise to legal liabilities leading to lower revenues, increased costs and other material adverse effects on our results of operations. Any compromise or breach of our systems could result in adverse publicity, harm our reputation, lead to claims against us and affect our relationships with our customers and employees, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Certain of our software applications are also utilized by third parties who provide outsourced administrative functions, which may increase the risk of a cybersecurity incident. Although we maintain insurance coverage for various cybersecurity risks, there can be no guarantee that all costs or losses incurred will be fully insured.. We are subject to numerous environmental and safety regulations. If we are required to incur compliance or remediation costs that are not currently anticipated, our liquidity and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing environmental protection and occupational health and safety matters. These laws regulate issues such as wastewater, stormwater, solid and hazardous waste and materials, and air quality. Under these laws, we may be liable for, among other things, (i) the costs of investigating and remediating any contamination at our sites as well as sites to which we send hazardous waste for disposal or treatment, regardless of fault, and (ii) fines and penalties for non-compliance. While our operations generally do not raise significant environmental risks, we use hazardous materials to clean and maintain equipment, dispose of solid and hazardous waste and wastewater from equipment washing, and store and dispense petroleum products from above-ground storage tanks located at certain of our locations.. We cannot be certain as to the potential financial impact on our business if new adverse environmental conditions are discovered or environmental and safety requirements become more stringent. If we are required to incur environmental compliance or remediation costs that are not currently anticipated, our liquidity and operating results could be materially and adversely affected, depending on the magnitude of such costs.. We have operations throughout the United States, which exposes us to multiple state and local regulations, in addition to federal law and requirements as a government contractor. Changes in applicable law, regulations or requirements, or our material failure to comply with any of them, can increase our costs and have other negative impacts on our business.. Our 874 branch locations in the United States are located in 49 states, which exposes us to a host of different state and local regulations, in addition to federal law and regulatory and contractual requirements we face as a government contractor. These laws and requirements address multiple aspects of our operations, such as worker safety, consumer rights, privacy, employee benefits and more, and there are often different requirements in different jurisdictions. Changes in these requirements, or any material failure by our branches to comply with them, can increase our costs, affect our reputation, limit our business, drain management time and attention and otherwise impact our operations in adverse ways.. Our collective bargaining agreements and our relationship with our union-represented employees could disrupt our ability to serve our customers, lead to higher labor costs or the payment of withdrawal liability.. We currently have approximately 1,100 employees who are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements and approximately 13,700 employees who are not represented by unions. Various unions occasionally seek to organize certain of our nonunion employees. Union organizing efforts or collective bargaining negotiations could potentially lead to work stoppages and/or slowdowns or strikes by certain of our employees, which could adversely affect our ability to serve our customers. Further, settlement of actual or threatened labor disputes or an increase in the number of our employees covered by collective bargaining agreements can have unknown effects on our labor costs, productivity and flexibility.. Under the collective bargaining agreements that we have signed, we are obligated to contribute to several multiemployer pension plans on behalf of some of our unionized employees. A multiemployer pension plan is a plan that covers the union-. 16. Table of Contents. represented workers of various unrelated companies. Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, a contributing employer to an underfunded multiemployer plan is liable, generally upon withdrawal from a plan, for its proportionate share of the plan's unfunded vested liability. We currently have no intention of withdrawing from any multiemployer plan. However, there can be no assurance that we will not withdraw from one or more multiemployer plans in the future and be required to pay material amounts of withdrawal liability if one or more of those plans are underfunded at the time of withdrawal.. Fluctuations in fuel costs or reduced supplies of fuel could harm our business.. We believe that one of our competitive advantages is the mobility of our fleet. Accordingly, our business could be adversely affected by limitations on fuel supplies or significant increases in fuel prices that result in higher costs to us for transporting equipment from one branch to another branch. Although we have used, and may continue to use, futures contracts to hedge against fluctuations in fuel prices, a significant or protracted price fluctuation or disruption of fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our rental fleet is subject to residual value risk upon disposition, and may not sell at the prices or in the quantities we expect.. The market value of any given piece of rental equipment could be less than its depreciated value at the time it is sold. The market value of used rental equipment depends on several factors, including:. • the market price for new equipment of a like kind;. • wear and tear on the equipment relative to its age and the performance of preventive maintenance;. • the time of year that it is sold;. • the supply of used equipment on the market;. • the existence and capacities of different sales outlets;. • the age of the equipment at the time it is sold;. • worldwide and domestic demand for used equipment; and. • general economic conditions.. We include in income from operations the difference between the sales price and the depreciated value of an item of equipment sold. Changes in our assumptions regarding depreciation could change our depreciation expense, as well as the gain or loss realized upon disposal of equipment. Sales of our used rental equipment at prices that fall significantly below our projections and/or in lesser quantities than we anticipate will have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows.. We have operations outside the United States. As a result, we may incur losses from the impact of foreign currency fluctuations and have higher costs than we otherwise would have due to the need to comply with foreign laws.. Our operations in Canada are subject to the risks normally associated with international operations. These include (i) the need to convert currencies, which could result in a gain or loss depending on fluctuations in exchange rates and (ii) the need to comply with foreign laws and regulations, as well as U.S. laws and regulations applicable to our operations in foreign jurisdictions. See Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for additional information related to currency exchange risk.. 17. Table of Contents"
