[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Forward-Looking Statements. We make forward-looking statements in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this report based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information currently available to us. Forward-looking statements include information about our possible or assumed future results of operations, which follow under the headings \"Business\", \"Liquidity and Capital Resources\", and other statements throughout this report preceded by, followed by or that include the words \"believes\", \"expects\", \"anticipates\", \"intends\", \"plans\", \"estimates\" or similar expressions.. Any number of risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those we express in our forward-looking statements, including the risks and uncertainties we describe below and other factors we describe from time to time in our periodic filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the \"SEC\"). We therefore caution you not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statement. The forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments, or otherwise.. Risks and Uncertainties. We are subject to various risks that could have a negative effect on us or on our financial condition. You should understand that these risks could cause results to differ materially from those we express in forward-looking statements contained in this report or in other Company communications. Because there is no way to determine in advance whether, or to what extent, any present uncertainty will ultimately impact our business, you should give equal weight to each of the following:. 9. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Doing Business in the PRC. We manufacture a majority of our products in our factories in the PRC. Additionally, many of our contract manufacturers are located in the PRC. Doing business in the PRC carries a number of risks including the following:. Changes in the policies of the PRC government may have a significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in the PRC and the profitability of such business.. Our business operations may be adversely affected by the current and future political environment in the PRC. The government of the PRC has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy, through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in the PRC may be adversely affected by changes in Chinese laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, labor and social insurance, import and export tariffs, raw materials, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters.. The PRC laws and regulations governing our current business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such PRC laws and regulations may harm our business.. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our business. If the relevant authorities find that we are in violation of PRC laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation:. • levying fines;. • revoking our business and other licenses;. • requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; and. • requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business.. The fluctuation of the Chinese Yuan Renminbi may harm your investment.. Under Chinese monetary policy, the Chinese Yuan Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies and has resulted in a 23.5% appreciation of the Chinese Yuan Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar during the period from July 21, 2005 to December 31, 2017. While the international reaction to the Chinese Yuan Renminbi revaluation has been positive, there remains international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which may result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Chinese Yuan Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar, which could lead to higher manufacturing costs for our products.. The PRC's legal and judicial system may not adequately protect our business and operations and the rights of foreign investors.. The PRC legal and judicial system may negatively impact foreign investors, with enforcement of existing laws inconsistent. In addition, the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws and the pre-emption of local regulations by national laws may adversely affect foreign investors.. Availability of adequate workforce levels. Presently, the vast majority of workers at our PRC factories are obtained from third-party employment agencies. As the labor laws, social insurance and wage levels continue to mature and grow and the workers become more sophisticated, our costs to employ these and other workers in the PRC may grow beyond that anticipated by management. While we have already experienced increases in labor rates in the PRC, as the PRC market continues to open up and grow, we may experience an increase in competition for the same workers, resulting in either an inability to attract and retain an adequate number of qualified workers or an increase in our employment costs to obtain and retain these workers.. Expansion in the PRC. As our global business grows, we may decide to expand in China to meet demand. This would be dependent on our ability to locate suitable facilities to support this expansion, to obtain the necessary permits and funding, to attract and retain adequate levels of qualified workers, and to enter into a long-term land lease that is common in the PRC.. Sale of Guangzhou factory. On September 26, 2016, we entered into an agreement to sell our Guangzhou manufacturing facility. While the buyer has completed its due diligence review, the parties are discussing a small number of open items. Management continues to expect this sale to close in the first half of 2018. In anticipation of a successful closing of the sale, we completed the shutdown of all operations at our Guangzhou facility in 2017 and have largely completed the transition of manufacturing activities from this factory to our other. 10. Table of Contents. China factories. As a result of this transition, we experienced numerous factory inefficiencies related to hiring, training and other transition activities to allow us to manufacture all of the products previously manufactured in Guangzhou at our other China factories. If we are unsuccessful at completing this transition, this could continue to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, if the sale does not close, we may incur unexpected costs associated with an unutilized factory, we may incur additional costs to sell the factory to another buyer, and we may be forced to sell the factory at a less favorable price.. Risks and Uncertainties Associated with Our Expansion Into and Our Operations Outside of the United States May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Cash Flow, Liquidity or Financial Condition. Net external sales of our consolidated foreign subsidiaries totaled approximately 44.3%, 41.0% and 43.5% of our total consolidated net sales in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We expect that the international share of our total revenues will continue to make up a significant part of our current business and future strategic plans. Additionally, we operate factories in the PRC, Brazil and Mexico, as well as an engineering center in India. As a result, we are increasingly exposed to the challenges and risks of doing business outside the United States, which could reduce our revenues or profits, increase our costs, result in significant liabilities or sanctions, or otherwise disrupt our business. These challenges include: (1) compliance with complex and changing laws, regulations and policies of governments that may impact our operations, such as foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, tariffs, and trade restrictions; (2) compliance with U.S. and foreign laws that affect the activities of companies abroad, such as anti-corruption laws, competition laws, currency regulations, and laws affecting dealings with certain nations; (3) limitations on our ability to repatriate non-U.S. earnings in a tax effective manner; (4) the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries; (5) uncertainties as to the enforceability of contract and intellectual property rights under local laws; (6) rapid changes in government policy, political or civil unrest in the Middle East and elsewhere, acts of terrorism, or the threat of international boycotts or U.S. anti-boycott legislation; and (7) currency exchange rate fluctuations.. We are also exposed to risks relating to U.S. policy with respect to companies doing business in foreign jurisdictions, particularly in light of the current U.S. presidential administration. For example, the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on December 22, 2017, significantly changed U.S. income tax law. While we are still assessing the long-term impact these changes will have on our overall income tax liability under our existing business structure, these recent changes in the U.S. tax laws could increase our U.S. income tax liability and adversely affect our consolidated after-tax profitability. In addition, the current U.S. presidential administration has introduced greater uncertainty with respect to future trade regulations and trade agreements. Changes in tax policy, trade regulations or trade agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Failure by Our International Operations to Comply With Anti-Corruption Laws or Trade Sanctions Could Increase Our Costs, Reduce Our Profits, Limit Our Growth, Harm Our Reputation, or Subject us to Broader Liability. We are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-corruption laws and regulations of other countries applicable to our operations. Anti-corruption laws and regulations generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons in order to receive or retain business. The compliance programs, internal controls and policies we maintain and enforce to promote compliance with applicable anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws may not prevent our associates, contractors or agents from acting in ways prohibited by these laws and regulations. We are also subject to trade sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and the U.S. Department of Commerce. Our compliance programs and internal controls also may not prevent conduct that is prohibited under these rules. The United States may impose additional sanctions at any time against any country in which or with whom we do business. Depending on the nature of the sanctions imposed, our operations in the relevant country could be restricted or otherwise adversely affected. Any violations of anti-corruption laws and regulations or trade sanctions could result in significant civil and criminal penalties, reduce our profits, disrupt our business or damage our reputation. In addition, an imposition of further restrictions in these areas could increase our cost of operations, reduce our profits or cause us to forgo development opportunities that would otherwise support growth.. Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Cash Flow, Liquidity or Financial Condition.. Because of our international operations, we are exposed to risk associated with interest rates and value changes in foreign currencies, which may adversely affect our business. Historically, our reported net sales, earnings, cash flow and financial condition have been subjected to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Our exchange rate exposure is in the Argentinian Peso, Brazilian Real, British Pound, Chinese Yuan Renminbi, Euro, Hong Kong Dollar, Indian Rupee, Japanese Yen, Korean Won and Mexican Peso. While we actively manage the exposure of our foreign currency risk as part of our overall financial risk management policy, we believe we may experience losses from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and such losses may adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.. 11. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to Natural or Man-made Disasters, Contagious Disease, Terrorist Activity, and War May Adversely Affect Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our ability, including manufacturing or distribution capabilities, and that of our suppliers, business partners and contract manufacturers, to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. So called \"Acts of God,\" such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, and other natural disasters, as well as the potential spread of contagious diseases in locations where we or they own or operate significant operations could cause a disruption in our or our third party's production and distribution capabilities or a decline in demand for our products and services.   In addition, actual or threatened war, terrorist activity, political unrest, or civil strife, such as recent events in Ukraine and Russia, the Middle East, North Korea and other geopolitical uncertainty could have a similar effect. Any one or more of these events may reduce our ability to produce or sell our products which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain.. Dependence on Foreign Manufacturing. Although we own and operate factories in the PRC, Brazil and Mexico, third-party manufacturers located in Asia continue to manufacture a portion of our products. Our arrangements with these foreign manufacturers are subject to the risks of doing business abroad, such as tariffs, environmental and trade restrictions, intellectual property protection and enforcement, export license requirements, work stoppages, political and social instability, economic and labor conditions, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, changes in laws and policies (including fiscal policies), and other factors, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. We believe that the loss of any one or more of our manufacturers would not have a long-term material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows, because numerous other manufacturers are available to fulfill our requirements; however, the loss of any of our major third-party manufacturers may adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows until alternative manufacturing arrangements are secured.. Dependence upon Key Suppliers. Most of the components used in our products are available from multiple sources. However, we purchase integrated circuits, used principally in our wireless control products, from a small number of key suppliers. To reduce our dependence on our integrated circuit suppliers we continually seek additional sources. We maintain inventories of our integrated circuits, which may be used in part to mitigate, but not eliminate, delays resulting from supply interruptions.. We have identified alternative sources of supply for our integrated circuit, component parts, and finished goods needs; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain these inventory purchases on a timely basis. Any extended interruption, shortage or termination in the supply of any of the components used in our products, or a reduction in their quality or reliability, or a significant increase in prices of components, would have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial position and cash flows.. Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights. The procedures by which we identify, document and file for patent, trademark, and copyright protection are based solely on engineering and management judgment, with no assurance that a specific filing will be issued, or if issued, will deliver any lasting value to us. Because of the rapid innovation of products and technologies that is characteristic of our industry, there can be no assurance that rights granted under any patent will provide competitive advantages to us or will be adequate to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights. Moreover, the laws of certain countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold may not offer protection on such products and associated intellectual property to the same extent that the United States legal system may offer.. In our opinion, our intellectual property holdings as well as our engineering, production, and marketing skills and the experience of our personnel are of equal importance to our market position. We further believe that our business is not materially dependent upon any single patent, copyright, trademark, or trade secret.. Some of our products include or use technology and/or components of third parties. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of such products, we believe that, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses may be obtained on commercially reasonable terms; however, there can be no guarantee that such licenses may be obtained on such terms or at all. Because of technological changes in the wireless and home control industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible certain components of our products and business methods may unknowingly infringe upon the patents of others.. 12. Table of Contents. Potential for Litigation. As is typical in our industry and for the nature and kind of business in which we are engaged, from time to time various claims, charges and litigation are asserted or commenced by third parties against us or by us against third parties, arising from or related to product liability, infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights, breach of warranty, contractual relations or employee relations. The amounts claimed may be substantial, but they may not bear any reasonable relationship to the merits of the claims or the extent of any real risk of court awards assessed against us or in our favor.. Technology Changes in Wireless Control and Sensing. We currently derive substantial revenue from the sale of wireless remote controls, sensors and home automation products based on IR and RF and other technologies. Other control technologies exist or may be developed that may compete with this technology. In addition, we develop and maintain our own database of IR and RF codes. There are other IR and RF libraries offered by companies that we compete with in the marketplace. The advantage that we may have compared to our competitors is difficult to measure. In addition, if competing wireless control and sensing technology and products gain acceptance and start to be integrated into home electronics devices and home security and automation products that are currently utilizing our remote controllers and sensors, demand for our products may decrease, resulting in decreased operating results, financial condition, and cash flows.. Our Technology Development Activities May Experience Delays.. We may experience technical, financial, resource or other difficulties or delays related to the further development of our technologies. Delays may have adverse financial effects and may allow competitors with comparable technology offerings to gain an advantage over us in the marketplace or in the standards setting arena. There can be no assurance that we will continue to have adequate staffing or that our development efforts will ultimately be successful. Moreover, certain of our technologies have not been fully tested in commercial use, and it is possible that they may not perform as expected. In such cases, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected, and our ability to secure new licensees and other business opportunities may be diminished.. Change in Competition and Pricing. Even with having our own factories, we will continue to rely on third-party manufacturers to build a portion of our universal wireless control products. Price is always an issue in winning and retaining business. If customers become increasingly price sensitive, new competition may arise from manufacturers who decide to go into direct competition with us or from current competitors who perform their own manufacturing. If such a trend develops, we may experience downward pressure on our pricing or lose sales, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.. Risks Related to Adverse Changes in General Business and Economic Conditions. Adverse changes in general business and economic conditions in the United States and worldwide may reduce the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. Higher inflation rates, interest rates, tax rates and unemployment rates, higher labor and health care costs, recessions, changing governmental policies, laws and regulations, increased tariffs, and other economic factors may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. Any such changes may impact our business in a number of ways, including:. Potential deferment of purchases and orders by customers and cyclical nature of portions of our business. Uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions may cause consumers, businesses and governments to defer purchases in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and declining consumer confidence. Accordingly, future demand for our products may differ materially from our current expectations.. In addition, portions of our business involve the sale of products to sectors of the economy that are cyclical in nature, particularly the retail sector. Our sales to these sectors are affected by the levels of discretionary consumer and business spending. During economic downturns, the levels of consumer and business discretionary spending in these sectors may decrease, and the recovery of these sectors may lag behind the recovery of the overall economy. This decrease in spending will likely reduce the demand for some of our products and may adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition.  Although many of our end markets have shown signs of stabilization and modest improvement from the recent global economic downturn, the recovery has been erratic. A worsening in these sectors may cause a reduction in the demand for some of our products and may adversely impact sales, earnings, cash flow and financial condition.. 13. Table of Contents. Customers' inability to obtain financing to make purchases from us and/or maintain their business. Some of our customers require substantial financing in order to fund their operations and make purchases from us. The inability of these customers to obtain sufficient credit to finance purchases of our products may adversely impact our financial results. In addition, an economic downturn could result in insolvencies for our customers, which may adversely impact our financial results.. Potential impact on trade receivables. Credit market conditions may slow our collection efforts as customers experience increased difficulty in obtaining requisite financing, leading to higher than normal accounts receivable balances and longer days sales outstanding. Continuation of these conditions may limit our ability to collect our accounts receivable, which may result in greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense.. Negative impact from increased financial pressures on third-party dealers, distributors and retailers. We make sales in certain regions of the world through third-party dealers, distributors and retailers. Although many of these third parties have significant operations and maintain access to available credit, others are smaller and more likely to be impacted by a significant decrease in available credit. If credit pressures or other financial difficulties result in insolvency for these third parties and we are unable to successfully transition our end customers to purchase products from other third parties or from us directly, it may adversely impact our financial results.. Negative impact from increased financial pressures on key suppliers. Our ability to meet customers' demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components from our suppliers. Certain of our components are available only from a single source or limited sources. If certain key suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent as a result of an economic downturn, it may result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies and adversely impact our financial results. In addition, credit constraints at key suppliers may result in accelerated payment of accounts payable by us, impacting our cash flow.. Potential Fluctuations in Quarterly Results. We may from time to time increase our operating expenses to fund greater levels of research and development, sales and marketing activities, development of new distribution channels, improvements in our operational and financial systems and development of our customer support capabilities, and to support our efforts to comply with various government regulations. To the extent such expenses precede or are not subsequently followed by increased revenues, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows will be adversely affected.. In addition, we may experience significant fluctuations in future quarterly operating results that may be caused by many other factors, including demand for our products, introduction or enhancement of products by us and our competitors, the loss or acquisition of any significant customers, market acceptance of new products, price reductions by us or our competitors, mix of distribution channels through which our products are sold, product or supply constraints, level of product returns, mix of customers and products sold, component pricing, mix of international and domestic revenues, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and general economic conditions. In addition, as a strategic response to changes in the competitive environment, we may from time to time make certain pricing or marketing decisions or acquisitions that may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. As a result, we believe period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance.. Due to all of the foregoing factors, it is possible that in some future quarters our operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this happens the price of our common stock may be materially adversely affected.. Our Ability to Generate Cash Depends on Many Factors Beyond Our Control. We Also Depend on the Business of Our Subsidiaries to Satisfy Our Cash Needs.. Our historical financial results have been, and we anticipate that our future financial results will be, subject to fluctuations. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make payments of our debt, fund our other liquidity needs and make planned capital expenditures.. A significant portion of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to generate sufficient cash flow for our needs is dependent on the earnings of our subsidiaries and the payment of those earnings to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances and through repayment of loans or advances from us. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities. Our subsidiaries have no obligation to pay any amounts due on our debt or to provide us with funds to meet our cash flow needs,. 14. Table of Contents. whether in the form of dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. In addition, any payment of dividends, loans or advances by our subsidiaries may be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions. Payments to us by our subsidiaries will also be contingent upon our subsidiaries' earnings and business considerations. Our right to receive any assets of any of our subsidiaries upon their liquidation or reorganization will be effectively subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary's creditors, including trade creditors. In addition, even if we are a creditor of any of our subsidiaries, our rights as a creditor would be subordinate to any security interest in the assets of our subsidiaries and any indebtedness of our subsidiaries senior to that held by us. Further, changes in the laws of foreign jurisdictions in which we operate may adversely affect the ability of some of our foreign subsidiaries to repatriate funds to us.. In addition, we may fund a portion of our seasonal working capital needs and obtain funding for other general corporate purposes through short-term borrowings backed by our revolving credit facility and other financing facilities. If any of the banks in these credit and financing facilities are unable to perform on their commitments, which may adversely affect our ability to fund seasonal working capital needs and obtain funding for other general corporate purposes, our cash flow, liquidity or financial condition may be adversely impacted. Although we currently have available credit facilities to fund our current operating needs, we cannot be certain that we will be able to replace our existing credit facilities or refinance our existing or future debt when necessary. Our cost of borrowing and ability to access the capital markets are affected not only by market conditions, but also by our debt and credit ratings assigned by the major credit rating agencies. Downgrades in these ratings will increase our cost of borrowing and may have an adverse effect on our access to the capital markets, including our access to the commercial paper market. An inability to access the capital markets may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.. The Price of Our Common Stock is Volatile and May Decline Regardless of Our Operating Performance.. Historically, we have had large fluctuations in the price of our common stock, and such fluctuations may continue. The market price for our common stock is volatile and may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including:. • the public's response to press releases or other public announcements by us or third parties, including our filings with the SEC and announcements relating to product and technology development, relationships with new and existing customers, litigation and other legal proceedings in which we are involved and intellectual property impacting us or our business;. • announcements concerning strategic transactions, such as spin-offs, joint ventures and acquisitions or divestitures;. • the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections;. • changes in financial estimates or ratings by any securities analysts who follow our common stock, our failure to meet these estimates or failure of those analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our common stock;. • investor perceptions as to the likelihood of achievement of near-term goals;. • changes in market share of significant customers;. • changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology or content providing companies generally; and. • market conditions or trends in our industry or the economy as a whole.. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were involved in securities litigation, we may incur substantial costs and our resources and the attention of management may be diverted from our business.. In addition, our officers and directors periodically sell shares of our common stock which they own, many times pursuant to trading plans established under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act.  Sales of shares by our officers and directors may not be indicative of their respective opinions of our performance at the time of sale or of our potential future performance. Nonetheless, the market price of our stock may be affected by such sales of shares by our officers and directors.. If Securities or Industry Analysts Fail to Continue Publishing Research About Our Business, Our Stock Price and Trading Volume May Decline.. The trading market for our common stock has historically been at low volumes and is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we may lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn may cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. 15. Table of Contents. Future Sales of Our Equity May Depress the Market Price of Our Common Stock.. We have several institutional stockholders that own significant blocks of our common stock. If one or more of these stockholders were to sell large portions of their holdings in a relatively short time, for liquidity or other reasons, the prevailing market price of our common stock may be negatively affected. Further, due to our historically low trading volumes, such large stockholders may not be able to sell the number of shares they wish to sell and/or in the time frame in which they wish to sell. Moreover, while such large stockholders are attempting to sell their shares, other stockholders may not be able to sell their shares at the price and time that such other stockholders desire due to the low trading volumes of our stock. Additionally, in March 2016, we issued common stock purchase warrants to Comcast Corporation (\"Comcast\") to purchase up to 725,000 shares of our common stock at a price of $54.55 per share. The right to exercise the warrants is subject to vesting over three successive two-year periods (the first two-year period commenced on January 1, 2016 and ended on December 31, 2017) based on the level of purchases of goods and services from us by Comcast and its affiliates, as defined in the warrants. To the extent that the warrants vest and Comcast exercises the warrants and sells any of the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price and/or trading volume of our common stock. Based upon the volume of goods and services purchased by Comcast during the first two-year period which ended on December 31, 2017, Comcast vested in 175,000 of the warrants.. Approved Stock Repurchase Programs May Not Result in a Positive Return of Capital to Stockholders.. Periodically, our Board approves programs to repurchase our common stock based upon an assessment of then current value as compared to then trading ranges and investor analyst reports.  Also considered in this decision is the effect any such repurchases may have on our cash balances and needs, cash flow, and short- and long-term borrowing. Our stock price has experienced substantial price volatility in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Additionally, we, the technology industry and the stock market as a whole have experienced extreme stock price and volume fluctuations that have affected stock prices in ways that may have been unrelated to our and these companies' operating performance. Price volatility over a given period may cause the average price at which we repurchase our own stock to exceed the stock's price at a given point in time. While we believe our stock price should reflect expectations of future growth and profitability, we also believe our stock price should reflect expectations that our share repurchase program will be fully consummated even though our share repurchase program does not obligate us to acquire any specific number of shares. If we fail to meet expectations related to future growth, profitability, share repurchases or other market expectations, our stock price may decline significantly, which could have a material adverse impact on investor confidence.. Dependence on Consumer Preference. We are susceptible to fluctuations in our business based upon consumer demand for our products. In addition, we cannot guarantee that increases in demand for our products associated with increases in the deployment of new technology will continue. We believe that our success depends on our ability to anticipate, gauge and respond to fluctuations in consumer preferences. However, it is impossible to predict with complete accuracy the occurrence and effect of fluctuations in consumer demand over a product's life cycle. Moreover, any growth in revenues that we achieve may be transitory and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance.. Demand for Consumer Service and Support. We have continually provided domestic and international consumer service and support to our customers to add overall value and to help differentiate us from our competitors. We continually review our service and support group and are marketing our expertise in this area to other potential customers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract new customers in the future.. In addition, certain of our products have more features and are more complex than others and therefore require more end-user technical support. In some instances, we rely on distributors or dealers to provide the initial level of technical support to the end-users. We provide the second level of technical support for bug fixes and other issues at no additional charge. Therefore, as the mix of our products includes more of these complex product lines, support costs may increase, which may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows.. 16. Table of Contents. Dependence upon New Product Introduction. Our ability to remain competitive in the wireless control, AV accessory, home security and home automation markets will depend considerably upon our ability to successfully identify new product opportunities, as well as develop and introduce these products and enhancements on a timely and cost effective basis. There can be no assurance that we will be successful at developing and marketing new products or enhancing our existing products, or that these new or enhanced products will achieve consumer acceptance and, if achieved, will sustain that acceptance. In addition, there can be no assurance that products developed by others will not render our products non-competitive or obsolete or that we will be able to obtain or maintain the rights to use proprietary technologies developed by others which are incorporated in our products. Any failure to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments and customer requirements, or any significant delays in product development or introduction, may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.. In addition, the introduction of new products may require significant expenditures for research and development, tooling, manufacturing processes, inventory and marketing. In order to achieve high volume production of any new product, we may have to make substantial investments in inventory and expand our production capabilities.. Dependence on Major Customers. The economic strength and weakness of our worldwide customers affect our performance. We sell our wireless control products, AV accessory products, and proprietary technologies to subscription broadcasters, original equipment manufacturers, retailers and private label customers. We also supply our products to our wholly owned, non-U.S. subsidiaries and to independent foreign distributors, who in turn distribute our products worldwide, with Europe, Asia and Latin America currently representing our principal foreign markets.. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we had sales in excess of 10% of our net sales to Comcast and to AT&T. The loss of any of these customers or of any other key customer, either in the United States or abroad or our inability to maintain order volume with these customers, may have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.. Outsourced Labor. We continue to use outside resources to assist us in the development of some of our products and technologies. While we believe that such outside services will continue to be available to us, if they cease to be available, the development of these products and technologies may be substantially delayed, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.. Disruptions Caused by Labor Disputes or Organized Labor Activities Could Materially Harm our Business and Reputation. Currently, approximately 400 of our Brazil and Mexico employees are represented by labor unions. Disputes with the current labor unions or new union organizing activities could lead to production slowdowns or stoppages and make it difficult or impossible for us to meet scheduled delivery times for product shipments to some of our customers, which could result in a loss of business and material damage to our reputation. In addition, union activity and compliance with international labor standards could result in higher labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. Competition. Competition within the wireless control industry is based primarily on product availability, price, speed of delivery, ability to tailor specific solutions to customer needs, quality, and depth of product lines. Our competition is fragmented across our products, and, accordingly, we do not compete with any one company across all product lines. We compete with a variety of entities, some of which have greater financial resources. Other competitors are smaller and may be able to offer more specialized products. Our ability to remain competitive in this industry depends in part on our ability to successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and introduce new products and enhancements on a timely and cost effective basis, as well as our ability to successfully identify and enter into strategic alliances with entities doing business within the industries we serve. Competition in any of these areas may reduce our sales and adversely affect our earnings or cash flow by resulting in decreased sales volumes, reduced prices and increased costs of manufacturing, distributing and selling our products. There can be no assurance that our product offerings will be, and/or will remain, competitive or that strategic alliances, if any, will achieve the type, extent, and amount of success or business that we expect them to achieve. The sales of our products and technology may not occur or grow in the manner we expect, and thus we may not recoup costs incurred in the research and development of these products as quickly as we expect, if at all.. The home security and automation industry is highly fragmented and subject to significant competition and pricing pressures.  In particular, the monitored security industry providers have highly recognized brands which may drive increased awareness of their. 17. Table of Contents. security/automation offerings rather than ours, have access to greater capital and resources than us, and may spend significantly more on advertising, marketing and promotional resources which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to drive awareness and demand for our products and services.  In addition, cable and telecommunications companies have expanded into the monitored security industry and are bundling their existing offerings with monitored security services.  We also face competition from Do-It-Yourself (\"DIY\") companies that are increasingly providing products which enable customers to self-monitor and control their environments without third-party involvement.  Further, DIY providers may also offer professional monitoring with the purchase of their systems and equipment or new IoT devices and services with automated features and capabilities that may be appealing to customers.  Continued pricing pressure, improvements in technology and shifts in customer preferences towards self-monitoring or DIY could adversely impact our customer base and/or pricing structure and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are Exposed to Greater Risks of Liability for Omissions or System Failures. If a customer or third party believes that he or she has suffered harm to person or property due to an actual or alleged security system failure, he or she (or their insurers) may pursue legal action against us, and the cost of defending the legal action and of any judgment against us could be substantial.  In particular, because some of our products and services are intended to help protect lives and real and personal property, we may have greater exposure to litigation risks than businesses that provide other consumer and small business products and services.  While our customer contracts contain a series of risk-mitigation provisions that are aimed at limiting our liability and/or limiting a claimant's ability to pursue legal action against us, in the event of litigation with respect to such matters it is possible that these risk-mitigation provisions may be deemed not applicable or unenforceable and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, we may incur significant costs of defense that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our Brand Quality and Reputation. Our business depends on the quality and reputation of our brands, and any deterioration in the quality or reputation of these brands may have an adverse impact on our market share, reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. Events that may be beyond our control may affect the reputation of one or more of our products or more generally impact the reputation of our brands. If the reputation or perceived quality of our brands declines, our market share, reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations may be affected.. Unanticipated Changes in Tax and Other Laws and Regulations. Our business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of laws, regulations and policies in jurisdictions around the world. In response to continued economic challenges, we anticipate that many of the jurisdictions in which we do business will continue to review tax and other revenue raising laws, regulations and policies, and any resulting changes may impose new restrictions, costs or prohibitions on our current practices and reduce our profits. In particular, governments may revise tax laws, regulations or official interpretations in ways that may have a significant impact on us, including modifications that may reduce the profits that we can effectively realize from our non-U.S. operations, or that may require costly changes to those operations, or the way in which they are structured. If changes in tax laws, regulations or interpretations significantly increase the tax rates on non-U.S. income, our effective tax rate may increase and our profits may be reduced. If such increases resulted from our status as a U.S. company, those changes may place us at a disadvantage to our non-U.S. competitors if those competitors remain subject to lower local tax rates. Further, the recent passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in the U.S. significantly changes U.S. income tax law and could increase the tax rate on our non-U.S. income, which may increase our overall effective tax rate.. In addition, from time to time, we are subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges or other matters and assess additional taxes. We assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of the tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict or calculate the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits may have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our effective tax rate in the future may be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. Furthermore, our tax provisions may be adversely affected as a result of any new interpretative accounting guidance related to accounting for uncertain tax positions.. 18. Table of Contents. Environmental Matters. Many of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws governing chemical substances in products, including laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances and restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products. In addition, many of these laws and regulations make producers of electrical goods responsible for collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of recovered products. As a result, we may face significant costs and liabilities in complying with these laws and any future laws and regulations or enforcement policies that may have a material adverse effect upon our operating results, financial condition, and cash flows.. Leased Property. We lease all of the properties used in our business. We can give no assurance that we will enter into new or renewal leases, or that, if entered into, the new lease terms will be similar to the existing terms or that the terms of any such new or renewal leases will not have a significant and material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.. Failure to Recruit, Hire, and Retain Key Personnel. Our ability to achieve growth in the future will depend, in part, on our success at recruiting, hiring, training, developing and retaining highly skilled engineering, managerial, operational, sales and marketing personnel. If our salary and benefits fail to stay competitive it may negatively impact our ability to hire and retain key personnel and we may experience low morale, inefficiency or internal control failures. The inability to recruit, hire, train, develop and retain qualified personnel, or the loss of any key personnel, may make it difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective product introductions, and also limit our ability to grow and expand our business.. Transportation Costs, Tariffs, and Impact of Oil Prices. We ship products from our factories and foreign manufacturers via ocean and air transport. It is sometimes difficult to forecast swings in demand or delays in production and, as a result, products may be shipped via air which is more costly than ocean shipments. We typically cannot recover the increased cost of air freight from our customers. Additionally, tariffs and other export fees may be incurred to ship products from foreign manufacturers to the customer. The inability to predict swings in demand or delays in production may increase the cost of freight which may have a material adverse effect on our product margins.. In addition, we have an exposure to oil prices in two forms. The first is in the prices of oil-based materials in our products, which are primarily the plastics and other components that we include in our finished products. The second is in the cost of delivery and freight, which would be passed on by the carriers that we use in the form of higher rates. We record freight-in as a cost of sales and freight-out in operating expenses. Rising oil prices may have an adverse effect on cost of sales and operating expenses.. Proprietary Technologies. We produce highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including hardware, firmware, and software. Firmware and software may contain bugs that may unexpectedly interfere with product operation. There can be no assurance that our testing programs will detect all defects in individual products or defects that may affect numerous shipments. The presence of defects may harm customer satisfaction, reduce sales opportunities, or increase warranty claims and/or returns. An inability to cure or repair such a defect may result in the failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal of a product or market, damage to our reputation, increased inventory costs, or product re-engineering expenses, any of which may have a material impact on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.. Strategic Business Transactions. We may, from time to time, pursue strategic alliances, joint ventures, business acquisitions, products or technologies (\"strategic business transactions\") that complement or expand our existing operations, including those that may be material in size and scope. Strategic business transactions involve many risks, including the diversion of management's attention away from day-to-day operations. There is also the risk that we will not be able to successfully integrate the strategic business transaction with our operations, personnel, customer base, products or technologies. Such strategic business transactions may also have adverse short-term effects on our operating results, and may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, and the loss of key employees. In addition, these strategic business transactions are subject to specific accounting guidelines that may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. 19. Table of Contents. Growth Projections. Management has made projections required for the preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (\"GAAP\") regarding future events and the financial performance of the Company, including those involving:. • the benefits the Company expects as a result of the development and success of products and technologies, including new products and technologies;. • the benefits expected by conducting business in Asian and Latin American markets, without which, we may not be able to recover the costs we incur to enter into such markets;. • new contracts with new and existing customers and new market penetrations;. • the expected continued adoption of the Company's technologies in gaming consoles, mobile devices, and other home entertainment and control devices;. • the expected continued growth in digital TVs, DVRs, PVRs and overall growth in the Company's industry;. • the impact competitors and OTT providers may have on our business; and. • the effects we may experience due to current global and regional economic conditions.. Actual events or results may be unfavorable to management's projections, which may have a material adverse effect on our projected operating results, financial condition and cash flows.. Additionally, we have goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. We periodically evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that such value may not be recoverable. Impairment assessment involves judgment as to assumptions regarding future sales and cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. Future events and changing market conditions may impact our assumptions and may result in changes in our estimates of future sales and cash flows that may result in us incurring substantial impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. Market Projections and Data are Forward-looking in Nature.. Our strategy is based on our own projections and on analyst, industry observer and expert projections, which are forward-looking in nature and are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. The validity of their and our assumptions, the timing and scope of the markets within which we compete, economic conditions, customer buying patterns, the timeliness of equipment development, pricing of products, and availability of capital for infrastructure improvements may affect these predictions. In addition, market data upon which we rely is based on third party reports that may be inaccurate. The inaccuracy of any of these projections and/or market data may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Cybersecurity Issues:  Failure to Maintain the Integrity of and Protect Internal or Customer Data May Result in Faulty Business Decisions, Operational Inefficiencies, Damage to our Reputation and/or Subject Us to Costs, Fines, or Lawsuits. Our business requires collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including personally identifiable information of our customers in various information systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide services, including in areas such as customer product servicing, human resources outsourcing, website hosting, and various forms of electronic communications. We and third parties who provide services to us also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. The integrity and protection of that customer, employee, and company data, including proprietary information, is critical to us. If that data is inaccurate or incomplete, we may make faulty decisions.  Our customers and employees also have a high expectation that we and our service providers will adequately protect their personal information. The information, security and privacy requirements imposed by governmental regulation is also increasingly demanding, in both the United States and other jurisdictions where we operate. For example, the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation is considered to be one of the most stringent data privacy regulations and becomes enforceable on May 25, 2018. Our systems and those of our service providers may be unable to satisfy these changing requirements and employee and customer expectations, or may require significant additional investments or time in order to do so.. Further, proprietary information key to the development of our products is susceptible to the vulnerability of cybersecurity. Efforts to hack or breach security measures, failures of systems or software to operate as designed or intended, viruses, operator error, or inadvertent releases of data may materially impact our and our service providers' information systems and records and could disrupt our business. Our reliance on computer, Internet-based and mobile systems and communications and the frequency and sophistication of efforts by hackers to gain unauthorized access to such systems have increased significantly in recent years. A significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of customer, employee, or company data maintained by us or by a service provider could adversely impact our reputation, cause harm to our business generally, and could result in remedial and other expenses, fines, or litigation. Breaches in the security of our information systems or those of our service providers or. 20. Table of Contents. other disruptions in data services could lead to an interruption in the operation of our systems, resulting in a loss of data, operational inefficiencies and a loss of profits.. Effectiveness of Our Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to audit our internal control over financial reporting and separately report on whether it believes we maintain, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting. Although we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we cannot be certain that future material changes to our internal control over financial reporting will be effective. Additionally, in 2016 we began implementing a new global ERP system which has impacted our internal controls in 2017, primarily in the U.S., where the ERP system went live in February 2017. We continue to implement the ERP system globally and expect it to impact our control environment in Asia when the system goes live there in 2018. If we cannot adequately maintain the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. Any such action may adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock.. Our Governing Corporate Documents Contain, and Our Board of Directors May Implement, Antitakeover Provisions that May Deter Takeover Attempts. Our governing corporate documents, among other things, require super-majority votes in connection with certain mergers and similar transactions. In addition, our Board of Directors may, without stockholder approval, implement other anti-takeover defenses, such as a stockholder's rights plan.. Regulations Related to the Use of Conflict-Free Minerals May Increase Our Costs and Expenses, and an Inability to Certify that Our Products are Conflict-Free May Adversely Affect Customer Relationships. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve the transparency and accountability of the use by public companies in their products of minerals mined in certain countries and to prevent the sourcing of such \"conflict\" minerals. As a result, the SEC enacted new annual disclosure and reporting requirements for public companies that use these minerals in their products, which apply to us. Under the final rules, we are required to conduct due diligence to determine the source of any conflict minerals used in our products and to make annual disclosures in filings with the SEC. Because our supply chain is broad-based and complex, we may not be able to easily verify the origins for all minerals used in our products. In addition, the new rules may reduce the number of suppliers who provide components and products containing conflict-free minerals and thus may increase the cost of the components used in manufacturing our products and the costs of our products to us. Any increased costs and expenses may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed.. We are Subject to a Wide Variety of Complex Domestic and Foreign Laws and Regulations.. We are subject to a wide variety of complex domestic and foreign laws and regulations, and legal compliance risks, including securities laws, tax laws, employment and pension-related laws, competition laws, U.S. and foreign export and trading laws, and laws governing improper business practices. We are affected by new laws and regulations, and changes to existing laws and regulations, including interpretations by courts and regulators. From time to time, our Company, our operations and the industries in which we operate are being reviewed or investigated by regulators, which may lead to enforcement actions or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages.. Although we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs to mitigate these risks, the global and diverse nature of our operations means that compliance risks will continue to exist. Investigations, examinations and other proceedings, the nature and outcome of which cannot be predicted, will likely arise from time to time. These investigations, examinations and other proceedings may subject us to significant liability and require us to make significant accruals or pay significant settlements, fines and penalties, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition.. 21. Table of Contents. We are Required to Comply with Numerous Complex and Increasingly Stringent Domestic and Foreign Health, Safety and Environmental Laws and Regulations, the Cost of Which is Likely to Increase.. Our operations are subject to various domestic and foreign health, safety and environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations not only govern our current operations and products, but also impose potential liability on us for our past operations. We expect health, safety and environmental laws and regulations to impose increasingly stringent requirements upon our industry and us in the future. Our costs to comply with these laws and regulations may increase as these requirements become more stringent in the future, and these increased costs may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition.. Changes in Financial Accounting Standards or Policies May Affect Our Reported Financial Condition or Results of Operations.. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the \"FASB\") and the SEC change their guidance governing the form and content of our external financial statements. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret GAAP, such as the FASB and the SEC may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions with regard to how these standards should be applied. A change in accounting principles or their interpretation can have a significant effect on our reported results. In certain cases, the company may be required to apply new or revised guidance retroactively or apply existing guidance differently. For example, in May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, \"Revenue from Contracts with Customers,\" which will impact the timing of revenue recognition for certain new and existing contracts with customers beginning January 1, 2018. Additionally, in February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, \"Leases,\" which changes the accounting for leases. These and other potential changes in reporting standards may substantially change our reporting practices in a number of areas, including revenue recognition and recording of assets and liabilities, and affect our reported financial condition or results of operations."
