[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and appropriately manage our risk exposures.  Discussed below are factors that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.  Any one or more of the following factors may cause our actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company, including those in this document or made by us elsewhere, such as in earnings release investor calls, investor conference presentations, or press releases.  See \"Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" contained herein on page 1.. Sustained periods of low interest rates in the long-term investment market may adversely affect our reported net investment income and the discount rates used in reserving for our insurance products and projecting our pension obligations, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. Further declines in interest rates and/or the continuance of the current level of low interest rates and yields on fixed income investments may cause the rates of return on our investment portfolio to decrease more than expected, leading to lower net investment income than assumed in the pricing and reserving for our insurance products.  An interest, or discount, rate is used in calculating reserves for our insurance products.  We set our reserve discount rate assumptions based on our current and expected future investment yield for assets supporting the reserves, considering current and expected future market conditions.  If the discount rate assumed in our reserve calculations is higher than our future investment returns, our invested assets will not earn enough investment income to support our future claim payments.  In that case, the reserves may eventually be insufficient, resulting in the need to increase our reserves and/or increase our capital contributions to our insurance subsidiaries, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. Our net periodic benefit costs and the value of our benefit obligations for our pension plans are determined based on a set of economic and demographic assumptions that represent our best estimate of future expected experience.  Major assumptions used in accounting for these plans include the expected discount (interest) rate and the long-term rate of return on plan assets.  We set the discount rate assumption at the measurement date for each of our plans to reflect the yield of a portfolio of high quality fixed income corporate debt instruments matched against the timing and amounts of projected future benefits.  A lower discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations and increases our costs.  Our expectations for the future investment returns on plan assets are based on a combination of historical market performance, current market conditions, and future capital market assumptions obtained from external consultants and economists.  The actual rate of return on plan assets is determined based on the fair value of the plan assets at the beginning and end of the measurement period.  Increases or decreases in long-term interest rates as well as equity market volatility will impact the fair value of our plan assets and may result in a decrease in the funded status of our pension plans and/or increased pension costs, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.. See \"Reserves for Policy and Contract Benefits\" contained herein in Item 1, \"Critical Accounting Estimates\" included in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" contained herein in Item 7, \"Interest. 18. Rate Risk\" contained herein in Item 7A, and Note 9 of the \"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements\" contained herein in Item 8 for further discussion.. Actual experience may differ from our reserve assumptions which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. Historical results may not be indicative of future performance due to, among other things, changes in our mix of business, re-pricing of certain lines of business, or any number of economic cyclical effects on our business.  Reserves, whether calculated under GAAP or statutory accounting principles, do not represent an exact calculation of future benefit liabilities but are instead estimates made by us using actuarial and statistical procedures.  Actual experience may differ from our reserve assumptions.  There can be no assurance that our reserves will be sufficient to fund our future liabilities in all circumstances.  Future loss development may require reserves to be increased, which would adversely affect earnings in current and future periods.  Life expectancies may continue to increase, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives disability or long-term care benefits and could result in a change in mortality assumptions and an increase in reserves for these and other long-tailed products.  Adjustments to reserve amounts may also be required in the event of changes from the assumptions regarding future morbidity (the incidence of claims and the rate of recovery, including the effects thereon of inflation and other societal and economic factors); premium rate increases; persistency; policy benefit offsets, including those for social security and other government-based welfare benefits; and interest rates used in calculating the reserve amounts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. See \"Reserves for Policy and Contract Benefits\" contained herein in Item 1, \"Executive Summary\" and \"Critical Accounting Estimates\" included in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" contained herein in Item 7, and Notes 1 and 6 of the \"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements\" contained herein in Item 8 for further discussion.. Unfavorable economic conditions may result in lower sales, lower premium growth and persistency, higher claims incidence, and longer claims duration, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. We are affected by conditions in the capital markets and the general economy, both in the United States, the United Kingdom, and to a lesser extent, the broader global financial markets.  Negative developments in the capital markets and/or the general economy could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. In particular, factors such as unemployment levels, consumer confidence levels, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our businesses.  Given the nature of our products, in an economic environment characterized by higher unemployment, lower personal income, reduced consumer spending, and lower corporate earnings and investment, new product sales may be adversely affected.  Our premium growth may also be negatively impacted by lower premium growth from existing customers due to lower salary growth and lower growth in the number of employees covered under an existing policy.  In addition, during such periods we may experience higher claims incidence, longer claims duration, and/or an increase in policy lapses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. We and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation.  Changes in laws and regulations that affect our industry or the customers to whom we sell our products may affect the cost or demand for our products, increase capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries, and adversely affect our profitability, liquidity, or growth.. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation in the United States and abroad.  The primary purpose of insurance regulation is to protect policyholders, not stockholders.  To that end, applicable laws establish regulatory authorities, including state insurance departments in the United States and the PRA in the United Kingdom, with broad administrative powers over many aspects of the insurance business.  For example, our insurance subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations, or accreditations, or may be able to do so only at great cost.  In addition, we and our insurance subsidiaries may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and insurance holding companies.  These laws and regulations can be complex and subject to differing interpretations and are regularly re-examined.  Existing or future laws and regulations, and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations.  For example, they may restrict or prohibit the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries to us, restrict transactions between subsidiaries and/or between us and our subsidiaries, and may require contributions of capital by us to our insurance subsidiaries even if we are otherwise in compliance with stated requirements.  Failure to comply with or to obtain. 19. appropriate exemptions under any applicable laws or regulations could result in restrictions on the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which they operate and could result in fines and other sanctions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. It is possible that there will be heightened oversight of insurers by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled and operate.  We cannot predict specific proposals that might be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.  The NAIC or state regulators may adopt revisions to the RBC formula, the PRA may revise its capital adequacy requirements and minimum solvency margins, the IAIS may adopt capital requirements to which we could be subject, or rating agencies may incorporate higher capital thresholds into their quantitative analyses, thus requiring additional capital contributions by us to our insurance subsidiaries.  Increased financial services regulation, which could include activities undertaken by the NAIC and regulatory authorities in the U.K. and the EU may impose greater quantitative requirements, supervisory review, and disclosure requirements and may impact the business strategies, capital requirements, and profitability of our insurance subsidiaries.  The United Kingdom's Financial Ombudsman Service, which was established to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses providing financial services, and the FCA, which has rule-making, investigative, and enforcement powers to protect consumers, may hamper our ability to do business, which could have a material adverse effect on our U.K. operations.. We use affiliated captive reinsurers for the limited purpose of reinsuring risks attributable to specified policies issued or reinsured by our insurance subsidiaries in order to effectively manage risks in connection with certain blocks of our business as well as to enhance our capital efficiency.  If we were required to discontinue use of the captive reinsurers or to alter the structure of the captive reinsurance arrangements, our ability to maintain current RBC ratios and/or our capital deployment activities could be adversely affected.. Changes in U.S. programs such as healthcare reform and financial services sector reform may compete with or diminish the need or demand for our products, particularly as it may affect our ability to sell our products through employers or in the workplace.  The U.S. social security disability insurance program may not be sustainable, which may adversely affect the level of our disability claim payments and reserves.  Legislative changes related to pension funding requirements could negatively impact our cash flows from operations and our profitability.. Changes in tax laws and other regulations or interpretations of such laws or regulations could unfavorably impact our corporate taxes.  In addition, changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers.  Although we expect tax reform to be beneficial to our earnings and long-term cash generation, we may experience some further pressure on our RBC ratios as a result of expected NAIC revisions to the RBC calculations to consider the lower U.S. statutory income tax rate.  We expect our insurance subsidiaries to generate stronger statutory earnings.  The level of excess capital generation is dependent on the timing and magnitude of these NAIC changes and the extent to which and how quickly the rating agencies will expect the industry to rebuild its RBC ratio levels.. During 2016, the U.K. held a referendum and voted to leave the EU.  The U.K. subsequently invoked Article 50 of the Treaty on the European Union and is due to leave the EU on March 29, 2019.  We may see some continued dampening of growth in the U.K. due to the current disruption and uncertainty in the U.K. economy.  We may experience volatility in the fair values of our investments in U.K. and EU-based issuers, but we do not expect a material increase in other-than-temporary impairments or defaults, nor do we believe this volatility will impact our ability to hold these investments.  The magnitude and longevity of potential negative economic impacts on our growth will depend on the agreements reached by the U.K. and EU as a result of exit negotiations and the resulting response of the U.K. marketplace.  There are currently no indications that capital requirements for our U.K. operations will change, but economic conditions may cause volatility in our solvency ratios.  Our reported consolidated financial results may continue to be unfavorably impacted by the weakening of the British pound sterling relative to preceding periods.. Dodd-Frank directs various government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, an ongoing process that continues to develop.  As a result of the regulations implemented thus far, regulations directed at some derivative activities and the implementation of central clearing rules have increased the cost of some hedging activities primarily as a result of more restrictive collateral requirements.  We cannot predict the requirements of the remaining regulations that might ultimately be adopted, whether existing requirements will be repealed or changed, or how or whether such regulations will affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition, require us to raise additional capital, or result in a downgrade of our credit ratings.. Most group long-term and short-term disability plans we administer are governed by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA).  Changes to ERISA enacted by Congress or through judicial interpretations may adversely affect the risk to us of. 20. managing employee benefit plans, increase the premiums associated with such plans, and ultimately affect their affordability and our profitability.. The insurance departments in jurisdictions wherein our insurance subsidiaries conduct business may limit our ability to obtain rate increases under guaranteed renewable contracts or could require changes in rates and/or benefits to meet minimum loss ratio requirements which could negatively impact the profitability of our products.  Many regulatory and governmental bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees.  These regulatory or governmental bodies may bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices are improper.  These actions could result in substantial fines or restrictions on our business activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. Regulatory examinations or investigations could result in, among other things, changes in our claims handling or other business practices, changes in procedures for the identification and payment to the states of benefits and other property that is not claimed by the owners, changes in the use and oversight of reinsurance, increases to reserving requirements, changes in governance and other oversight procedures, assessments by tax authorities or other governing agencies, fines, and other administrative action, which could injure our reputation, adversely affect our issuer credit ratings and financial strength ratings, place us at a competitive disadvantage in marketing or administering our products, impair our ability to sell or retain insurance policies, and/or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.  Determination by regulatory authorities that we have engaged in improper conduct may also adversely affect our defense of various lawsuits.. See \"Regulation\" contained herein in Item 1 and Notes 7 and 14 of the \"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements\" contained herein in Item 8 for further discussion.. In addition to interest rate risk as previously discussed, we are exposed to other risks related to our investment portfolio which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.. Default Risk. Our investment portfolio consists primarily of fixed maturity securities.  These securities are issued by both domestic and foreign entities and are backed either by collateral or the credit of the underlying issuer.  Factors such as an economic downturn or political change in the country of the issuer, a regulatory change pertaining to the issuer's industry, a significant deterioration in the cash flows of the issuer, unforeseen accounting irregularities or fraud committed by the issuer, widening risk spreads, ratings downgrades, a change in the issuer's marketplace or business prospects, or other events that adversely affect the issuers of these securities may result in the issuer defaulting on its obligations.. Our mortgage loan portfolio has default risk.  Events or developments, such as economic conditions that impact the ability of tenants to pay their rents or limit the availability of refinancing, may have a negative effect on our mortgage loan portfolio.  Events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on an investment portfolio to the extent that the portfolio is concentrated in that region or sector.. A default results in the recognition of an impairment loss on the investment.  A default may also adversely affect our ability to collect principal and interest due to us.  The probability of credit downgrades and defaults increases when the fixed income markets experience periods of volatility and illiquidity.. Credit Spread Risk. Our exposure to credit spreads, which is the yield above comparable U.S. Treasury securities, primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads.  A widening of credit spreads may unfavorably impact the net unrealized gain or loss position of the investment portfolio and may adversely impact liquidity.  Credit spread tightening may reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed income securities.. Valuation Risk. We report our fixed maturity securities and certain other financial instruments at fair value.  Valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation, particularly during periods of market disruption, resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may ultimately be sold.  Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported in our. 21. financial statements, and the period to period changes in value could vary significantly.  Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. We evaluate our investment portfolio for impairments.  There can be no assurance that we have accurately assessed the level of impairments taken.  Additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, and historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments.  Any event reducing the value of our securities other than on a temporary basis may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.. Market Timing and Liquidity Risk. While we attempt to match our asset cash flows and durations with expected liability cash flows and durations to meet the funding requirements of our business, there may at times be a lack of appropriate investments in the market which can be acquired.  In addition, we may, in certain circumstances, need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs.  There may also be a limited market for certain of our investments, such as our private placement fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, and policy loans, which makes them more illiquid.  In periods of market volatility or disruption, other of our securities may also experience reduced liquidity.  If events occur wherein we need to sell securities in an unfavorable interest rate or credit environment or need to quickly sell securities which are illiquid, market prices may be lower than what we might realize under normal circumstances, with a resulting adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.. See \"Critical Accounting Estimates\" included in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" contained herein in Item 7 and Notes 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the \"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements\" contained herein in Item 8 for further discussion of our investments and derivatives.. A cyber attack or other security breach could disrupt our operations, result in the unauthorized disclosure or loss of confidential data, damage our reputation or relationships, and expose us to significant financial and legal liability, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.. We store confidential policyholder and employee information and other proprietary information on our information technology systems as a part of our normal business operations.  Although we devote significant resources to maintain security systems and implement measures to protect our information technology systems and the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information retained on them, and to date have not experienced a material breach of cybersecurity, there is no assurance that these systems and measures will be sufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber attacks, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering.  We have contractual and governance safeguards in place with our third-party outsourcing partners and cloud computing providers to manage security as part of the service they deliver to us, but these measures may not prevent attackers from exploiting weaknesses in their networks to access, misappropriate, alter, or delete our data.  Threats to our systems or those of third-party providers may originate externally, such as from cyber criminals or other hackers, or internally from within our company, such as from employee error or malfeasance.  In some cases, especially because the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, we may be unaware of emerging threats and the magnitude of their effects, or we may not become aware of an unauthorized data disclosure incident for some time after it occurs, which could increase our exposure.  As we increase the amount of information that we retain and that we share with third parties, our exposure to data security and related cybersecurity risks increases.. A successful penetration or circumvention of the security of our information systems could cause serious negative consequences for us, including significant disruption of our operations, the loss or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information retained on those systems, harm to our reputation, decreased levels of customer service or satisfaction, violations of applicable privacy or other laws, and exposure to litigation or enforcement proceedings.. While we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides coverage for network security, privacy liability, technology errors and omissions, media liability, first party network business interruption, and electronic restoration (which includes coverage for credit monitoring, notification costs, regulatory expense, and investigative expense), our insurance may not provide adequate loss coverage in all circumstances.. 22. The failure of our business recovery and incident management processes to resume our business operations in the event of a natural catastrophe, cyber attack, or other event could adversely affect our profitability, results of operations, or financial condition.. In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an epidemic, a cyber attack, cyber security breach or other information technology systems failure, a terrorist attack, or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those problems affect our information technology systems and destroy valuable data.  In addition, in the event that a significant number of our employees were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised.. The failure of our information technology and/or disaster recovery systems for any reason could cause significant interruptions or malfunctions in our or our customers' operations and result in the loss, theft, or failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers.  Such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions, legal claims, and increased expenses, and lead to a loss of customers and revenues.. The failure to effectively execute upgrades to or replacements of information technology systems could adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.. We rely heavily on the effective operation of our information technology systems to administer our business.  Although we believe we have information technology systems which adequately support our business needs, we continually upgrade our existing information technology systems and acquire or develop new systems to keep pace with the rapidly changing business and technology environment.  There are risks involved with upgrading or replacing information technology systems, including, but not limited to, data loss, data errors, and disruption to our operations.  We seek to monitor and control our exposure to the risks arising out of these activities through our risk control framework which encompasses a variety of reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes, and other mechanisms.. Competition may adversely affect our market share or profitability.. All of our businesses are highly competitive.  We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are price, the quality of our customer's experience regarding service and claims management, integrated product choices, enrollment capabilities, financial strength, and claims-paying ratings.  We compete for new product sales, the retention of existing business, and the ability to attract and retain independent agents and brokers to market our products, all of which affect our profitability.  All areas of the employee benefits markets are highly competitive due to the yearly renewable term nature of the group products and the large number of insurance companies offering products in this market.  There is a risk that purchasers of employee benefits products may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors in lieu of renewing coverage with us, particularly if industry pricing levels do not align with our view of adequate premium rates.  We are operating in a dynamic competitive environment of both traditional and non-traditional competitors, with changes in product offerings, enrollment capabilities, and technology solutions.  The level and intensity of competition may also grow due to existing competitors becoming more aggressive, and an increase in merger and acquisition activity which may result in larger competitors with greater financial resources.  There are many insurance companies which actively compete with us in our lines of business, and there is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against these companies and new competitors in the future.  See \"Competition\" contained herein in Item 1 for further discussion.. A decrease in our financial strength or issuer credit ratings may adversely affect our competitive position, our ability to hedge our risks, and our cost of capital or ability to raise capital, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.. We compete based in part on the financial strength ratings provided by rating agencies.  A downgrade of our financial strength ratings may adversely affect us and could potentially, among other things, adversely affect our relationships with distributors of our products and services and retention of our sales force, negatively impact persistency and new sales, and generally adversely affect our ability to compete.  A downgrade in the issuer credit rating assigned to Unum Group can be expected to adversely affect our cost of capital and our ability to raise additional capital.  If we are downgraded significantly, ratings triggers in our derivatives financial instrument contracts may result in our counterparties enforcing their option to terminate the derivative contracts.  Such an event may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our ability to hedge our risks.  It is unclear how rating agencies will view the impact to RBC as a result of the TCJA and there is a potential that rating agencies may require additional capital for tax reform RBC impacts in order to maintain credit ratings.. 23. See \"Ratings\" contained herein in Item 1 and in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" contained herein in Item 7 for further discussion.. Events that damage our reputation may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.. There are many events which may harm our reputation, including, but not limited to, those discussed in this Item 1A regarding regulatory investigations, legal proceedings, and cyber or other information security incidents.. In addition, as an insurance company, we are paid to accept certain risks.  Those who conduct our business, including executive officers and members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, and to some extent, independent agents and brokers, do so in part by making decisions that involve exposing us to risk.  These include decisions such as maintaining effective underwriting and pricing discipline, maintaining effective claim management and customer service performance, managing our investment portfolio and derivatives trading activities, delivering effective technology solutions, complying with established sales practices, executing our capital management strategy, exiting a line of business and/or pursuing strategic growth initiatives, and other decisions.  Although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks or unintentionally failing to comply with internal policies and practices such that errors occur, there can be no assurance that these controls and procedures will be effective.  If our employees and business associates take excessive risks and/or fail to comply with internal policies and practices, the impact of those events may damage our market position and reputation.. Depending on the severity of the damage to our reputation, we may be unable to effectively compete for new products or retain our existing business, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.  Damage to our reputation may also hinder our ability to raise new capital and/or increase our cost of capital.  See \"Regulation\" contained herein in Item 1 and Note 14 of the \"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements\" contained herein in Item 8 for additional information on regulatory matters and legal proceedings.. We provide a broad array of disability, long-term care, group life, and voluntary insurance products that are affected by many factors, and changes in any of those factors may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.. Disability Insurance. Disability insurance may be affected by a number of social, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors.  Changes in societal attitudes, such as work ethic, motivation, or stability, can significantly affect the demand for and underwriting results from disability products.. Both economic and societal factors can affect claim incidence and recoveries for disability insurance.  Claim incidence and claim recovery rates may be influenced by, among other factors, the rate of unemployment and consumer confidence.  Claim incidence and claim recovery rates may also be influenced by the emergence of new infectious diseases or illnesses.  Claim durations may be extended by medical improvements which could extend life expectancies.  The relationship between these and other factors and overall incidence is very complex and will vary due to contract design features and the degree of expertise within the insuring organization to price, underwrite, and adjudicate the claims.. Within the group disability market, pricing and renewal actions can be taken to react to higher claim rates.  However, these actions take time to implement, and there is a risk that the market will not sustain increased prices.  In addition, changes in economic and external conditions may not manifest themselves in claims experience for an extended period of time.  The pricing actions available in the individual disability market differ among product classes.  Our individual noncancelable disability policies, in which the policy is guaranteed to be renewable through the life of the policy at a fixed premium, do not permit us to adjust premiums on our in-force business.  Guaranteed renewable contracts that are not noncancelable can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as in the group disability market.. Long-term Care Insurance. Long-term care insurance can be affected by a number of demographic, medical, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors.  Because long-term care insurance is a relatively new product for the insurance industry and is long-duration in nature, there is not as much historical data as is available for our other products.  This creates a level of uncertainty in properly pricing the product and using appropriate assumptions when establishing reserves.  Long-term care insurance is guaranteed renewable and can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but the re-pricing is subject to regulatory approval by our states of. 24. domicile and may also be subject to approval by jurisdictions in which our policyholders reside.  The rate approval process can affect the length of time in which the re-pricing can be implemented, if at all, and the rate increases ultimately approved may be favorable or unfavorable relative to assumptions used to establish our reserves.  We monitor our own experience and industry studies concerning morbidity, mortality, and policyholder terminations to understand emerging trends.  Changes in actual experience relative to our expectations may adversely affect our profitability and reserves.  Mortality continues to improve for the general population, and life expectancy has increased, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives long-term care benefits and may subject more policyholders to advanced aging and an associated increase in claims incidence.  Medical advances may continue to have an impact on claim incidence and duration, both favorable and unfavorable.  Due to the long duration of the product, the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows are difficult to match to those of our maturing liabilities.  Sustained periods of low or declining interest rates could result in increases in reserves and adversely affect our results of operations.. Group Life Insurance. Group life insurance may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the amount of insurance employees may elect voluntarily, our risk selection process, our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics, the geographical concentration of employees, and mortality rates.  Claim incidence may also be influenced by unexpected catastrophic events such as terrorist attacks, natural disasters, and pandemic health events, which may also affect the cost of and availability of reinsurance coverage.. Voluntary Products. Voluntary products sold in the workplace may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the level of employee participation and the amount of insurance the employees elect, our risk selection process, and our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics.  Our voluntary life insurance products generally include interest sensitive forms of insurance which contain a guaranteed minimum interest crediting rate.  It is possible that our investment returns could be lower than the guaranteed crediting rate.  The non-life contracts are guaranteed renewable and can be repriced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as for group disability and group life products.. See \"Reserves for Policy and Contract Benefits\" contained herein in Item 1 and \"Executive Summary\" and \"Critical Accounting Estimates\" included in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" contained herein in Item 7 for further discussion.. Changes in accounting standards may materially affect our financial statements.. Our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles, in both the United States and the United Kingdom, which are periodically revised and/or expanded.  Accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the U.K. Accounting Standards Board (ASB), and the NAIC.  Accounting standards issued by the FASB and ASB may be influenced by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).  These authoritative bodies have several ongoing projects regarding accounting standards that will likely be issued in the near future.  Future accounting standards we adopt will change current accounting and disclosure requirements applicable to our financial statements.  Such changes may have a material effect on our reported results of operations or financial condition.. Our risk management program may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business.. We have devoted significant resources to develop our enterprise risk management program, which has the objective of managing our strategic, market, credit, insurance, and operations risks, which ultimately impact our reputational risk.  However, our program may not be comprehensive, and our methods for monitoring and managing risk may not fully predict or mitigate future exposures.  See \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk\" contained herein in Item 7A for further information about our risk management program.. 25. Litigation and contingencies are common in our businesses and may result in financial losses and/or harm to our reputation.. We are, and in the future may be, defendants in a number of litigation matters, and the outcome of this litigation is uncertain.  Some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants.  Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages.  An estimated loss is accrued when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.  An adverse outcome in one or more of these actions may, depending on the nature, scope and amount of the ruling, materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, encourage other litigation, and limit our ability to write new business, particularly if the adverse outcomes negatively impact certain of our ratings.. As part of our normal operations in managing claims, we are engaged in claim litigation where disputes arise as a result of a denial or termination of benefits.  Typically those lawsuits are filed on behalf of a single claimant or policyholder, and in some of these individual actions punitive damages are sought, such as claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims.  For our general claim litigation, we maintain reserves based on experience to satisfy judgments and settlements in the normal course.  We expect that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to general claim litigation, after consideration of the reserves maintained, will not be material to our financial condition.  Nevertheless, given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain claim litigation involving punitive damages may, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  We are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible punitive losses.. See \"Critical Accounting Estimates\" included in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" contained herein in Item 7 and Note 14 of the \"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements\" contained herein in Item 8 for additional information on legal proceedings.. Reinsurance may not be available or affordable, or reinsurers may be unwilling or unable to meet their obligations under our reinsurance contracts, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. As part of our overall risk management and capital management strategies, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various businesses.  Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of reinsurance.  Any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and may impact the level of capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries, and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our results of operations.  Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which may adversely affect our ability to write future business, result in the assumption of more risk with respect to the policies we issue, and increase our capital requirements.  The collectibility of our reinsurance recoverable is primarily a function of the solvency of the individual reinsurers.  We cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis.  The insolvency of a reinsurer or the inability or unwillingness of a reinsurer to comply with the terms of a reinsurance contract may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. The effectiveness of our hedging programs may be affected by changes in the economic environment, changes in interest rates, capital market volatility, non-performance by our counterparties, changes in the level of required collateral, or regulation, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.. We use derivative financial instruments to help us manage certain risks related to our business operations, primarily interest rate risk, risk related to matching duration for our assets and liabilities, and foreign currency risk.  Factors associated with derivative financial instruments could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.  Ineffectiveness of our hedges due to changes in expected future events, such as the risk created by uncertainty in the economic environment or if our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.  Capital market turmoil may result in an increase in the risk of non-performance by our counterparties, many of which are financial institutions.  Non-performance by our counterparties may force us to unwind hedges, and we may be unable to replace the hedge, thereby leaving the risk unhedged.  Under the terms of our hedging contracts, we are required to post collateral and to maintain a certain level of collateral, which may adversely affect our liquidity and could subject us to the credit risk of the counterparty to the extent it holds such collateral.  Changes in regulations may have an adverse effect on our ability to execute hedging strategies due to the increased economic cost of derivatives, primarily as a result of more restrictive collateral requirements.. 26. Currency translation could materially impact our reported operating results.. The functional currency of our U.K. operations is the British pound sterling.  Fluctuations in the pound to dollar exchange rate have an effect on our reported financial results.  Our reported consolidated financial results may continue to be unfavorably impacted by the weakening of the British pound sterling.  However, it is important to distinguish between translating and converting foreign currency.  Except for a limited number of transactions, we do not actually convert pounds into dollars.  As a result, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting item and not a reflection of operations or profitability in the U.K.. Unum Group depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer funds to it so that it can meet its obligations and pay dividends.  Our ability to transfer funds to Unum Group may be impaired by adverse financial results or a change in capital requirements.  Accordingly, internal sources of capital and liquidity may not always be sufficient.  If we need to seek external capital, adverse market conditions may affect our access to capital or our cost of capital.. Unum Group is a holding company for insurance and other subsidiaries and has no significant operations of its own.  Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to insurance laws and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds or other assets to affiliates, including to Unum Group.  The level of earnings and capital in our subsidiaries, as well as business conditions and rating agency considerations, could impact our insurance and other subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or to make other transfers of funds to Unum Group, which could impair our ability to pay dividends to Unum Group's common stockholders, meet our debt and other payment obligations, and/or repurchase shares of Unum Group's common stock.  The use of funds held by Unum Group as consideration in any acquisition could affect our capital plan and render those funds unavailable for other corporate purposes.. A change in demand for our insurance products or an increase in the incidence of new claims or the duration of existing claims could negatively impact our cash flows from operations.  Deterioration in the credit market, which could delay our ability to sell our positions in certain of our fixed maturity securities in a timely manner, could also negatively impact our cash flows.  Regulatory changes such as those discussed herein in this Item 1A may impose higher capital or reserve requirements on our insurance subsidiaries, increase collateral requirements for certain of our derivatives transactions, and/or implement other requirements which could unfavorably affect our liquidity.  Without sufficient liquidity, our ability to maintain and grow our operations would be limited.  If our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, we may be unable to successfully obtain additional financing and capital on favorable terms, or at all, which may adversely affect us.. If our financial results are unfavorable, we may need to increase our capital in order to maintain our credit ratings or satisfy regulatory requirements.  Maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus is considered important not only by us but by insurance regulatory authorities in the U.S., the PRA in the U.K., and the rating agencies that rate insurers' claims-paying abilities and financial strength.  Failure to maintain certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, action by regulatory authorities, or a downgrade by the rating agencies.  Need for additional capital may limit a subsidiary's ability to distribute funds to our holding companies.. Obtaining financing for even a small amount of capital could be challenging in unfavorable market conditions and during periods of economic uncertainty.  The markets may exert downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers.  The availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our financial prospects.  Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us.  Raising capital in unfavorable market conditions could increase our interest expense or negatively impact our shareholders through increased dilution of their common stock in Unum Group.. We rely on our credit facility as a potential source of liquidity.  Our right to borrow funds under this facility is subject to financial covenants, negative covenants, and events of default.  Our ability to borrow under this facility is also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the lenders to provide funds.  Our failure to comply with the covenants in the credit facility or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments would restrict our ability to access this facility when needed, with a resulting adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.. See \"Regulation\" contained herein in Item 1,\"Liquidity and Capital Resources\" included in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" contained herein in Item 7, and Notes 8 and 15 of the \"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements\" contained herein in Item 8 for further discussion.. 27. We have assets which may not be fully recoverable or realizable, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. If our business does not perform well or as initially anticipated in our assumptions, we may be required to accelerate amortization or recognize an impairment loss on intangible assets or long-lived assets or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset.. We have intangible assets such as deferred acquisition costs (DAC), value of business acquired (VOBA), and goodwill.  DAC and VOBA are amortized based primarily upon expected future premium income of the related insurance policies.  Recoverability testing for DAC and VOBA is performed on an annual basis.  Insurance contracts are grouped on a basis consistent with our manner of acquiring, servicing, and measuring profitability of the contracts.  If recoverability testing indicates that either DAC and/or VOBA are not recoverable, the deficiency is charged to expense.. Goodwill is not amortized, but on an annual basis, or more frequently if necessary, we review the carrying amount of goodwill for indications of impairment, considering in that review the financial performance and other relevant factors.  In accordance with accounting guidance, we test for impairment at either the operating segment level or one level below.  In addition, certain events including, but not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business environment, an adverse action by a regulator or rating agency, or unanticipated competition would cause us to review goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually.. Long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate and information technology software, also require impairment testing to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that we may be unable to recover the carrying amount.. We assess our deferred tax assets to determine if they are realizable.  Factors in our determination include the performance of the business, including the ability to generate future taxable income.  If based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, a valuation allowance is established with a corresponding charge to net income.. Charges such as accelerated amortization, impairment losses, or the establishment of valuation allowances could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. See \"Executive Summary\" and \"Critical Accounting Estimates\" included in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" contained herein in Item 7 and Notes 1, 7, and 13 of the \"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements\" contained herein in Item 8.. The continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the value of certain assets in our investment portfolio, disrupt our operations, or result in higher claim costs.. The continued threat of terrorism, both within the U.S. and abroad, ongoing military actions, and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in the global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, business disruption, and reduced economic activity.  Some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism.  Terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the U.S. or abroad.  In addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated.  Beyond obtaining insurance coverage for our facilities, there are few, if any, commercial options through which to transfer the exposure from extreme events away from us.  We purchase reinsurance protection against catastrophic disaster events, including terrorism.  The continued threat of terrorism could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices.  See \"Reinsurance\" contained herein in Item 1 for further discussion.. 28"
