[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risks and other material in this information statement in evaluating the Company and our common shares. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. These risks have been separated into three groups: (1) Risks Related to Our Business and Operations and to Our Status as a REIT, (2) Risks Related to Our Common Shares and (3) Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS AND TO OUR STATUS AS A REIT. Factors that may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition are summarized below. The risks and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial, may also adversely affect our business. See \"Forward-Looking Statements\" contained herein.. There are inherent risks associated with real estate investments and the real estate industry, particularly retail real estate, each of which could have an adverse impact on our financial performance and the value of our properties.. Real estate investments are subject to various risks, many of which are beyond our control. Our operating and financial performance and the value of our properties can be affected by many of these risks, including, but not limited to, the following:. • the convenience and quality of competing retail properties and other retailing platforms such as e-commerce;. • local real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of retail space or a reduction in demand for retail space, resulting in vacancies or compromising our ability to rent space on favorable terms;. • adverse changes in the financial condition of tenants at our properties, including financial difficulties, lease defaults or bankruptcies;. • national, regional and local economies, which may be negatively impacted by inflation, deflation, government deficits, high unemployment rates, severe weather or other natural disasters, decreased consumer confidence, industry slowdowns, reduced corporate profits, lack of liquidity and other adverse business conditions;. • civil unrest, acts of war, terrorist attacks and natural or man-made disasters, including seismic activity and floods, which may result in uninsured and underinsured losses;. • changes in the enforcement of laws, regulations and governmental policies, including, without limitation, health, safety, environmental, zoning and tax laws, government fiscal policies and the Americans with Disabilities Act (\"ADA\");. • the illiquid nature of real estate investments, which may limit our ability to sell properties at the terms desired or at terms favorable to us;. • competition for investment opportunities from other real estate investors with significant capital, including other REITs, real estate operating companies and institutional investment funds; and. • fluctuations in interest rates and the availability and cost of financing, which could adversely affect our ability and the ability of potential buyers and tenants of our properties, to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all.. During a period of economic slowdown or recession, or the public perception that such a period may occur, declining demand for real estate could result in a general decline in rents or an increased incidence of defaults among our existing tenants, and, consequently, our properties may fail to generate revenues sufficient to meet operating, debt service and other expenses. As a result, we may have to borrow funds to cover fixed costs, and our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. As such, the market price of our common shares, and our ability to service debt obligations and pay dividends and other distributions to security holders could be adversely affected.. E-commerce may have an adverse impact on our tenants and our business.. E-commerce continues to gain in popularity and growth in internet sales is likely to continue in the future. E-commerce could result in a downturn in the business of some of our current tenants and could affect the way other current and future tenants lease space. For example, the migration towards e-commerce has led many omnichannel retailers to prune the number and size of their traditional \"brick and mortar\" locations to increasingly rely on e-commerce and alternative distribution channels. Many tenants also permit merchandise purchased on their websites to be picked up at, or returned to, their physical store locations, which may have the effect of decreasing the reported amount of their in-store sales and the amount of rent we are able to collect from them (particularly with respect to those tenants who pay rent based on a percentage of their in-store sales). We cannot predict with certainty how growth in e-commerce will impact the demand for space at our properties or how much revenue will be generated at traditional store locations in the future. If the shift towards e-commerce causes declines in the \"brick and mortar\" sales generated. 4. by our tenants and/or causes our tenants to reduce the size or number of their retail locations in the future, our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Retail real estate is a competitive business.. Competition in the retail real estate industry is intense. We compete with a large number of public and private retail real estate companies, including property owners and developers. We compete with these companies to attract customers to our properties, as well as to attract anchor, non-anchor and other tenants. We also compete with these companies for development, redevelopment and acquisition opportunities. Other owners and developers may attempt to take existing tenants from our shopping centers by offering lower rents or other incentives to compel them to relocate. This competition could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease space and on the amount of rent and expense reimbursements that we receive.. We depend on leasing space to tenants on economically favorable terms and on collecting rent from tenants who ultimately may not be able to pay.. Our financial results depend significantly on leasing space in our properties to tenants on economically favorable terms. A majority of our income depends on the ability of our tenants to pay the full amount of rent and other charges due under their leases on a timely basis. Some of our leases provide for the payment, in addition to base rent, of additional rent above the base amount according to a specified percentage of the gross sales generated by the tenants and generally provide for reimbursement of real estate taxes and expenses of operating the property. Economic and/or competitive conditions may impact the success of our tenants' retail operations and therefore the amount of rent and expense reimbursements we receive from our tenants. While demand for our retail spaces has been strong, there can be no assurance in our ability to maintain our occupancy levels on favorable terms. Any reduction in our tenants' abilities to pay base rent, percentage rent or other charges on a timely basis will decrease our income, funds available to pay indebtedness and funds available for distribution to shareholders. If a tenant does not pay its rent, we might not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and might incur substantial legal and other costs. During periods of economic adversity, there may be an increase in the number of tenants that cannot pay their rent and an increase in vacancy rates, which could materially and adversely affect our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire.. When our tenants decide not to renew their leases upon their expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. Properties that accounted for approximately 5.1% of our annualized base rent for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 were vacant as of December 31, 2017, excluding leases signed but not commenced. In addition, leases accounting for approximately 16% of our annualized base rent for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 are scheduled to expire within the next three years. Even if tenants do renew or we can relet the space, the terms of the renewal or reletting, taking into account among other things, the cost of improvements to the property and leasing commissions, may be less favorable than the terms in the expired leases. In addition, changes in space utilization by our tenants may impact our ability to renew or relet space without the need to incur substantial costs in renovating or redesigning the internal configuration of the relevant property. If we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the space at similar rates or if we incur substantial costs in renewing or reletting the space, our cash flow and ability to service debt obligations and pay dividends and other distributions to security holders could be adversely affected.. Bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants may decrease our revenues, net income and available cash.. From time to time, some of our tenants have declared bankruptcy and other tenants may declare bankruptcy or become insolvent in the future. For example, in September 2017, Toys \"R\" Us, Inc. (\"Toys \"R\" Us\"), filed a voluntary petition under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. As of December 31, 2017, we had leases with Toys \"R\" Us at nine locations with annualized base rent of $5.0 million. Additionally, Sears Holding Corporation and Staples, Inc. represent 2.0% and 1.5%, respectively, of our annualized base rent and each continued to close stores in 2017. Tenants who file bankruptcy have the legal right to reject any or all of their leases and close related stores. In the event that a tenant with a significant number of leases in our properties files bankruptcy and rejects its leases, we could experience a significant reduction in our revenues and we may not be able to collect all pre-petition amounts owed by that party, which may adversely affect our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant at one of our properties could also negatively impact our ability to lease other existing or future vacancies in the property. In addition, our leases generally do not contain restrictions designed to ensure the ongoing creditworthiness of our tenants. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could result in a lower level of net income, which may adversely affect our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations and decrease funds available to pay our indebtedness or make distributions to shareholders. See Part I, Item 2. \"Properties\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. 5. A significant number of our properties are located in the New York metropolitan area and are affected by the economic cycles there.. Because a significant number of our properties are located in the New York metropolitan area, we are particularly susceptible to adverse economic and other developments in that area. Notably, as of December 31, 2017, two of our New York metropolitan area properties in the aggregate generated in excess of 15% of our annualized base rent (The Outlets at Bergen Town Center and Tonnelle Commons in New Jersey). Collectively, our New York metropolitan area properties in the aggregate generated in excess of 70% of our annualized base rent as of December 31, 2017. Real estate markets are subject to economic downturns and we cannot predict the economic conditions in the New York metropolitan area in either the short-term or long-term. Poor economic or market conditions in the New York metropolitan area, may adversely affect our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks related to Puerto Rico.. Our two malls in Puerto Rico make up approximately 10% of our Net Operating Income. Puerto Rico faces significant fiscal and economic challenges, including its government filing for bankruptcy protection in 2017. In addition, Hurricanes Irma and Maria placed significant, lasting stress on the island's already strained economy and infrastructure. These factors have led to an ongoing emigration trend of Puerto Rico residents to the United States and elsewhere. The combination of these circumstances could result in less disposable income for the purchase of goods sold in our centers and the inability of merchants to pay rent and other charges. Any of these events could negatively impact our ability to lease space on terms and conditions we seek and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As of December 31, 2017, the Company has individual, non-resource mortgages on each of its Puerto Rico properties as follows: a $116.2 million mortgage, comprised of a senior and junior loan, maturing in July 2021 secured by Montehiedra Town Center and a $130.0 million mortgage maturing in August 2024 secured by the Las Catalinas Mall.. Natural disasters could have a concentrated impact on us.. We own properties near the Atlantic Coast and in Puerto Rico which are subject to natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods and storm surges. We also have four properties in California that could be impacted by earthquakes. As a result, we could become subject to business interruption, significant losses and repair costs, such as those we experienced from Hurricane Maria, which damaged and caused the temporary closure of our two properties in Puerto Rico. The Company maintains comprehensive, all-risk property and rental value insurance coverage on our properties, however losses resulting from a natural disaster may be subject to a deductible or not fully covered and such losses could adversely affect our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations.. Some of our properties depend on anchor or major tenants and decisions made by these tenants, or adverse developments in the businesses of these tenants, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Some of our properties have anchor or major tenants that generally occupy larger spaces, sometimes pay a significant portion of a property's total rent and often contribute to the success of other tenants by drawing customers to a property. If an anchor or major tenant closes, such closure could adversely affect the property even if the tenant continues to pay rent due to the loss of the anchor or major tenant's drawing power. Additionally, closure of an anchor or major tenant could result in lease terminations by, or reductions in rent from, other tenants if the other tenants' leases have co-tenancy clauses that permit cancellation or rent reduction if an anchor tenant closes. Retailer consolidation, store rationalization, competition from internet sales and general economic conditions may decrease the number of potential tenants available to fill available anchor tenant spaces. As a result, in the event one or more anchor tenants were to leave one or more of our centers, we cannot be sure that we would be able to lease the vacant space on equivalent terms or at all. In addition, we may not be able to recover costs owed to us by the closed tenant. In certain cases, some anchor and non-anchor tenants may be able to terminate their leases if they do not achieve defined sales levels.. Development, redevelopment, and acquisition activities have inherent risks, which could adversely impact our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations.. We may develop, redevelop or acquire properties when we believe that a development, redevelopment or acquisition project is consistent with our business strategy. As of December 31, 2017, we had 14 properties in our redevelopment project pipeline and 15 active redevelopment projects. We have invested a total of approximately $90.6 million in our active projects, which are at various stages of completion, and based on our current plans and estimates, we anticipate it will cost an additional $104.9 million to complete our active projects. Our 14 total pipeline projects are estimated to cost $108 - 123 million. We anticipate engaging in additional redevelopment and development activities in the future. In addition to the risks associated with real estate investments in general as described elsewhere, the risks associated with future development, and redevelopment activities include:. • expenditure of capital and time on projects that may never be completed;. • failure or inability to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all;. • inability to secure necessary zoning or regulatory approvals;. 6. • higher than estimated construction or operating costs, including labor and material costs;. • inability to complete construction on schedule due to a number of factors, including inclement weather, labor disruptions, construction delays, delays or failure to receive zoning or other regulatory approvals, acts of terror or other acts of violence, or natural disasters (such as fires, seismic activity or floods);. • significant time lag between commencement and stabilization resulting in delayed returns and greater risks due to fluctuations in the general economy, shifts in demographics and competition;. • decrease in customer traffic during the redevelopment period causing a decrease in tenant sales;. • inability to secure key anchor or other tenants at anticipated pace of lease-up or at all; and. • occupancy and rental rates at a newly completed project that may not meet expectations.. If any of the above events were to occur, the development, redevelopment or acquisition of the properties may hinder our growth and may have an adverse effect on our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. If we choose to pursue acquisitions in new markets or acquire assets that contain non-retail uses where we do not have the same level of market knowledge, it may result in weaker than anticipated performance. In addition, new development and significant redevelopment or acquisition activities, regardless of whether they are ultimately successful, typically require substantial time and attention from management.. We may be unable to complete acquisitions and even if acquisitions are completed, our operating results at acquired properties may not meet our financial expectations.. We continue to evaluate the market of available properties and expect to continue to acquire properties when we believe strategic opportunities exist. Our ability to acquire properties on favorable terms and successfully operate or develop them is subject to the following risks:. • we may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other real estate investors with substantial capital, including other REITs, real estate operating companies and institutional investment funds;. • even if we are able to acquire a desired property, competition from other potential acquirers may significantly increase the purchase price;. • we may incur significant costs and divert management attention in connection with the evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions, including ones that are subsequently not completed;. • we may be unable to finance acquisitions on favorable terms and in the time period we desire, or at all;. • we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly the acquisition of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations;. • we may acquire properties that are not initially accretive to our results upon acquisition, and we may not successfully manage and lease those properties to meet our expectations; and. • we may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse to former owners, with respect to unknown liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by tenants or other persons to former owners of the properties and claims for indemnification by general partners, trustees, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties.. If we are unable to acquire properties on favorable terms, obtain financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms, or operate acquired properties to meet our financial expectations, our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. It may be difficult to dispose of real estate quickly, which may limit our flexibility.. Real estate investments are relatively difficult to dispose of quickly. Consequently, we may have limited ability to promptly change our portfolio in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Moreover, our ability to dispose of, or finance real estate assets may be materially and adversely affected during periods of uncertainty or unfavorable conditions in the credit markets as we or potential buyers of our assets may experience difficulty in obtaining financing. To dispose of low basis deferral or tax-protected properties efficiently we from time to time use like-kind exchanges, which are intended to qualify for non-recognition of taxable gain, but can be difficult to consummate and result in the property for which the disposed assets are exchanged inheriting their low tax bases and other tax attributes (including tax protection covenants). These challenges related to dispositions may limit our flexibility.. 7. Many real estate costs are fixed, even if income from our properties decreases.. Our financial results depend primarily on leasing space in our properties to tenants on terms favorable to us. Costs associated with real estate investment, such as real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs, generally are not reduced even when a property is not fully occupied, rental rates decrease, or other circumstances cause a reduction in income from the property. As a result, cash flow from the operations of our properties may be reduced if a tenant does not pay its rent or we are unable to rent our properties on favorable terms.. A number of properties in our portfolio are subject to ground or building leases; if we are found to be in breach of a ground or building lease or are unable to renew a ground or building lease, we could be materially and adversely affected.. A number of the properties in our portfolio are either completely or partially on land that is owned by third parties and leased to us pursuant to ground or building leases. Accordingly, we only own a long-term leasehold or similar interest in those properties. If we are found to be in breach of a ground or building lease and that breach cannot be cured, we could lose our interest in the improvements and the right to operate the property. In addition, unless we can purchase a fee interest in the underlying land or building or extend the terms of these leases before or at their expiration, as to which no assurance can be given, we will lose our interest in the improvements and the right to operate these properties. However, in certain cases, our ability to exercise such options is subject to the condition that we are not in default under the terms of the ground or building lease at the time that we exercise such options, and we can provide no assurances that we will be able to exercise our options at such time. If we were to lose the right to operate a property due to a breach or non-renewal of the ground or building lease, we would be unable to derive income from such property, which could materially and adversely affect us.. Loss of our key personnel could adversely affect the value of our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are dependent on the efforts of our key executive personnel. Although we believe qualified replacements could be found for these key executives in the event of a departure, the loss of one or more of their services could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures.. Despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our information technology infrastructure, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. In addition, in August 2017 we implemented a new information technology platform, including a new enterprise resources planning (\"ERP\") system. We have placed reliance on third party managed services to perform a number of these functions. We may experience system difficulties and implementation issues as we transition to our new platform and integrate the services provided by third parties. If we experience a system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations or if we are unable to effectively implement the ERP system, we could experience material and adverse disruptions to our business. We may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions.. The occurrence of cyber incidents or a deficiency in our cybersecurity could cause a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of our confidential information and/or damage to our business relationships.. A cyber incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of our information resources. More specifically, a cyber incident is an intentional attack or an unintentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data, or steal confidential information. As our reliance on information technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our systems, both internal and those we have outsourced. The primary risks that could directly result from the occurrence of a cyber incident are operational interruption, damage to our relationship with our tenants and third-party vendors and private data exposure. We have implemented processes, procedures and controls to help mitigate these risks, however these efforts may not successfully prevent a cyber incident. We maintain coverage for cybersecurity insurance in the event a cyber incident occurs. A cyber incident or other significant disruption involving our information technology could significantly disrupt the proper functioning of our systems and, as a result, disrupt our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations.. We may incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and environmental contamination may impair our ability to lease and/or sell real estate.. Our operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety. Under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property. The owner or operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of the contamination. These. 8. laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused such release. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may impair our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. Other laws and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. The maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are also regulated by federal and state laws. We are also subject to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals. We could incur fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or related claims arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure at or from our properties.. Most of our properties have been subjected to varying degrees of environmental assessment at various times. To date, these environmental assessments have not revealed any environmental condition material and adverse to our business. However, identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, human exposure to contamination or changes in cleanup or compliance requirements could result in significant costs to us.. Generally, our tenants must comply with environmental laws and meet remediation requirements. Our leases typically impose obligations on our tenants to indemnify us from any compliance costs we may incur as a result of the environmental conditions on the property caused by the tenant. If a lease does not require compliance or if a tenant fails to or cannot comply, we could be forced to pay these costs. If not addressed, environmental conditions could impair our ability to sell or re-lease the affected properties in the future or result in lower sales prices or rent payments, which could adversely impact our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations.. Some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance.. The Company maintains (i) general liability insurance with limits of $200 million for properties in the U.S. and Puerto Rico and (ii) all-risk property insurance with limits of $500 million per occurrence and in the aggregate for properties in the U.S. and $139 million for properties in Puerto Rico, subject to the terms, conditions, exclusions, deductibles and sub-limits when applicable for certain perils such as floods and earthquakes and (iii) numerous other insurance policies including trustees' and officers' insurance, workers' compensation and automobile-related liabilities insurance. The Company's insurance includes coverage for certified acts of terrorism acts but excludes coverage for nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological terrorism events as defined by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act, which expires in December 2020. In addition, the Company maintains coverage for certain cybersecurity losses with limits of $5 million per occurrence and in the aggregate providing first and third party coverage including network interruption, event management, cyber extortion and claims for media content, security and privacy liability. Insurance premiums are typically charged directly to each of the retail properties and warehouses but not all of the cost of such premiums are recovered. The Company is responsible for deductibles, losses in excess of insurance coverage, and the portion of premiums not covered from retail properties, which could be material.. We continue to monitor the state of the insurance market and the scope and costs of coverage for acts of terrorism. However, we cannot anticipate what coverage will be available on commercially reasonable terms in the future and expect premiums across most property coverage lines to increase in light of recent events. The incurrence of uninsured losses, costs or uncovered premiums could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Certain of our loans and other agreements contain customary covenants requiring the maintenance of insurance coverage. Although we believe that we currently have adequate insurance coverage for purposes of these agreements, we may not be able to obtain an equivalent amount of coverage at reasonable costs in the future. If lenders or other counterparties insist on greater coverage than we are able to obtain, such requirement could materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our properties and expand our portfolio.. Future terrorist acts and shooting incidents could harm the demand for, and the value of, our properties.. Over the past several years, a number of highly publicized terrorist acts and shootings have occurred at domestic and international retail properties. In the event concerns regarding safety were to alter shopping habits or deter customers from visiting shopping centers, our tenants would be adversely affected as would the general demand for retail space. Additionally, if such incidents were to continue, insurance for such acts may become limited or subject to substantial cost increases. Such an incident at one of our properties, particularly one in which we generate a significant amount of revenue, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 9. Our assets may be subject to impairment charges.. Our long-lived assets, including real estate held for investment, are carried at net book value unless circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. Our properties are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the property may not be recoverable. When assets are identified as held for sale, we estimate the sales prices net of selling costs of such assets. If, in our opinion, the net sales prices of the assets which have been identified for sale are expected to be less than the net book value of the assets, an impairment charge is recorded and we write down the asset to fair value. An impairment charge may also be recorded for any asset if it is probable, in our estimation, that the aggregate future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) to be generated by the property are less than the carrying value of the property. Recording an impairment charge results in an immediate reduction in our income in the period in which the charge is taken, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, safety regulations or other requirements could result in substantial costs.. The ADA generally requires that public buildings including our properties meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants and/or legal fees to their counsel. We could be required under the ADA to make substantial alterations to, and capital expenditures at, one or more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements such as state and local fire and life safety regulations. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. We do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA and any other legislation, our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Changes in accounting principles, or interpretations thereof, could have a significant impact on our financial position and results of operations.. We prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (\"GAAP\"). These principles are subject to interpretation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. Additionally, the adoption of new or revised accounting principles may require that we make significant changes to our systems, processes and controls.. For example, in February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued ASU 2016-02, Leases, which requires all operating leases with lease terms longer than twelve months be recorded as lease assets and lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. Implementing this ASU, as well as other new accounting guidance may require us to make significant upgrades to and investments in our lease administration systems and other accounting systems, and could result in significant adverse changes to our financial statements. For additional information regarding this and other updated standards, see the section titled \"Recently Issued Accounting Literature\" in Note 3 to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We face possible adverse changes in tax laws, which may result in an increase in our tax liability and adverse consequences to our shareholders.. Changes in U.S. federal, state and local tax laws or regulations, with or without retroactive application, could have a negative effect on us. New legislation, Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify to be taxed as a REIT and/or the U.S. federal income tax consequences to our investors and to the Company of such qualification. Even changes that do not impose greater taxes on us could potentially result in adverse consequences to our shareholders. For example, the decrease in corporate tax rates under the recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\") could decrease the attractiveness of the REIT structure relative to companies that are not organized as REITs.. In any event, the rules of Section 355 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, which apply to determine the taxability of the separation and the combination, have been the subject of change and may continue to be the subject of change, possibly with retroactive application, which could have a negative effect on us and our shareholders. If such changes occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our assets or income. These increased tax costs could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, and the amount of cash available for payment of dividends.. 10. Prospective investors are urged to consult with their tax advisors regarding the effects of recently enacted tax legislation and other legislative, regulatory and administrative developments.. The TCJA makes major changes to the Code, including a number of provisions of the Code that affect the taxation of REITs and their stockholders. Among the changes made by the TCJA are permanently reducing the generally applicable corporate tax rate, generally reducing the tax rate applicable to individuals and other non-corporate taxpayers for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026, eliminating or modifying certain previously allowed deductions (including substantially limiting interest deductibility and, for individuals, the deduction for non-business state and local taxes), and, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026, providing for preferential rates of taxation through a deduction of up to 20% (subject to certain limitations) on most ordinary REIT dividends and certain trade or business income of non-corporate taxpayers. The TCJA also imposes new limitations on the deduction of net operating losses, which may result in us having to make additional taxable distributions to our stockholders in order to comply with REIT distribution requirements or avoid taxes on retained income and gains. The effect of the significant changes made by the TCJA is highly uncertain, and administrative guidance will be required in order to fully evaluate the effect of many provisions. The effect of any technical corrections with respect to the TCJA could have an adverse effect on us or our stockholders. Investors should consult their tax advisors regarding the implications of the TCJA on their investment in us.. Our existing tax protection agreements, and any tax protection agreements that we enter into in the future, could limit our flexibility with respect to selling or otherwise disposing of properties contributed to UELP.. In connection with certain contributions of properties to UELP, we and UELP have entered into tax protection agreements with the contributors of such properties that generally provide that if we dispose of any interest in the contributed properties in a taxable transaction within a certain time period, subject to certain exceptions, we may be required to indemnify the contributors for their tax liabilities attributable to the built-in gain that existed with respect to such property interests, and certain tax liabilities incurred as a result of such tax protection payments.  Therefore, although it may be in our stockholders' best interests that we sell a contributed property, it may be economically prohibitive for us to do so because of these obligations. In the future, we and UELP may enter into additional tax protection agreements which could further limit our flexibility to sell or otherwise dispose of our properties.. Our capital recycling strategy entails various risks.. We intend to selectively explore opportunities to dispose of non-core properties and reinvest the sale proceeds in other parts of our business, including in the acquisition of higher quality properties in our target markets and the development and redevelopment of our properties, or to use the proceeds to pay down debt. While we hope to minimize the dilutive effect of these dispositions through acquisitions, earnings from acquired properties may be less than the earnings from the disposed assets. Also, in the event we are unable to sell these assets for amounts equal to or in excess of their current carrying values, we would be required to recognize impairment charges. Any such impairment charges or earnings dilution could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the disposition of our assets may generate gains for tax purposes if not deferred through a Section 1031 exchange, creating the obligation to make additional distributions to our shareholders.. We face significant competition for acquisitions of real properties, which may reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the costs of these acquisitions.. The current market for acquisitions of properties in our core markets continues to be competitive. This competition may increase the demand for the types of properties in which we typically invest and, therefore, increase the prices paid for such acquisition properties. We also face significant competition for attractive acquisition opportunities from an indeterminate number of investors, including publicly-traded and privately-held REITs, private equity investors and institutional investment funds, some of which have greater financial resources, greater ability to borrow funds and the willingness to accept more risk than we can prudently manage, including risks with respect to the geographic proximity of investments and the payment of higher acquisition prices. This competition will increase if investments in real estate become more attractive relative to other forms of investment. Competition for investments may reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities available to us and may have the effect of increasing prices paid for such acquisition properties and, as a result, adversely affecting our ability to grow through acquisitions.. Covenants in our existing financing agreements may restrict our operating, financing, redevelopment, development, acquisition and other activities.. The mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to reduce insurance coverage. Our existing revolving credit facility contains, and any debt that we may obtain in the future may contain, customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including covenants (i) that limit our ability to incur debt based upon (1) our ratio of total debt to total assets, (2) our ratio of secured debt to total assets, (3) our ratio of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) to interest expense and (4) our ratio of EBITDA to fixed charges, and (ii) that require us to maintain a certain level of unencumbered. 11. assets to unsecured debt. Our ability to borrow is subject to compliance with these and other covenants. Failure to comply with our covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt instrument and we may then be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources or to give possession of a secured property to the lender. Under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or may be available only on unattractive terms.. We face risks related to our outstanding debt. The amount of debt and its cost may increase and refinancing or additional financing may not be available at all or on acceptable terms.. If we are unable to obtain debt financing or refinance existing indebtedness upon maturity, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. During the twelve months ending December 31, 2018, approximately $11.5 million of our outstanding indebtedness will mature, which pertains to the mortgage loan secured by our property in Englewood, NJ. During 2017, our property in Englewood, NJ was transferred to a receiver. Subsequent to December 31, 2017, the property was sold at a foreclosure sale. Upon issuance of the court's order approving the sale and discharging the receiver, all assets and liabilities related to the property will be removed. We have no other debt scheduled to mature until 2021. In addition, the cost of our existing debt may increase, especially in the case of a rising interest rate environment, and we may not be able to refinance our existing debt in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms. If the cost or amount of our indebtedness increases or we cannot refinance our debt in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms, we are at risk of default on our obligations.. One of our current tax protection agreements requires, and any tax protection agreements we enter into in the future may require, UELP to maintain for specified periods of time secured debt on certain of our assets and/or allocate partnership debt to such limited partners to enable them to continue to defer recognition of their taxable gain with respect to the contributed properties. If the failure of UELP to maintain such levels of debt causes any such contributor to recognize gain, we may be required to deliver to such contributor a cash payment intended to approximate the contributor's tax liability resulting from such failure and certain tax liabilities incurred as a result of such tax protection payment. This tax protection agreement may restrict UELP's ability to repay or refinance debt or require UELP to maintain more or different debt than UELP would otherwise require for our business.. Rising interest rates could adversely affect our cash flows.. Of our $1.6 billion of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2017, $169.5 million bears interest at variable rates. We have a $600 million revolving credit facility, on which no balance is outstanding at December 31, 2017, that bears interest at London Interbank Offered Rate (\"LIBOR\") plus an applicable margin of 1.10% to 1.55% and an annual facility fee of 15 to 35 basis points, dependent on our current leverage ratio. We may continue borrow additional funds at variable interest rates in the future. Increases in interest rates would increase the interest expense on our variable rate debt and reduce our cash flow, which could adversely affect our ability to service our debt and meet our other obligations and also could reduce the amount we are able to distribute to our shareholders.. Defaults on secured indebtedness may result in foreclosure.. In the event that we default on mortgages in the future, either as a result of ceasing to make debt service payments or failing to meet applicable covenants, the lenders may accelerate the related debt obligations and foreclose and/or take control of the properties that secure their loans. As of December 31, 2017, we had $1.6 billion of secured debt outstanding and 32 of our properties were encumbered by secured debt. Further, for tax purposes, the foreclosure of a mortgage may result in the recognition of taxable income related to the extinguished debt without us having received any accompanying cash proceeds. As a result, since we are structured as a REIT, we may be required to identify and utilize sources for distributions to our shareholders related to such taxable income in order to avoid incurring corporate tax or to meet the REIT distribution requirements imposed by the Code.. We may not be able to obtain capital to make investments.. We depend primarily on external financing to fund the growth of our business because one of the requirements of the Code for a REIT is that it distributes at least 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to its shareholders. There is a separate requirement to distribute net capital gains or pay a corporate level tax in lieu thereof. Our access to debt or equity financing depends on the willingness of third parties to lend to or to make equity investments and on conditions in the capital markets generally. There can be no assurance that new financing or other capital will be available or available on acceptable terms. The failure to obtain financing or other capital could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. For information about our available sources of funds, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources\" and the notes to the audited consolidated and combined financial statements included in Part II, Item 8. in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. 12. We may fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT and may be required to pay income taxes at corporate rates.. Although we believe that we will remain organized and will continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may fail to remain so qualified. Qualifications are governed by highly technical and complex provisions of the Code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations and that depend on various facts and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the relevant tax laws and/or the federal income tax consequences of qualifying as a REIT. If, with respect to any taxable year, we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT and do not qualify under statutory relief provisions, we could not deduct distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income and would have to pay federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. The federal income tax payable would include any applicable alternative minimum tax (which, for corporations, was repealed for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017 under the TCJA). If we had to pay federal income tax, the amount of money available to distribute to shareholders and pay our indebtedness would be reduced for the year or years involved, and we would no longer be required to make distributions to shareholders. In addition, we would also be disqualified as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost unless we were entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions.. We are also required to pay certain corporate-level taxes on our assets located in Puerto Rico and such taxes may increase if recently proposed taxes are implemented.. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to execute our business plan.. To qualify to be taxed as a REIT, and assuming that certain other requirements are also satisfied, we generally must distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gains, to our shareholders each year so that U.S. federal corporate income tax does not apply to earnings that we distribute. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement and qualify for taxation as a REIT, but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and including any net capital gains, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed net taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we distribute to our shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal income tax laws. We intend to distribute 100% of our REIT taxable income to our shareholders.. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our cash flow as a result of differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash or the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the effect of limitations on interest and net operating loss deductibility under the TCJA, the creation of reserves, or required debt or amortization payments. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we could be required to borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell assets at disadvantageous prices, distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt, or make taxable distributions of our shares or debt securities to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity. Further, amounts distributed will not be available to fund investment activities. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our shares. Any restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness or make certain distributions could preclude us from meeting the 90% distribution requirement. Decreases in funds from operations due to unfinanced expenditures for acquisitions of properties or increases in the number of shares outstanding without commensurate increases in funds from operations would adversely affect our ability to maintain distributions to our shareholders. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we will be able to make distributions at the anticipated distribution rate or any other rate.. If a transaction intended to qualify as a Section 1031 Exchange is later determined to be taxable, we may face adverse consequences, and if the laws applicable to such transactions are amended or repealed, we may not be able to dispose of properties on a tax deferred basis.. From time to time we may dispose of properties in transactions that are intended to qualify as \"like kind exchanges\" under Section 1031 of the Code (\"Section 1031 Exchanges\"). It is possible that the qualification of a transaction as a Section 1031 Exchange could be successfully challenged and determined to be currently taxable. In such case, our taxable income and earnings and profits would increase. In some circumstances, we may be required to pay additional dividends or, in lieu of that, corporate income tax, possibly including interest and penalties. As a result, we may be required to borrow funds in order to pay additional dividends or taxes, and the payment of such taxes could cause us to have less cash available to distribute to our shareholders. In addition, if a Section 1031 Exchange were later to be determined to be taxable, we may be required to amend our tax returns for the applicable year in question, including any information reports we sent our shareholders. Moreover, it is possible that legislation could be enacted that could modify or repeal the laws with respect to Section 1031 Exchanges, which could make it more difficult or not possible for us to dispose of properties on a tax deferred basis.. 13. We are subject to litigation that may negatively impact our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations.. We are a defendant from time to time in lawsuits and regulatory proceedings relating to our business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we may not be able to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such litigation or proceedings. A significant unfavorable outcome could negatively impact our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations.. If the distribution by each of Vornado and VRLP together with certain related transactions does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, Vornado and Vornado shareholders could be subject to significant tax liabilities.. Vornado received a private letter ruling from the IRS to the effect that the distribution of UE common shares by each of Vornado and its operating partnership, Vornado Realty L.P. (\"VRLP\"), together with certain related transactions, will, with respect to UE, VRLP, Vornado and the shareholders of Vornado, qualify as transactions that are generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 351 and 355 of the Code. Vornado obtained an opinion from of Roberts & Holland LLP, special tax counsel to Vornado, satisfactory to the Vornado Board of Trustees, to the effect that the distribution of UE common shares by each of Vornado and VRLP, together with certain related transactions, with respect to UE, VRLP, Vornado and the shareholders of Vornado, qualifies as transactions that are generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 351, 355, and 731 of the Code, including with respect to certain matters relating to these transactions that are not covered by the private letter ruling from the IRS. The private letter ruling is, and the opinion of Roberts & Holland LLP is based on, among other things, certain facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of Vornado and UE (including those relating to the past and future conduct of Vornado and UE). If any of these representations, statements or undertakings are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, or if Vornado or UE breach any of their respective covenants in the separation documents, the private letter ruling from the IRS and the opinion of Roberts & Holland LLP may be invalid and the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized. In such case, the IRS could assert that the distribution of UE common shares by each of Vornado and VRLP, together with certain related transactions, should be treated as a taxable transaction. The opinion of Roberts & Holland LLP is not binding on the IRS or any courts.. If the distribution, together with certain related transactions, fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, in general, Vornado would recognize taxable gain as if it had sold the UE common shares in a taxable sale for its fair market value and Vornado shareholders who received UE common shares in the distribution could be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares.. The terms of our agreements with Vornado relating to the separation and distribution may result in indemnification or tax liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Because these and other terms of our agreements with Vornado were not negotiated at arm's length, we may have been able to achieve more favorable terms from unaffiliated third parties.. In connection with the separation and distribution, we entered into certain agreements with Vornado, including a separation agreement between UE and Vornado (the \"Separation Agreement\") and a tax matters agreement between UE and Vornado (the \"Tax Matters Agreement\"). These agreements govern certain aspects of our relationship with Vornado. For example, the Tax Matters Agreement governs Vornado's and UE's respective rights, responsibilities and obligations with respect to taxes and liabilities, including taxes arising in the ordinary course of business, taxes, if any, incurred as a result of any failure of the spin and certain related transactions to qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, tax attributes, tax returns, tax elections, tax contests and certain other tax matters. Pursuant to the agreement, UE may be required to indemnify Vornado against additional taxes resulting from any violation of a covenant or any inaccuracy or falsity of a representation made by UE under the agreement. The Separation Agreement also contains indemnification provisions which may make us financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to our business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the separation and distribution, as well as those obligations of Vornado that we assumed pursuant to the Separation Agreement. These indemnity obligations could be substantial.. The terms of our Agreements, including those relating to tax and indemnification, were determined while we were still a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vornado. They were determined by persons who were, at the time, employees, officers or trustees of Vornado or its subsidiaries and, accordingly, had a conflict of interest. For example, during the period in which the terms of those agreements were prepared, we did not have a board of trustees that was independent of Vornado. As a result, the terms of those agreements may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm's-length negotiations between unaffiliated third parties. Arm's-length negotiations between Vornado and an unaffiliated third party in another form of transaction, such as a buyer in a sale of a business transaction, may have resulted in more favorable terms to the unaffiliated third party. See \"Certain Relationships and Related Person Transactions.\". 14. In connection with our separation from Vornado, Vornado will indemnify us for certain pre-distribution liabilities and liabilities related to Vornado assets. However, there can be no assurance that these indemnities will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that Vornado's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future.. Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, Vornado has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that Vornado agreed to retain and to indemnify us from and there can be no assurance that Vornado will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Vornado any amounts for which we are held liable, such indemnification may be insufficient to fully offset the financial impact of such liabilities and we may be temporarily required to bear these losses while seeking recovery from Vornado.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON SHARES. The market prices and trading volume of our equity securities may be volatile.. The market prices of our equity securities depend on various factors which may be unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. We cannot assure you that the market prices of our equity securities, including our common shares, will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future.. A number of factors could negatively affect, or result in fluctuations in, the prices or trading volume of equity securities, including:. • actual or anticipated changes in our operating results and changes in expectations of future financial performance;. • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies;. • changes in the real estate industry, and in the retail industry, including growth in e-commerce, catalog companies and direct consumer sales;. • our strategic decisions, such as acquisitions, dispositions, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy;. • equity issuances or buybacks by us or the perception that such issuances or buybacks may occur or adverse reaction market reaction to any indebtedness we incur;. • increases in market interest rates or decreases in our distributions to shareholders;. • changes in real estate valuations or market valuations of similar companies;. • additions or departures of key management personnel;. • publication of research reports about us or our industry by securities analysts, or negative speculation in the press or investment community;. • the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us, our tax status, or our industry;. • changes in accounting principles;. • our failure to satisfy the listing requirements of the NYSE;. • our failure to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes - Oxley Act;. • our failure to qualify as a REIT; and. • general market conditions, including factors unrelated to our performance.. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the price of their common stock. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations.. We cannot guarantee the timing, amount, or payment of dividends on our common shares.. Although we expect to pay regular cash dividends, the timing, declaration, amount and payment of dividends to shareholders falls within the discretion of the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees' decisions regarding the payment of dividends depends on factors such as our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, limitations under our financing arrangements, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, and other considerations that it deems relevant. Our ability to pay dividends depends on our ongoing ability to generate cash from operations and access to the capital markets. We cannot guarantee that we will pay dividends in the future.. 15. Your percentage of ownership in the Company may be diluted in the future.. In the future, your ownership in us may be diluted because of equity issuances for acquisitions, capital market transactions or otherwise. For example, in August 2016, we entered into distribution agreements with various financial institutions as part of our implementation of a continuous equity offering program (the \"ATM Program\") under which we may sell up to $250 million in common shares, par value of $0.01 per share, from time to time in \"at-the-market\" offerings or certain other transactions, and in 2017 we issued 13.95 million common shares in two separate offerings. In addition, we have and anticipate that we will continue to grant compensatory equity awards to our trustees, officers, employees, advisers and consultants who will provide services to us. The issuance of additional common shares, including sales under the ATM Program and awards to our executives, would dilute the interests of our current shareholders, and could depress the market price of our common shares, impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities, or impact our ability to pay dividends. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common shares or other equity-related securities including the issuance of Operating Partnership units would have on the market price of our common shares.. In addition, the Company's Declaration of Trust authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our shareholders, one or more classes or series of preferred shares having such designation, voting powers, preferences, rights and other terms, including preferences over our common shares respecting dividends and other distributions, as the Board of Trustees generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred shares could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common shares. For example, we could grant the holders of preferred shares the right to elect some number of our trustees in all events or on the occurrence of specified events, or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred shares could affect the residual value of the common shares.. Increases in market interest rates may result in a decrease in the value of our publicly-traded equity securities.. One of the factors that may influence the prices of our publicly-traded equity securities is the interest rate on our debt and the dividend yield on our common and preferred shares relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates, which are currently at low levels relative to historical rates, rise, our borrowing costs could rise and result in less funds being available for distribution. Therefore, we may not be able to, or we may choose not to, provide a higher distribution rate on our common stock. In addition, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect the market value of our properties. These factors could result in a decline in the market prices of our publicly-traded equity securities.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR ORGANIZATION AND STRUCTURE. The Company's Declaration of Trust sets limits on the ownership of our shares.. Generally, for us to maintain a qualification as a REIT under the Code, not more than fifty percent (50%) in value of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest of the Company may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of the Company's taxable year. The Code defines \"individuals\" for purposes of the requirement described in the preceding sentence to include some types of entities. Under the Company's Declaration of Trust, no person or entity (or group thereof) may own more than 9.8% (in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding shares of any class or series, with some exceptions for persons or entities approved by the Board of Trustees. A transfer of shares of beneficial interest of the Company to a person who, as a result of the transfer, violates the ownership limit will be void under certain circumstances, and, in any event, would deny that person any of the economic benefits of owning shares in excess of the ownership limit. These restrictions on transferability and ownership may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of the Company or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the shareholders.. The Company's Declaration of Trust limits the removal of members of the Board of Trustees.. The Company's Declaration of Trust provides that, subject to the rights of holders of one or more classes or series of preferred shares to elect or remove one or more trustees, a trustee may be removed only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast in the election of trustees. This provision, when coupled with the exclusive power of the Board of Trustees to fill vacancies on the Board of Trustees, precludes shareholders from removing incumbent trustees except for cause and upon a substantial affirmative vote and filling the vacancies created by the removal with their own nominees. These limitations may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of the Company or other transactions that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our shareholders.. Maryland law contains provisions that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover transactions.. Certain provisions of Maryland law, may have the effect of inhibiting a third-party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our shares, including:. 16. • \"Business combination\" provisions that, subject to certain exceptions, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an \"interested shareholder\" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof or an affiliate or associate of ours who was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of the voting power of our then outstanding voting shares at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question) for five years after the most recent date on which the shareholder becomes an interested shareholder, and thereafter impose fair price or super majority shareholder voting requirements on these combinations; and. • \"Control share\" provisions that provide that holders of \"control shares\" of the Company (defined as shares that, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the shareholder, entitle the shareholder to exercise voting power in the election of trustees within one of three increasing ranges) acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of the voting power of issued and outstanding \"control shares,\" subject to certain exceptions) have no voting rights with respect to their control shares, except to the extent approved by our shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.. As permitted by Maryland law, the Company's Bylaws provide that we will not be subject to the control share provisions of Maryland law. However, we cannot assure you that the Board of Trustees will not revise the Company's Bylaws in order to be subject to such control share provisions in the future.. Certain provisions of Maryland law permit the board of trustees of a Maryland real estate investment trust with at least three independent trustees and a class of shares registered under the Exchange Act, without shareholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in its declaration of trust or bylaws, to implement certain corporate governance provisions, some of which (for example, implementing a classified board) are not currently applicable to us. These provisions may have the effect of limiting or precluding a third party from making an unsolicited acquisition proposal for the Company or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our shares with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price.. We may issue additional shares in a manner that could adversely affect the likelihood of certain takeover transactions.. The Company's Declaration of Trust and Bylaws authorize the Board of Trustees in its sole discretion and without shareholder approval, to:. • cause the Company to issue additional authorized, but unissued, common or preferred shares;. • classify or reclassify, in one or more classes or series, any unissued common or preferred shares;. • set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or reclassified shares that the Company issues; and. • increase the number of shares of beneficial interest that the Company may issue.. The Board of Trustees can establish a class or series of common or preferred shares whose terms could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of the Company or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the Company's shareholders. The Company's Declaration of Trust and Bylaws contain other provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of the Company or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our shareholders and the Company.. We may change our policies without obtaining the approval of our shareholders.. Our operating and financial policies, including our policies with respect to acquisitions of real estate or other companies, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and dividends, are exclusively determined by the Board of Trustees. Accordingly, our shareholders do not control these policies."
