[1] "ITEM 1A - RISK FACTORS. FACTORS AFFECTING FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. We continue to experience operating losses and may not have sufficient liquidity to execute our business plan or to continue our operations without obtaining additional funding or selling additional securities. Our ability to obtain additional funding or obtain them under commercially reasonable terms is not assured and we may not be able to issue additional securities.. We reported net losses attributable to UTStarcom, Inc. of $65.1 million, $225.7 million and $150.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. At December 31, 2010 we had an accumulated deficit of $1,132.3 million and used $92.2 million of cash in operations during the year ended December 31, 2010.. Management has partially implemented its liquidity plan through the payment in March 2008 of $289.5 million to retire our convertible subordinated notes and related accrued interest, the sale of UTStarcom Personal Communications LLC, or PCD, on July 1, 2008 and the sale of our facility in Hangzhou, China for approximately $138.8 million (see Notes 3, 6 and 7 of Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements, included under Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K). In addition, in the second quarter of 2010, we entered into two credit facilities totaling $29.4 million. Both credit facilities can be used for the issuance of certain letters of credit and guarantees and both facilities expire in the second quarter of 2011. As a result, management believes we will have sufficient liquidity to finance our 2011 anticipated operations and capital expenditure requirements, as well as achieve projected cash collections from customers and contain expenses and cash used in operations. However, achievement of such operating performance is not assured and management expects to continue to implement its liquidity plans, which includes reducing operating expenses. If we cannot successfully implement our liquidity plans, it may be necessary for us to make significant changes to our business plan in order to maintain adequate liquidity. In addition, various other matters may impact our liquidity such as:. <U+0095>inability to achieve planned operating results that could increase liquidity requirements beyond those considered in our business plan;      <U+0095>changes in financial market conditions or our business condition that could limit our access to existing credit facilities or make new financings more costly or even unfeasible;      <U+0095>changes in China's currency exchange control regulations that could limit our ability to access cash in China to meet liquidity requirements for our operations in China or elsewhere; and      <U+0095>difficulties in performing finance and other key functions, as a result of our elimination of functional duplication during 2010 through the consolidation of a number of such functions into our China operations, which could adversely affect cash collections and liquidity.. Although management has developed liquidity plans, we may have difficulty maintaining existing relationships, or developing new relationships, with suppliers or vendors as a result of our financial condition. Our suppliers or vendors could choose to provide supplies or services to us on more stringent payment terms than those currently in place, such as by requiring advance payment or payment upon delivery of such supplies or services, which would have an adverse impact on our short-term cash flows. As a result, our ability to retain current customers, attract new customers and maintain contracts that are critical to our operations may be adversely affected.. If we cannot meet our liquidity needs through improved operating results, we may need to obtain additional financing from financial institutions. However, we cannot be assured that we will be able to obtain loans or obtain them under commercially reasonable terms. We may also have to sell additional. 18. Table of Contents. securities to meet our liquidity needs, but our ability to sell our securities is not assured. In addition, any additional issuance of securities would dilute the ownership of our stockholders.. Our cost-reduction initiatives and restructuring plans may not result in anticipated savings or more efficient operations. Our restructuring may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our operations and financial results.. On June 11, 2009, we announced a restructuring of our worldwide operations in an effort to accelerate our return to profitability, strategically align our cost structure with expected revenues and reallocate resources into areas of our business that we believe have more growth potential. Throughout 2010, we continued to execute our restructuring strategies. We may not be able to successfully complete and realize the expected benefits of our restructuring plans. Our restructuring plans may involve higher costs or a longer timetable, or they may fail to improve our results of operations and cash flows as we anticipate. Our inability to realize these benefits may result in an ineffective business structure that could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition to costs related to severance and other employee-related costs, our restructuring plans may also subject us to litigation risks and expenses.. Our restructuring plans may have other adverse consequences, such as employee attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce, the loss of employees with valuable knowledge or expertise, a negative impact on employee morale, or a gain in competitive advantage by our competitors over us. The restructuring may place increased demands on our personnel and could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain talent, to develop and enhance our products and services, to service existing customers, to achieve our sales and marketing objectives and to perform our accounting, finance and administrative functions.. We may undertake future cost-reduction initiatives and restructuring plans that may adversely impact our operations; and we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our prior or any future restructurings.. Market turmoil may negatively impact our business.. Disruptions in orderly financial markets, resulting from, among other factors, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability plus volatile and declining valuations of securities and other investments, have caused business and consumer confidence to ebb, business activities to slowdown, and unemployment to increase. These factors along with the interconnectivity and interdependency of international economies have created a global downturn in economic activity.. We are unable to predict how long the economic downturn will last. A continuing economic downturn may adversely impact our business in a number of ways, such as:. <U+0095>Reduced demand for our products and services.  In a period of economic uncertainty customers may adopt a strategy of deferring purchases to upgrade existing systems or to deploy new systems until later periods when the recoverability of their investment becomes more assured. In addition, customers who must finance their capital expenditures by issuance of debt or equity securities may find the securities markets unavailable to them.      <U+0095>Increased pricing pressure and lower margins.  Our competitors include a number of global enterprises with relatively greater size in terms of revenues, working capital, financial resources and number of employees, and our customers are telecommunication service providers who typically are owned, controlled, or sponsored by governments. If the size of our potential markets contract due to the global economic downturn, competition for available contracts may become more intense which could require us to offer or accept pricing, payment, or local content terms which are less favorable to remain competitive. In some cases we might be. 19. Table of Contents. unwilling or unable to compete for business where competitive pressures make a potential opportunity unprofitable to us.    <U+0095>Greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable.  Many of our telecommunication carrier customers are either owned or controlled by governments and any changes in such governments' policies concerning the authorization or funding of payments for capital expenditures could lengthen our cash collection cycle and thereby cause our liquidity to deteriorate. Additionally, while the vast majority of our net sales are to such large, well capitalized telecommunication carriers, some sales are made to distributors or other customers whose financial resources may be more subject to rapid decline, which could expose us to losing sales, delaying revenue recognition or accepting greater collection risks due to credit quality issues.     <U+0095>Greater difficulty in obtaining purchased goods and services.  We expect that many of our suppliers will face the same or more challenging circumstances as we face in the current economic downturn, which could result in an adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity. Some suppliers or vendors could choose to provide supplies or services to us on more stringent payment terms than those currently in place, such as by requiring advance payment or payment upon delivery of such supplies or services. Additionally, some suppliers might experience a worsening financial condition causing them to either withdraw from the market or be unable to meet our expected timing for the receipt of goods ordered from them, either of which condition in turn could adversely affect our ability to serve our customers and lengthen the cycle time for transforming customer orders into cash receipts. Additionally if it is necessary to seek alternative sources of supply, the effects on our costs, cycle time for cash collections, and customer satisfaction with our Company are uncertain.      <U+0095>Additional restructuring and asset impairment charges.  If we are unable to generate the level of new contract bookings, revenues, and cash flow contemplated by our business plan, management will be forced to take further action to focus our business activities and align our cost structure with anticipated revenues. These actions, if necessary, could result in additional restructuring charges and/or asset impairment charges being recognized in 2011 and beyond.. Changes in our management may cause uncertainty in, or be disruptive to, our business. Certain of our directors and management team members have been with us in those capacities for only a short time.. We experienced significant changes in our management and our Board of Directors in recent times. For example, our Chief Financial Officer was appointed as such in May 2010 and we appointed our Chief Operating Officer as our Chief Executive Officer and President in September 2010. Additionally, three directors resigned and five new directors were added to our Board of Directors since September 2010. Although we have endeavored to implement any director and management transition in as non-disruptive a manner as possible, any such transition might impact our business, and give rise to uncertainty among our customers, investors, vendors, employees and others concerning our future direction and performance. This could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and our ability to execute our business model could be impaired.. In addition, because we have members of management and our Board of Directors serving in their capacity as such for only a short duration, we face the additional risks that these persons:. <U+0095>have limited familiarity with our past practices;      <U+0095>lack experience in communicating effectively within the team and with other employees;      <U+0095>lack settled areas of responsibility; and      <U+0095>lack an established track record in managing our business strategy.. 20. Table of Contents. Our overall financial performance continues to depend in large part upon our China subsidiaries.. Approximately 57% of our sales were generated in China in 2010, as compared to approximately 46% and 27% of our sales in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Subsequent to the divestiture of PCD in July 2008, China now accounts for a larger portion of our overall sales. We have made substantial investments in China and, therefore, our business, financial condition and results of operations are to a significant degree subject to economic, political, legal and social developments and other events in China. If our business in China declines, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be significantly harmed. See Part I, Item 1A entitled \"Risk Factors - Risks Relating to Conducting Business in China\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We may be unable or unwilling to accept additional purchase orders from existing clients, which could damage our relationships with such clients and lead to legal and financial consequences which could harm our business.. Due to liquidity constraints or other strategic factors, we may from time to time be unable or unwilling to accept additional purchase orders from existing clients. If an existing customer places a purchase order with us that we then refuse to accept, our relationship with such customer may be harmed. Moreover, any refusal or inability by us to accept additional purchase orders may result in legal claims by our customers, reduced collections from previous purchase orders and financial penalties, which could distract our management and harm our business. Certain of our contracts have significant performance bank guarantees that, subject to the terms in the contracts, may be paid to the customer in the event of a default by us in addition to any other remedies it may have.. Any failure by us to successfully transition certain functions to China may lead to increased costs and adversely affect our business.. We recently transitioned certain key functions, including headquarters and finance, to China in order to eliminate functional duplication and reduce operating expenses. The transition is a critical part of our plan to achieve profitability and maintain liquidity. We may experience a higher than typical rate of employee turnover as a result of this transition and a decrease in employee morale. If we fail to attract, hire, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in China, the transitioned functions may be negatively impacted. Cash collections and liquidity may be adversely affected if we have difficulties performing finance functions going forward after the transition. Information and data that we rely on may be subject to risk of loss in connection with the transition. If we are not successful in this initiative, we may not achieve the expected benefits despite having expended significant capital and human effort.. Adverse resolution of pending civil litigation may harm our operating results or financial condition.. We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. This litigation is, and any future additional litigation could be, time consuming and expensive, could divert our management's attention away from our regular business, and if any one of these lawsuits is adversely resolved against us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. For additional information regarding certain of the matters in which we are involved, see Part I, Item 3 entitled \"Legal Proceedings\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. 21. Table of Contents. Our future product sales are unpredictable and, as a result, our operating results are likely to fluctuate from quarter to quarter.. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors, some of which are outside of our control. Factors that may affect our future operating results include:. <U+0095>the timing and size of the orders for our products;      <U+0095>consumer acceptance of new products we may introduce to market;      <U+0095>changes in the growth rate of customer purchases of communications services;      <U+0095>the lengthy and unpredictable sales cycles associated with sales of our products;      <U+0095>revenue recognition, which is based primarily on customer acceptance of delivered products, is unpredictable;     <U+0095>cancellation, deferment or delay in implementation of large contracts;      <U+0095>quality issues resulting from the design or manufacture of the products, or from the software used in the product;     <U+0095>cash collection cycles in China and other emerging markets;      <U+0095>reliance on product, software and component suppliers who may constitute a sole source of supply or may have going concern issues;      <U+0095>the decline in business activity we typically experience during the Chinese Lunar New Year, which leads to decreased sales and collections during our first fiscal quarter;      <U+0095>issues that might arise from divestiture of non-core assets or operations or the integration of acquired entities and the inability to achieve expected results from such divestitures or acquisitions;      <U+0095>shifts in our product mix or market focus; and      <U+0095>availability of adequate liquidity to implement our business plan.. As a result of these and other factors, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful or indicative of future performance. In addition, the factors noted above may make it difficult for us to forecast our future financial performance. Furthermore, it is possible that in some future quarters our operating results will fall below our internal forecasts, public guidance or the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. Competition in our markets may lead to reduced prices, revenues and market share.. We face intense competition, and will continue to face intense competition, from both domestic and international companies in our target markets, many of which may operate under lower cost structures and have much larger sales forces than we do. Additionally, other companies not presently offering competing products may also enter our target markets. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, product development, sales, marketing and other resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in service provider requirements. Our competitors may also be able to devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion and sale of new products. These competitors may be able to offer significant financing arrangements to service providers, which may give them a competitive advantage in selling systems to service providers with limited financial resources. In many of the developing markets in which we operate or intend to operate, relationships. 22. Table of Contents. with local governmental telecommunications agencies are important to establish and maintain through permissible means. In many such markets, our competitors may have or be able to establish better relationships with local governmental telecommunications agencies than we have, which could result in their ability to influence governmental policy formation and interpretation to their advantage. Additionally, our competitors might have better relationships with their third party suppliers and obtain component parts at reduced rates, allowing them to offer their end products at reduced prices. Moreover, the telecommunications and data transmission industries have experienced significant consolidation, and we expect this trend to continue. If we have fewer significant customers, we may be more reliant on such large customers and our bargaining position and profit margins may suffer.. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced gross profit as a percentage of net sales and loss of market share, any one of which could materially harm our business, cash flows and financial condition if extended losses were incurred. In order to be competitive, we must continually reduce the cost of manufacturing our products through design and engineering changes and other cost control measures. We may not be successful in these efforts or in delivering our products to market in a timely manner. In addition, any redesign may not result in sufficient cost reductions to allow us to reduce the prices of our products to remain competitive or to improve or maintain our gross profit as a percentage of net sales, which would cause our financial results to suffer.. To meet competitive offerings we may accept contracts with low profitability or even enter into contracts with anticipated losses if we believe it is necessary to establish a relationship with a customer or a presence in a market that we consider important to our strategy. Accepting a contract with an anticipated loss requires us to recognize a provision for the entire loss in the period in which it becomes evident rather than in later periods in which contract performance occurs. Accepting contracts with low gross margins adversely affects our reported results when the revenues from such contracts are recognized; in some cases revenue recognition must be deferred until all revenue recognition criteria have been met, and this would result in recognizing the adverse effects of low gross margin contracts in periods subsequent to when contract performance occurred.. The average selling prices of our products may decrease, which may reduce our revenues and our gross profit.. The average selling prices for communications access and switching systems and handsets have historically declined as a result of a number of factors, including:. <U+0095>increased competition;      <U+0095>aggressive price reductions by competitors;      <U+0095>rapid technological change; and      <U+0095>constant change in customer buying behavior and market trends.. The average selling prices of our products may continue to decrease in the future in response to product introductions by us or our competitors or other factors, including price pressures from customers. Certain of our products, including wireless handsets, historically have had low gross profit margins, and any further deterioration of our profit margins on such products could result in losses with respect to such products. Therefore, we must continue to develop, source and introduce new products and enhancements to existing products that incorporate features that can be sold at higher average selling prices. Failure to do so, or the failure of consumers or our direct customers to accept such new products, could cause our revenues and gross profit to decline.. 23. Table of Contents. Our market is subject to rapid technological change, and to compete effectively, we must continually introduce new products and product enhancements that achieve market acceptance.. The market for communications equipment is characterized by rapid technological developments, frequent new product introductions, changes in consumer preferences and evolving industry and regulatory standards. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to enhance our technologies and develop and introduce new products and product enhancements that anticipate changing service provider requirements, technological developments and evolving consumer preferences. We may need to make substantial capital expenditures and incur significant research and development costs to develop and introduce new products and enhancements. If we fail to develop and introduce new products or enhancements to existing products that effectively respond to technological change on a timely basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Certain of our products have a short product life. Moreover, from time to time, our competitors or we may announce new products or product enhancements, technologies or services that have the potential to replace or shorten the life cycles of our products and that may cause customers to defer purchasing our existing products, resulting in charges for inventory obsolescence reserves. Future technological advances in the communications industry may diminish or inhibit market acceptance of our existing or future products or render our products obsolete. Even if we are able to develop and introduce new products, they may not gain market acceptance. Market acceptance of our products will depend on various factors, including:. <U+0095>our ability to obtain necessary approvals from regulatory organizations within the countries in which we operate and for any new technologies that we introduce;      <U+0095>the length of time it takes service providers to evaluate our products, causing the timing of purchases to be unpredictable;      <U+0095>the compatibility of our products with legacy technologies and standards existing in previously deployed network equipment;      <U+0095>our ability to attract customers who may have pre-existing relationships with our competitors;     <U+0095>product pricing relative to performance;      <U+0095>the level of customer service available to support new products; and      <U+0095>the timing of new product introductions meeting demand patterns.. If our products fail to obtain market acceptance in a timely manner, our business and results of operations could suffer.. We depend on a third party contract manufacturer for the manufacture and supply of our products. If we cannot secure from our contract manufacturer timely delivery of our products, high quality manufacture, or competitive prices, or if our contract manufacturer ceases to exist, then our competitive position, reputation and business could be harmed.. On January 23, 2010, we, through our wholly owned subsidiary, UTStarcom Telecom Co., Ltd. signed a Manufacturing Agreement with a contract manufacturer, effective as of December 31, 2009. The Manufacturing Agreement has an initial term of one year, with automatic renewals of one year terms unless notice is provided 90 days prior to the end of the then-current term. The Manufacturing Agreement may be terminated for cause and either party may terminate the agreement for convenience with prior notice of six months. Under the Manufacturing Agreement, the contract manufacturer provides full electronics manufacturing services, including manufacturing, assembly and support, for our broadband, IPTV and NGN solutions products previously manufactured through our Hangzhou, China facility. The contract manufacturer also provides new product introduction support, material sourcing and procurement, printed circuit board assembly, system integration and testing, final pack-out and. 24. Table of Contents. delivery of products under the Manufacturing Agreement. There is no minimum annual requirement under the terms of the Manufacturing Agreement; however, we are required to provide a four month rolling forecast and we are obligated to purchase one of the four month rolling forecast. For the remaining three months of the then-current four month rolling forecast, we are obligated to pay for any components on our bill of materials ordered, which are not passive components and are non-cancellable, and we may also be obligated to buy back excess inventory and obsolete inventory.. Our growth and ability to meet customer demands depends in part on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of quality products from our contract manufacturers. The fact that we do not own or operate the bulk of our manufacturing facilities and that we are reliant on our contract manufacturer could have an adverse impact on the supply of our products and on our business and operating results, and subjects us to the following risks:. <U+0095>failure to receive timely delivery of our products could cause delay in our ability to timely fulfill customer orders;     <U+0095>failure to receive good quality products from our contract manufacturer could affect our ability to fulfill customer orders and damage our relationship with our customers;      <U+0095>failure to estimate customer demand and properly place product orders could result in excess inventory or insufficient inventory;      <U+0095>any financial problems of either our contract manufacturer or their component suppliers could either limit the products we receive or increase our costs;      <U+0095>reservation of manufacturing capacity at our contract manufacturer by other companies could either limit supply or increase costs; and      <U+0095>we are otherwise unable to realize the efficiencies anticipated when we decided to outsource our manufacturing.. Supply chain issues, including financial problems of our contract manufacturer or their component suppliers, or a shortage of adequate component supply or manufacturing capacity could increase our costs or cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders and have an impact on our customers, could have an adverse affect on our business and operating results and gross margins. A reduction or interruption in supply; a significant increase in the price of one or more components; a failure to adequately authorize procurement of inventory by our contract manufacturer; a failure to appropriately cancel, reschedule, or adjust our requirements based on our business needs; or a decrease in demand for our products could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition and could materially damage customer relationships. If our contract manufacturer ceases to do business, our revenue and gross margins could suffer until another contract manufacturing source can be developed. Our operating results could also be adversely affected if, anticipating greater demand than actually develops, we commit to the purchase of more products than we need, or if we fail to estimate adequate customer demand, resulting in a lack of products to sell to customers, either of which is more likely to occur in a period of demand uncertainties such as we are currently experiencing. We may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to deliver products to customers and seriously impact present and future sales.. We purchase certain key components and materials used in our products from authorized distributors of sole source suppliers. If we cannot secure adequate supplies of high quality products at competitive prices or in a timely manner, our competitive position, reputation and business could be harmed.. We purchase certain key components and materials, such as chipsets, used in our products from authorized distributors of sole source suppliers. We do not have direct contractual arrangements with the sole source suppliers of chipsets used in our products. If we are unable to obtain high-quality. 25. Table of Contents. components and materials in the quantities required and at the costs specified by us, we may not be able to find alternative sources on favorable terms, in a timely manner, or at all. Our inability to obtain or to develop alternative sources if and as required could result in delays or reductions in manufacturing or product shipments. From time to time, there could be shortages of certain products or components. Moreover, the components and materials we purchase may be inferior quality products. If an inferior product supplied by a third party is embedded in our end product and causes a problem, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem as being due to the component parts. If any of these events occur, our competitive position, reputation and business could suffer.. Our ability to source a sufficient quantity of high-quality, cost-effective components used in our products may also be limited by import restrictions and duties in the foreign countries in which we manufacture our products. We require a significant number of imported components to manufacture our products, and imported electronic components and other imported goods used in the operation of our business may be limited by a variety of permit requirements, approval procedures, patent infringement claims, import duties and licensing requirements. Moreover, import duties on such components increase the cost of our products and may make them less competitive.. Our multinational operations strain our resources and subject us to various economic, political, regulatory and legal risks.. We market and sell our products globally. Our existing multinational operations require significant management attention and financial resources. To continue to manage our global business, we will need to take various actions, including:. <U+0095>enhancing management information systems, including forecasting procedures;      <U+0095>further developing our operating, administrative, financial and accounting systems and controls;     <U+0095>managing our working capital and sources of financing;      <U+0095>maintaining close coordination among our engineering, accounting, finance, marketing, sales and operations organizations;     <U+0095>successfully consolidating a number of functions in China to eliminate functional duplication;      <U+0095>retaining, training and managing our employee base;      <U+0095>reorganizing our business structure to more effectively allocate and utilize our internal resources;     <U+0095>improving and sustaining our supply chain capability; and      <U+0095>managing both our direct and indirect sales channels in a cost-efficient and competitive manner.. If we fail to implement or improve systems or controls or to manage any future growth and transformation effectively, our business could suffer.. Furthermore, multinational operations are subject to a variety of risks, such as:. <U+0095>the complexity of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate;      <U+0095>the complexity of complying with anti-corruption laws in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. These include United States regulations for foreign operations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as the anti-bribery and anti corruption laws of China and India where we conduct substantial operations. There is rigorous enforcement of anti corruption laws in the United States and in China, the violation of these laws may result in substantial monetary and even criminal sanctions;. 26. Table of Contents. <U+0095>difficulty complying with continually evolving and changing global product and communications standards and regulations for both our end products and their component technology;      <U+0095>market acceptance of our new products, including longer product acceptance periods in new markets into which we enter;     <U+0095>reliance on local original equipment manufacturers, third party distributors, resellers and agents to effectively market and sell our products;      <U+0095>unusual contract terms required by customers in developing markets;      <U+0095>changes to import and export regulations, including quotas, tariffs, licensing restrictions and other trade barriers;     <U+0095>the complexity of compliance with complex and varying taxation requirements of multiple jurisdictions;     <U+0095>evolving and unpredictable nature of the economic, regulatory, competitive and political environments;     <U+0095>reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;      <U+0095>longer accounts receivable collection periods; and      <U+0095>difficulties and costs of staffing, monitoring and managing multinational operations, including but not limited to internal controls and compliance.. In addition, many of the global markets are less developed, presenting additional economic, political, regulatory and legal risks unique to developing economies, such as the following:. <U+0095>customers that may be unable to pay for our products in a timely manner or at all;      <U+0095>new and unproven markets for our products and the telecommunications services that our products enable;     <U+0095>lack of a large, highly trained workforce;      <U+0095>difficulty in controlling local operations from our headquarters;      <U+0095>variable ethical standards and an increased potential for fraud;      <U+0095>unstable political and economic environments; and      <U+0095>lack of a secure environment for our personnel, facilities and equipment.. In particular, these factors create the potential for physical loss of inventory and misappropriation of operating assets. We have in the past experienced cases of vandalism and armed theft of our equipment that had been or was being installed in the field. If disruptions for any of these reasons become too severe in any particular market, it may become necessary for us to terminate contracts and withdraw from that market and suffer the associated costs and lost revenue.. Our success depends on continuing to hire and retain qualified personnel, including senior managers. If we are not successful in attracting and retaining these personnel and in managing key employee turnover, our business will suffer.. The success of our business depends in significant part upon the continued contributions of key technical and senior management personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. The loss of a key employee, the failure of a key employee to perform satisfactorily in his or her current position or our failure to attract and retain other key technical and senior management employees could have a significant negative impact on our operations.. 27. Table of Contents. Notwithstanding our recent workforce restructurings, to effectively manage our operations, we will need to recruit, train, assimilate, motivate and retain qualified employees, especially in China. Competition for qualified employees is intense, and the process of recruiting personnel in all fields, including technology, research and development, sales and marketing, administration and management with the combination of skills and attributes required to execute our business strategy can be difficult, time-consuming and expensive. We must implement hiring and training processes that are capable of quickly deploying qualified local residents to knowledgeably support our products and services. Alternatively, if there are an insufficient number of qualified local residents available, we might incur substantial costs importing expatriates to service new global markets. For example, we have historically experienced and continue to experience difficulty finding qualified accounting personnel knowledgeable in both U.S. and Chinese accounting standards who are Chinese residents. In addition, we made changes within our senior management team in China. We have retained our key R&D talent, but may need to strengthen our China sales force through recruitment and training. If our current senior management in China cannot maintain and /or establish key relationships with customers, governmental entities and others in China, our business in China may decline significantly. If we fail to attract, hire, assimilate or retain qualified personnel, our business would be harmed. Our recent layoffs also have an adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain critical staff. Competitors and others have in the past, and may in the future, attempt to recruit our employees. In addition, companies in the telecommunications industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that the competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. We may be the subject of these types of claims in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel. Some of these claims may result in material litigation and disruption to our operations. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves against these claims, regardless of their merit.. Currency rate fluctuations may adversely affect our cash flow and operating results.. Our business is subject to risk from changing foreign exchange rates because we conduct a substantial part of our business in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Historically, a substantial portion of our sales have been made in China and denominated in Renminbi, or RMB. We also have made significant sales denominated in Japanese Yen, Euros, and Indian Rupees. Additionally, we have exposures to emerging market currencies, which can have extreme currency volatility. Adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our cash flow and operating results. For example, during 2008, we incurred an approximately $9.9 million foreign currency loss attributed to adverse movements in currency exchange rates. Although we recorded a net foreign currency gain in 2009 and 2010, we could experience foreign currency losses in the future. Although we could attempt to manage foreign currency exposures using forward and option contracts to hedge against the risk of foreign currency rate fluctuation in the eventual net cash inflows and outflows resulting from foreign currency denominated transactions with customers, suppliers, and non-U.S. subsidiaries, we are not currently hedging such transactions. Furthermore, we would be limited in our ability to hedge our exposure to rate fluctuations in certain currencies, including the RMB, on account of governmental currency exchange control regulations that restrict currency conversion and remittance.. Thus, even if we engage in hedging activities in the future, there is no assurance that we would be successful in minimizing the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currencies may have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may not be able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities or achieve the anticipated benefits of completed acquisitions.. We have in the past acquired certain businesses, products and technologies. We will continue to evaluate acquisition prospects that would complement our existing product offerings, augment our market coverage, enhance our technological capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth. 28. Table of Contents. opportunities. To the extent we may desire to raise additional funds for purposes not currently included in our business plan, such as to take advantage of acquisition opportunities or otherwise develop new or enhanced products, respond to competitive pressures or raise capital for strategic purposes, there is no assurance that additional financing for these or other purposes would be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution of their ownership interest, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, our ability to meet our debt service obligations will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control, we may be subject to limitations on our operations, and our leverage may increase. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company, diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which we have no direct or limited prior experience, the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company, unanticipated costs and, in the case of the acquisition of financially troubled businesses, challenges as to the validity of such acquisitions from third party creditors of such businesses.. We may be unable to adequately protect the loss or misappropriation of our intellectual property, which could substantially harm our business.. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws and contractual obligations to protect our technology. We have patents issued in the United States and internationally and have pending patent applications internationally. Additional patents may not be issued from our pending patent applications, and our issued patents may not be upheld. In addition, we have, from time to time, chosen to abandon previously filed patent and trademark applications. Moreover, we may face difficulties in registering our existing trademarks in new jurisdictions in which we operate, and we may be forced to abandon or change product or service trademarks because of the unavailability of our existing trademarks or because of oppositions filed or legal challenges to our trademark filings. We cannot guarantee that the intellectual property protection measures that we have taken will be sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our technology or trademarks or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. In addition, the legal systems of many foreign countries do not protect or honor intellectual property rights to the same extent as the legal system of the United States. For example, in China, the legal system in general, and the intellectual property regime in particular, are still in the development stage. It may be very difficult, time-consuming and costly for us to attempt to enforce our intellectual property rights in these jurisdictions.. We may be subject to claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which could substantially harm our business.. The industry in which we compete is moving towards aggressive assertion, licensing, and litigation of patents and other intellectual property rights. From time to time, we have become aware of the possibility or have been notified that we may be infringing certain patents or other intellectual property rights of others. Regardless of their merit, responding to such claims could be time consuming, divert management's attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. In addition, although some of our supplier contracts provide for indemnification from the supplier with respect to losses or expenses incurred in connection with any infringement claim, certain contracts with our key suppliers do not provide for such protection. Moreover, certain of our sales contracts provide that we must indemnify our customers against claims by third parties for intellectual property rights infringement related to our products. There are no limitations on the maximum potential future payments under these guarantees. Therefore, we may incur substantial costs related to any infringement claim, which may substantially harm our results of operations and financial condition.. 29. Table of Contents. We have been and may in the future become subject to litigation to defend against claimed infringements of the rights of others or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Future litigation may also be necessary to enforce and protect our patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property litigation or threatened intellectual property litigation could be costly, and adverse determinations or settlements could result in the loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses from or pay royalties to third parties which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and/or prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products, which could cause disruptions to our operations.. In the event that there is a successful claim of infringement against us and we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted.. We are subject to risks related to our financial and strategic investments in third party businesses.. From time to time we make financial and/or strategic investments in third party businesses. We cannot be certain that such investments will be successful. In certain instances we have lost part or all of the value of such investments, resulting in a financial loss and/or the loss of potential strategic opportunities. If we have to write-down or write-off such investments, or if potential strategic opportunities do not develop as planned, our financial performance may suffer. Moreover, these investments are often illiquid, such that it may be difficult or impossible for us to monetize such investments.. In certain cases, we have invested in third party businesses that are outside of the United States. In such cases, even if we are able to successfully liquidate such investments, it may be difficult for us to repatriate the proceeds of such investments to the United States in a prompt manner due to restrictions imposed by the local laws of the jurisdictions in which we invest. If we are unable to repatriate the proceeds of our investments promptly as needed, our business could suffer.. We could incur asset impairment charges for goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets, which could negatively affect our future operating results and financial condition.. We have goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets, the value of which may decrease, or be impaired, over time. We are required to perform periodic assessments for any possible impairment of our goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets for accounting purposes. We test goodwill for impairment during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value below its carrying amount. These events or circumstances include unfavorable variances from established business plans, significant changes in forecasted results or volatility inherent in external markets and industries. We review the recoverability of the carrying value of long-lived assets held and used and long-lived assets to be disposed of whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets or asset groups may not be recoverable.. When determining whether an asset impairment has occurred or calculating such impairment for goodwill, an intangible asset or other long-lived asset, fair value is determined using the present value of estimated cash flows or comparable market values. Our valuation methodology requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on projected future cash flows, the timing of such cash flows, discount rates reflecting the risk inherent in future cash flows, perpetual growth rates, the determination of appropriate comparable entities and the determination of whether a premium or discount should be applied to these comparable entities. Projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. Changes in estimates and/or revised assumptions impacting the present value of estimated future cash flows or comparable market values may result in a. 30. Table of Contents. decrease in fair value of a reporting unit, where goodwill is tested for impairment, or a decrease in fair value of intangible assets, long-lived assets or asset groups. We may face a risk of potential impairment of goodwill and intangible assets if we fail to achieve our financial forecasts with respect to our new Internet TV business. The decrease in fair value could result in a non-cash impairment charge. For example, in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded impairment charges of $33.3 million related to long-lived assets. Any such charge may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Wireless handset products previously sold by us are subject to a wide range of environmental, health and safety laws, and may expose us to potential health and environmental liability claims.. Handset products previously sold by us are subject to a wide range of environmental, health and safety laws, including laws relating to the use, disposal and clean up of, and human exposure to, hazardous substances. There have been claims made alleging a link between the use of wireless handsets and the development or aggravation of certain cancers, including brain cancer. The scientific community is divided on whether there is a risk from wireless handset use, and if so, the magnitude of the risk. Even if there is no link established between wireless handset use and cancer, the negative publicity and possible litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the past, several plaintiffs' groups have brought class actions against wireless handset manufacturers and distributors, alleging that wireless handsets have caused cancer. To date, we have not been named in any of these actions and none of these actions have been successful. In the future we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves against similar claims, regardless of their merit. Also, claims may be successful in the future and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. Furthermore, there have been claims made alleging a link between the use of Bluetooth enabled mobile phone handsets and noise-induced hearing loss. To date, we have not been named in any of these actions. In the future we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves against similar claims, regardless of their merit. Also, claims may be successful in the future and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. We are subject to a wide range of environmental, health and safety laws and efforts to comply with such laws may be costly and may adversely impact our financial performance.. Our operations and the products we manufacture and/or sell are subject to a wide range of global environmental, health and safety laws. Compliance with existing or future environmental, health and safety laws could subject us to future costs, liabilities, impact our production capabilities, constrict our ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities and generally impact our financial performance. Some of these laws relate to the use, disposal, clean up of, and exposure to, hazardous substances. Over the last several years, the European Union (the \"EU\") countries have enacted environmental laws regulating electronic products. For example, beginning July 1, 2006, our products have been subject to laws that mandate the recycling of waste in electronic products sold in the EU and that limit or prohibit the use of certain substances in electronic products. Other countries outside of Europe are expected to adopt similar laws. We may incur additional expenses to comply with these laws.. Product defect or quality issues may divert management's attention from our business and/or result in costs and expenses that could adversely affect our operating results.. Product defects or performance quality issues could cause us to lose customers and revenue or to incur unexpected expenses. Many of our products are highly complex and may have quality deficiencies resulting from the design or manufacture of such product, or from the software or components used in the product. Often these issues are identified prior to the shipment of the products and may cause delays in market acceptance of our products, delays in shipping products to customers, or the cancellation of orders. In other cases, we may identify the quality issues after the shipment of products.. 31. Table of Contents. In such cases, we may incur unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to replace defective products or correct problems. Such pre-shipment and post-shipment quality issues could result in delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, and damage to our reputation and customer relationships. In addition, we may be required to pay damages for failed performance under certain customer contracts, and may receive claims from customers related to the performance of our products.. Business interruptions could adversely affect our business.. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, external interference with our information technology systems, incidents of terrorism and other events beyond our control that affect us, either directly or indirectly through one or more of our key suppliers. Also, our operations and markets in China and Japan are located in areas prone to earthquakes. We do not have a detailed disaster recovery plan, and the occurrence of any events like these that disrupt our business could harm our business and operating results.. We may suffer losses with respect to equipment held at customer sites, which could harm our business.. We face the risk of loss relating to our equipment held at customer sites. In some cases, our equipment held at customer sites is under contract, pending final acceptance by the customer. We generally do not hold title or risk of loss on such equipment, as title and risk of loss are typically transferred to the customer upon delivery of our equipment. However, we do not recognize revenue and accounts receivable with respect to the sale of such equipment until we obtain acceptance from the customer. If we do not obtain final acceptance, we may not be able to collect the contract price or recover this equipment or its associated costs. In other cases, particularly in China, where governmental approval is required to finalize certain contracts, inventory not under contract may be held at customer sites. We hold title and risk of loss on this inventory until the contracts are finalized and, as such, are subject to any losses incurred resulting from any damage to or loss of this inventory.. If our contract negotiations fail or if the government of China otherwise delays approving contracts, we may not recover or receive payment for this inventory. Moreover, our insurance may not cover all losses incurred if our inventory at customer sites not under contract is damaged or misappropriated prior to contract finalization. If we incur a loss relating to inventory for any of the above reasons, our financial condition, cash flows, and operating results could be harmed.. The failure of our enhanced version of our enterprise resource planning system to operate appropriately could result in material financial misstatements and/or cause delays in our filings.. During the first quarter of 2008, we implemented an enhanced version of our enterprise resource planning system. In 2009 and 2010, we continued to implement and enhance modules of this enterprise resource planning system. We depend on this system in order to timely and accurately process and report key components of our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We and our stockholders are subject to the risks associated with late filings, material misstatements to the quarterly and annual consolidated financial statements and/or financial restatements, any of which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and lead to a decline in our stock price, if the enterprise planning system fails to operate appropriately.. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\") requires that we establish and maintain an effective internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting and include a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting. Our Annual Report. 32. Table of Contents. on Form 10-K must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting that we have identified. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.. We have in the past and as of December 31, 2010 identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and have concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective as of December 31, 2010. The requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act are ongoing and also apply to future years. We expect that our internal control over financial reporting will continue to evolve as we continue in our efforts to transform our business. Although we are committed to continue to improve our internal control processes and we will continue to diligently and vigorously review our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the Section 404 requirements, any control system, regardless of how well designed, operated and evaluated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. In addition, successful remediation of the noted control deficiencies is dependent on our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully remediate our existing material weaknesses or that in the future additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies will not exist or otherwise be discovered.. RISKS RELATING TO CONDUCTING BUSINESS IN CHINA. China's governmental and regulatory reforms may impact our ability to do business in China.. Since 1978, the Chinese government has been in a state of evolution and reform. The reforms have resulted in and are expected to continue to result in significant economic and social development in China. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to change or readjustment due to a variety of political, economic and social factors. Multiple government bodies are involved in regulating and administering affairs in the telecommunications and information technology industries, among which the MIIT, the former Ministry of Information Industry, the National Development and Reform Commission or NDRC, the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission or SASAC and the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television or SARFT play the leading roles. These government agencies have broad discretion and authority over all aspects of the telecommunications and information technology industry in China, including but not limited to, setting the telecommunications tariff structure, granting carrier licenses and frequencies, approving equipment and products, granting product licenses, approving of the form and content of transmitted data, specifying technological standards as well as appointing carrier executives, all of which may impact our ability to do business in China.. Any of the following changes in China's political and economic conditions and governmental policies could have a substantial impact on our business:. <U+0095>the promulgation of new laws and regulations and the interpretation of those laws and regulations;     <U+0095>inconsistent enforcement and application of the telecommunications industry's rules and regulations by the Chinese government between foreign and domestic companies;      <U+0095>the restructuring of telecommunications carriers in China, including policy making governing next generation network infrastructure and licensing;      <U+0095>restrictions on IPTV license grants, which could limit the potential market for our products;      <U+0095>the introduction of measures to control inflation or stimulate growth;      <U+0095>the introduction of new guidelines for tariffs and service rates, which affect our ability to competitively price our products and services;. 33. Table of Contents. <U+0095>changes in the rate or method of taxation;      <U+0095>the imposition of laws, rules or regulations affecting the direct or indirect nationalization of assets controlled by non-governmental persons or entities;      <U+0095>the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and remittances abroad; or      <U+0095>any actions that limit our ability to develop, manufacture, import or sell our products in China, or to finance and operate our business in China.. In addition to modifying the existing telecommunications regulatory framework, the Chinese government is currently preparing a draft of a standard, national telecommunications law, or Telecommunications Law, to provide a uniform regulatory framework for the telecommunications industry. Currently, Telecommunications Law has been included in the law legislation plan of the Standing Committee of the 11th National People's Congress. We do not yet know the final nature or scope of the regulations that would be created if the Telecommunications Law is passed. Accordingly, we cannot predict whether it will have a positive or negative effect on us or on some or all aspects of our business.. Under China's current regulatory structure, the communications products that we offer in China must meet government and industry standards. In addition, a network access license for the equipment must be obtained. Without a license, telecommunications equipment is not allowed to be connected to public telecommunications networks or sold in China. Moreover, we must ensure that the quality of the telecommunications equipment for which we have obtained a network access license is stable and reliable, and will not negatively affect the quality or performance of other installed licensed products.. China's currency exchange control and government restrictions on dividends may impact our ability to transfer funds outside of China.. A significant portion of our business is conducted in China where the currency is the RMB. Regulations in China permit foreign owned entities to freely convert the RMB into foreign currency for transactions that fall under the \"current account,\" which includes trade related receipts and payments, interest and dividends. Accordingly, our Chinese subsidiaries may use RMB to purchase foreign exchange for settlement of such \"current account\" transactions without pre-approval. However, pursuant to applicable regulations, foreign-invested enterprises in China may pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In calculating accumulated profits, foreign investment enterprises in China are required to allocate at least 10% of their accumulated profits each year, if any, to fund certain reserve funds, including mandated employee benefits funds, unless these reserves have reached 50% of the registered capital of the enterprises.. Transactions other than those that fall under the \"current account\" and that involve conversion of RMB into foreign currency are classified as \"capital account\" transactions; examples of \"capital account\" transactions include repatriations of investment by or loans to foreign owners, or direct equity investments in a foreign entity by a China domiciled entity. \"Capital account\" transactions require prior approval from China's State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, or its provincial branch to convert a remittance into a foreign currency, such as U.S. Dollars, and transmit the foreign currency outside of China.. This system could be changed at any time and any such change may affect the ability of us or our subsidiaries in China to repatriate capital or profits, if any, outside China. Furthermore, SAFE has a significant degree of administrative discretion in implementing the laws and has used this discretion to limit convertibility of current account payments out of China. Whether as a result of a deterioration in the Chinese balance of payments, a shift in the Chinese macroeconomic prospects or any number of other reasons, China could impose additional restrictions on capital remittances abroad. As a result of. 34. Table of Contents. these and other restrictions under the laws and regulations of the People's Republic of China, or the PRC, our China subsidiaries are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net assets to the parent. We have no assurance that the relevant Chinese governmental authorities in the future will not limit further or eliminate the ability of our Chinese subsidiaries to purchase foreign currencies and transfer such funds to us to meet our liquidity or other business needs. Any inability to access funds in China, if and when needed for use by us outside of China, could have a material and adverse effect on our liquidity and our business.. Fluctuations in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. Dollar could affect our operating results and may have a material adverse effect on your investment.. We prepare our financial statements in U.S. Dollars, while our underlying businesses operate in two currencies, U.S. Dollars and Chinese RMB. It is anticipated that we will conduct our operations in China primarily in RMB. The conversion of financial information using a functional currency of RMB will be subject to risks related to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The value of RMB against the U.S. Dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China's political and economic conditions and supply and demand in local markets. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. Dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a managed band based on market supply and demand and by reference to a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in a 20% appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. Dollar between July 21, 2005 and December 31, 2010. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which may result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. Dollar. As we have significant operations in China, any significant revaluation of the RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenue, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ordinary shares in U.S. Dollars. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. Dollars into RMB for our operations, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. Dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. Dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. Dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. Dollar amount available to us.. If China imposes economic restrictions to reduce inflation, future economic growth in China could be severely curtailed, reducing the profitability of our operations in China.. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the supply of money and rising inflation. If prices for any products or services in China are unable, for any reason, to increase at a rate that is sufficient to compensate for any increase in the costs of supplies, materials or labor, it may have an adverse effect on our operations in China. In order to control inflation in the past, China has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending and could adopt additional measures to further combat inflation. Such measures could harm the economy generally and hurt our business by (i) limiting the income of our customers available to spend on our products and services, (ii) forcing us to lower our profit margins, and (iii) limiting our ability to obtain credit or other financing to pursue our expansion plans or maintain our business. We cannot predict with any certainty the degree to which our business will be adversely affected by slower economic growth in China.. 35. Table of Contents. China's changing economic environment may impact our ability to do business in China.. Since 1978, the Chinese government has been reforming the economic system in China to increase the emphasis placed on decentralization and the utilization of market forces in the development of China's economy. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth. However, any economic reform policies or measures in China may from time to time be modified or revised by the Chinese government. While we may be able to benefit from the effects of some of these policies, these policies and other measures taken by the Chinese government to regulate the economy could also have a significant negative impact on economic conditions in China, which would result in a negative impact on our business.. China's entry into the World Trade Organization and relaxation of trade restrictions have led to increased foreign investment in China's telecommunications industry and may lead to increased competition in our markets which may have an adverse impact on our business.. China's economic environment has been changing as a result of China's entry, in December of 2001, into the World Trade Organization or WTO. Foreign investment in the telecommunications sector is regulated by the \"Provisions on Administration of Foreign Invested Telecommunications Enterprises\" promulgated by the State Council in December 2001 and effective as of January 1, 2002, which was amended on September 10, 2008. The provisions brought foreign equity limits into conformity with China's WTO commitments, allowing foreign investors to own equity generally up to 49% for basic telecom services enterprises and up to 50% for value-added telecom services enterprises.. As the existing international vendors increase their investment in China, and more vendors enter the China market, the competition in the telecommunication equipment market may increase, and as a result, our business may suffer. If China's entry into the WTO results in increased competition or has a negative impact on China's economy, our business could suffer. In addition, although China is increasingly according foreign companies and foreign investment enterprises established in China the same rights and privileges as Chinese domestic companies as a result of its admission into the WTO, special laws, administrative rules and regulations governing foreign companies and foreign investment enterprises in China may still place foreign companies at a disadvantage in relation to Chinese domestic companies and may adversely affect our competitive position.. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system may adversely affect us.. We conduct our business in China primarily through our wholly owned subsidiaries incorporated in China. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China. Accordingly, our business might be affected by China's developing legal system. Since 1978, many new laws and regulations covering general economic matters have been promulgated in China, and the overall effect of legislation over the past 30 years has enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. However, foreign investors may be adversely affected by new laws, frequent changes to existing laws (or interpretations thereof) and preemption of provincial or local regulations by national laws or regulations. In addition, certain government policies and internal rules promulgated by governmental agencies may not be published in time, or at all. As a result, we may operate our business in violation of new rules and policies without having any knowledge of their existence. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions have limited precedential value. Because many laws, rules and policies in China are relatively new and the Chinese legal system is still evolving, the interpretation and enforcement of laws, rules and policies in China are not always uniform and involve uncertainties. The Chinese government has broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws, rules and policies, including levying fines, revoking business and other licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance, and enforcement of existing laws or contracts based on existing law may be sporadic; therefore, it may be difficult to predict the effect of existing or new Chinese laws, rules or policies on our businesses and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable. 36. Table of Contents. enforcement, or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. Any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management's attention.. A significant portion of our assets is located in the PRC, and all of our executive officers and a majority of our directors reside outside of the United States. As a result, investors may not be able to enforce federal securities laws or their other legal rights.. A substantial portion of our assets is located in the PRC and all of our executive officers and a majority of our directors reside outside of the United States. The PRC does not have treaties with the United States and many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts. As a result, it may be difficult for investors in the U.S. to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon certain of our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties against our directors and officers located outside of the U.S.. If tax benefits available to our subsidiaries located in China are reduced or repealed, our business could suffer.. On March 16, 2007, China's top legislature, the National People's Congress, passed the China Corporate Income Tax Law or the CIT Law. The CIT Law became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the CIT Law, China's dual tax system for domestic enterprises and foreign investment enterprises or FIEs are effectively replaced by a unified system. The new law establishes a tax rate of 25% for most enterprises and a reduced tax rate of 15% for certain qualified high technology enterprises.. Prior to this change in tax law, certain subsidiaries and joint ventures located in China enjoyed tax benefits in China which were generally available to FIEs. The tax holidays/incentives for FIEs were applicable or potentially applicable to UTStarcom ChongQing Telecom Co. Ltd. or CUTS, UTStarcom Telecom Co., Ltd. or HUTS, and UTStarcom China Co., Ltd. or UTSC, our active subsidiaries in China, because these entities may have qualified as accredited technologically advanced enterprises.. The CIT Law provides the reduced 15% enterprise income tax rate for qualified high and new technology enterprises. Two of UTStarcom's China subsidiaries, HUTS and UTSC, through which the majority of our business in China is conducted, obtained their High and New Technology Enterprise Certificates, or High-tech Certificates, from the relevant approval authorities on September 19, 2008 and December 30, 2008, respectively, and thereafter were approved to pay CIT at the reduced tax rate of 15%. The approval for the reduced 15% tax rate is valid for three years and applies retroactively from January 1, 2008, subject to possible re-assessment by the approval authorities. During the re-assessment, the tax authority may suspend the implementation of the reduced 15% rate. HUTS's High-tech Certificate will expire on September 19, 2011 and UTSC's High-tech Certificate will expire on December 30, 2011. HUTS and UTSC may apply for the extension of their respective High-tech Certificates prior to the expiration date of the respective certificates and, if approved, each extended term will be three years. If HUTS or UTSC fails to pass the re-assessment by the approval authorities or fails to renew its High-tech Certificate, the preferential tax rate of 15% will cease to apply and HUTS or UTSC would be subject to a tax rate of 25%. However, since both entities are currently in significant loss positions, the change in tax rate will not have a material adverse impact on the business or liquidity until the two PRC subsidiaries begin to generate profit and deplete all the net operating loss carry forwards.. The Chinese central government may review and audit tax benefits granted by local or provincial authorities and could determine to disallow such benefits. Certain of our subsidiaries and joint ventures located in China enjoy tax benefits in China that are generally available to foreign investment enterprises. If these tax benefits are reduced, disallowed or repealed due to changes in tax laws or determination by the Chinese government, our business could suffer.. 37. Table of Contents. Under the CIT Law, we may be classified as a \"resident enterprise\" of the PRC, which could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and to non-PRC stockholders.. Under the CIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with \"de facto management bodies\" within China is considered a \"resident enterprise\", meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the CIT Law define de facto management as \"substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties\" of the enterprise. The CIT Law and its implementing rules are relatively new and ambiguous in terms of some definitions, requirements and detailed procedures, and currently no official interpretation or application of this new \"resident enterprise\" classification, other than for enterprises established outside of China whose main holding investor/s is/are enterprise/s established in China, is available; therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case.. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a \"resident enterprise\" for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, the PRC could impose a 10% PRC tax on dividends we pay to our non-PRC stockholders and gains derived by our non-PRC stockholders from transferring our shares, if such income is considered PRC-sourced income by the relevant PRC authorities. In addition, we could be subject to a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences, including: (a) we could be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income, as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations; and (b) although under the CIT Law and its implementing rules, dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries through our sub-holding companies may qualify as \"tax-exempt income\", we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to withholding tax. Any increase in the taxation of our PRC-based revenues could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. We face uncertainty from PRC's Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax on Non-Resident Enterprises' Equity Transfer, or Circular 698.. The Chinese State Administration of Taxation, or SAT, released a circular on December 10, 2009, applicable to transactions as of January 1, 2008 (Guoshuihan No. 698 - Circular 698), that addresses the transfer of equity by non-PRC tax resident enterprises. Under Circular 698, foreign enterprises deriving gains from transfer of the equity of a PRC tax resident enterprise directly or indirectly might be subject to PRC withholding income tax, which may have a significant impact on many foreign enterprises that use overseas intermediate holding companies to invest in China. In certain circumstances where a foreign enterprise indirectly transfers equity interests in a PRC tax resident enterprise by selling the equity interests in an intermediate holding company, the foreign enterprise may be required to report the sale to PRC tax authorities and might be subject to PRC withholding income tax for the capital gain realized in the sale if such indirect transfer is conducted through the use of abusive arrangement of organizational structure and does not have reasonable commercial purpose.. There is still uncertainty as to the interpretation and application of Circular 698 by PRC tax authorities in practice. As a result, we may be subject to tax under Circular 698 with respect to indirect transfers of our PRC tax resident enterprises and we may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 or to establish that we should not be taxed under Circular 698, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The Personal Access System market will decline rapidly over the next year.. We believe the Personal Access System, PAS, market has matured. PAS is available in most of the provinces throughout China and competition from mobile operators has increased in cities where PAS is deployed. Mobile operators offering special promotional pricing or incentives to customers, such as free incoming calls or free mobile-to-mobile calls, have reduced PAS subscription growth. The. 38. Table of Contents. expansion of mobile operators in China is likely to have a material adverse effect on our pricing and harm our business or results of operations.. MIIT has granted 3G mobile licenses to China Telecom, China Mobile and China Unicom and has significantly reduced capital expenditures relating to PAS networks that utilize our existing products. In addition, on January 9, 2009, in connection with the granting of 1900-1920 MHz frequency 3G licenses to the mobile communication companies in China, the MIIT officially issued a notice to unconditionally phase out the Personal Handy-phone System or PHS by the end of 2011 to guarantee the bandwidth for China's 3G services using time division synchronous code division multiple access, or TD-SCDMA technology, and requested China Telecom and China Netcom (both PAS service providers in China) to formulate a phase-out plan for their PHS services, and to cease the registration of new PHS users and expansion of the network. This may lead to the shutting down of PAS networks by such time.. Historically, China's telecommunications sector has been subject to a number of state-mandated restructurings. Any future restructurings in the telecommunications industry may result in delay or cancellation of telecommunications-related capital expenditures, which may have an adverse effect on our business.. Television over the internet is a new business in China and laws regulating the business have not been fully developed and may be unpredictable. Unfavorable regulation of the industry may adversely affect our IPTV operations in China and negatively impact our business.. Broadcasting television over the internet has only recently begun in China. SARFT, the central government's regulatory body, issued a measure in July 2004 to regulate the broadcasting of audio-visual programs through the information network, which includes our Internet Protocol television, or IPTV, business. SARFT categorized the information network into the mobile telecommunication network, fixed communications network, microwave communication network, cable television network, satellite or other metropolitan area network, wide area network, local area network and other information networks categories. The equipment that receives information from these networks includes computers, television sets, mobile phones and other electronic products. In December 2007, MIIT and SARFT jointly issued a measure to regulate the service of audio-visual programs on the internet, which also includes our IPTV business. This measure requires the entities engaged in the services of audio-visual program on the internet to be owned or controlled by the State owned entities. However, on February 3, 2008, SARFT and MIIT jointly held a press conference in response to inquiries related to such measure, during which SARFT and MIIT officials indicated that service providers of audio-video program established prior to the promulgation date of such measure that do not have any regulatory non-compliance records can apply for such permit to continue their business. After the conference, the two authorities published a press release that confirmed the above guidelines. While regulating the IPTV business, SARFT is encouraging development in China of the digital television business, a business that may be competitive with IPTV in the target market. Digital television and IPTV target complementary markets and the extent of support SARFT will provide for IPTV in setting regulations is not clear. On February 3, 2010, the SARFT agreed to allow China Telecom to apply to SARFT for approval of an IPTV license to expand its IPTV trial to more cities and industries. Because the IPTV industry relates to both television and telecom sectors, it may be subject to regulation by different governmental authorities, including MIIT. However, due to a lack of uniform regulation on the development of the IPTV industry, we cannot predict that our IPTV business will operate smoothly in China. Our business may suffer if the law or policy in China does not encourage the IPTV industry.. 39. Table of Contents. We currently do not have a license to engage in the IPTV operator service business in China and development of our IPTV business depends upon the cooperation of IPTV license holder(s) and network operators. If we are unable to work cooperatively with license holder(s) and network operators, our business may suffer.. Under the measures issued by SARFT in July 2004, entities intending to engage in the IPTV operator service business should obtain a license from SARFT and foreign investment enterprises are prohibited from engaging in the IPTV operator service business. The new measure jointly issued by MIIT and SARFT indicates that SARFT will only grant such licenses to state-owned companies. However, on February 3, 2008, SARFT and MIIT jointly held a press conference in response to inquiries related to such measure, during which SARFT and MIIT officials indicated that service providers of audio-video program established prior to the promulgation date of such measure that do not have any regulatory non-compliance records can apply for such permit to continue their business. After the conference, the two authorities published a press release that confirmed the above guidelines. We do not engage in the IPTV operator service business in the PRC. Rather, we are the technical service and equipment provider in this field. Accordingly, we do not need any licenses or permission to provide our technical services or equipment to licensed IPTV operators other than the network access licenses we currently hold; however, our business development will depend on the cooperation of license holders and network operators. Our business may suffer if we fail to cooperate with license holders or network operators, or if the license holder(s) we are cooperating with lose their licenses.. Recent PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents and employee stock options granted by overseas-listed companies may increase our administrative burden. If our shareholders who are PRC residents, or our PRC employees who are granted or exercise stock options, fail to make any required registrations or filings, we may be unable to distribute profits and may become subject to liability under PRC laws.. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, has promulgated regulations that require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. Under the SAFE regulations, PRC residents who make, or have previously made, direct or indirect investments in offshore companies will be required to register those investments. In addition, any PRC resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of an offshore company is required to file or update the registration with the local branch of SAFE with respect to that offshore company any material change involving its round-trip investment, capital variation, such as an increase or decrease in capital, transfer or swap of shares, merger, division, long-term equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest. If any PRC shareholder fails to make the required SAFE registration or file or update the registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore parent company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to their offshore parent company, and the offshore parent company may also be prohibited from injecting additional capital into its PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions.. We cannot provide any assurances that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our PRC subsidiaries' ability to distribute dividends or obtain foreign-exchange denominated loans to our company.. On March 28, 2007, SAFE promulgated the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas Listed Company , or the or Stock Option Rule, to regulate foreign exchange procedures for PRC individuals participating in employee stock holding and stock option plans of. 40. Table of Contents. overseas companies. Under the Stock Option Rule, a PRC domestic individual must comply with various foreign exchange procedures through a domestic agent institution when participating in any employee stock holding plan or stock option plan of an overseas listed company. Certain domestic agent institutions, such as the PRC subsidiaries of an overseas listed company, a labor union of such company that is a legal person or a qualified financial institution, among others things, shall file with SAFE and be responsible for completing relevant foreign exchange procedures on behalf of PRC domestic individuals, such as applying to obtain SAFE approval for exchanging foreign currency in connection with owning stock or stock option exercises. Concurrent with the filing of such applications with SAFE, the PRC subsidiary, as a domestic agent, must obtain approval from SAFE to open a special foreign exchange account at a PRC domestic bank to hold the funds in connection with the stock purchase or option exercise, any returns based on stock sales, any stock dividends issued and any other income or expenditures approved by SAFE. The PRC subsidiary also is required to obtain approval from SAFE to open an overseas special foreign exchange account at an overseas trust bank to hold overseas funds used in connection with any stock purchase. The domestic agent institution is required to make a quarterly filing with SAFE to update SAFE with relevant information, including the exercise of options by employees, the holding of shares by employees and the funds in the special foreign exchange account and the overseas special foreign exchange account.. Under the Stock Option Rule, all proceeds obtained by PRC domestic individuals from sales of stock shall be fully remitted back to China after relevant overseas expenses are deducted. The foreign exchange proceeds from these sales can be converted into RMB or transferred to the individual's foreign exchange savings account after the proceeds have been remitted back to the special foreign exchange account opened at the PRC domestic bank. If the stock option is exercised in a cashless exercise, the PRC domestic individuals are required to remit the proceeds to the special foreign exchange account. The Stock Option Rule does not provide for specific forms of penalties for noncompliance but provides that SAFE may impose penalties in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Administration Regulation, Implementing Rules for Individual Foreign Exchange Regulation and other related PRC regulations under which the penalties for noncompliance with foreign exchange administration rules include fines against the both the company and its implicated employees.. We and our PRC employees who have been granted stock options are subject to the Stock Option Rule. In May 2008, UTSC, one of our PRC subsidiaries, made a filing with SAFE's Beijing branch as required by the Stock Option Rule for UTSC's PRC employees who participate in our employee stock option plans and UTSC obtained approval to open a special foreign exchange account at a PRC domestic bank. UTStarcom Telecom Co., Ltd. and UTStarcom (Chong Qing) Telcom Co., Ltd., two of our PRC subsidiaries, are in the process of preparing the necessary filings under the Stock Option Rule for its PRC employees who participate in our employee stock option plan.. Restrictions on direct foreign investments in certain business sectors, such as IPTV, iDTV and Internet TV service businesses, may require that we enter into contractual arrangements with our Chinese business partners, which are subject to potential risks and uncertainties.. We anticipate that providing value-added support services to businesses in the telecom, cable and/or media sectors, such as IPTV, interactive digital television, or iDTV, and Internet television, or Internet TV, services businesses, will be a significant component of our future business model. IPTV, iDTV and Internet TV are Internet protocol-based interactive television services provided via a set-top box. We will provide operators engaging in these businesses with services, including equipment installation, system installation and maintenance, technical services and other value-added services, in return for long term income. We anticipate that these value-added support services will play an important role in the growth of our business.. Direct foreign investments are subject to certain restrictions with respect to the operating of telecom, cable and media businesses. Under the \"Telecommunications Regulations\" issued by the State. 41. Table of Contents. Council on September 25, 2000 and the \"Provisions on Administration of Foreign Invested Telecommunications Enterprises\" issued by the State Council on December 11, 2001, amended on September 10, 2008, the shareholding of foreign investors is limited to up to 49% for basic telecom business and is limited to up to 50% for value-added telecom business. Under the \"Measures on Administration of Publication of Audio-Visual Programs through Internet or Other Information Network\" issued by SARFT on July 6, 2004, the \"Administration Measures on Transmitting Business of Radio and Television Programs\" issued by SARFT on July 6, 2004, the \"Administration Measures on Wireless Transmitting Web of Radio and Television Programs\" issued by SARFT on November 15, 2004, the \"Administrative Provisions on Internet Audio-visual Program Service\" jointly issued by SARFT and MIIT on December 20, 2007, and the related implementing rules of these regulations, foreign investors are prohibited from holding any equity interest in enterprises operating IPTV, iDTV and Internet TV business in the PRC.. Because of the regulatory restrictions on direct foreign investments in the telecom, cable and/or media sectors, we may conduct business through contractual relationships with Chinese business partners that are licensed or qualified to operate such businesses, or the Operating Companies. Our PRC subsidiaries may directly or indirectly provide certain technology services to the Operating Companies through an arrangement of technology service agreements and will receive service fees directly or indirectly form Operating Companies. To ensure the payment of the service fee by Operating Companies, the shareholders of Operating Companies may pledge their equity interests in Operating Companies to our PRC subsidiaries or affiliates. There may also be a call option arrangement so that our PRC subsidiaries may purchase the equity interests in Operating Companies if they are permitted by the laws of the PRC.. The contractual arrangements are subject to potential risks and uncertainties and may not be as effective in providing operational control and economic benefits as direct equity ownership. If the PRC authorities determine that the contractual arrangements are designed with a view to circumvent PRC foreign investment restrictions and do not comply with PRC regulations, the validity and enforceability of the contractual arrangements may be of question. Chinese tax authorities may scrutinize the contractual arrangements for whether the technology service fee paid by Operating Companies to our PRC subsidiaries or affiliates will substantially reduce the income tax and business tax payable by the Operating Companies. Additionally, there is uncertainty with respect to the attitude of judicial authorities on the enforceability of the contractual arrangements in the event Operating Companies or their shareholders breach the contracts. The inability to participate in the telecom, cable and/or media sectors as presently expected through the contractual arrangements or the inability to enforce our rights under such contractual arrangements could result in a negative impact on our business.. RISKS RELATING TO PERFORMANCE OF OUR SHARES. Our stock price is highly volatile.. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly since our initial public offering in March of 2000. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in the future in response to many events or factors, including those discussed in the preceding risk factors relating to our operations, as well as:. <U+0095>actual or anticipated fluctuations in operating results, actual or anticipated gross profit as a percentage of net sales, levels of inventory, our actual or anticipated rate of growth and our actual or anticipated earnings per share;      <U+0095>changes in expectations as to future financial performance or changes in financial estimates or buy/sell recommendations of securities analysts;. 42. Table of Contents. <U+0095>changes in governmental regulations or policies in China and other developing countries in which we do business;     <U+0095>our, or a competitor's, announcement of new products, services or technological innovations;      <U+0095>the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; and      <U+0095>news and commentary emanating from the media, securities analysts or government bodies in China relating to us and to the industry in general.. General market conditions and domestic or international macroeconomic factors unrelated to our performance may also affect our stock price. For these reasons, investors should not rely on recent trends to predict future stock prices or financial results. Furthermore, following periods of volatility in a company's securities, securities class action litigation against a company is sometimes instituted. We have experienced substantial costs and the diversion of management's time and resources on this type of litigation and may do so in the future.. In addition, public announcements by China Telecom, China Mobile, and China Unicom each of which exert significant influence over many of our major customers in the PRC, may contribute to volatility in the price of our stock.. SOFTBANK CORP. with its related entities, including SOFTBANK America Inc., and E-Town International Holding (Hong Kong) Co. Limited have significant influence over our management and affairs, which they could exercise against the best interests of our stockholders.. SOFTBANK CORP. and its related entities, including SOFTBANK America Inc. (collectively, \"SOFTBANK\") and E-Town International Holding (Hong Kong) Co. Limited (\"E-Town\"), beneficially owned approximately 9.4% and 7.3%, respectively of our outstanding stock as of March 1, 2011. As a result, SOFTBANK and E-Town have the ability to influence all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, as well as our management and affairs. Matters that could require stockholder approval include:. <U+0095>election and removal of directors;      <U+0095>our merger or consolidation with or into another entity; and      <U+0095>sale of all or substantially all of our assets.. This concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which could decrease the market price of our common stock.. Delaware law and our charter documents contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if the transaction would benefit our stockholders.. Other companies may seek to acquire or merge with us. Our acquisition or merger could result in benefits to our stockholders, including an increase in the value of our common stock. Some provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include:. <U+0095>authorizing the board of directors to issue additional preferred stock;      <U+0095>prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors;      <U+0095>limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders;      <U+0095>prohibiting stockholder action by written consent;. 43. Table of Contents. <U+0095>creating a classified board of directors pursuant to which our directors are elected for staggered three year terms;     <U+0095>establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and      <U+0095>requiring for-cause removal of directors.. Our failure to timely file periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, could result in the delisting of our shares from NASDAQ, affect the liquidity of our shares and cause us to default on covenants contained in contractual arrangements.. If we are unable to maintain compliance with the conditions for continued listing required by NASDAQ, then our shares of common stock may be subject to delisting from NASDAQ. For example, as a result of our failure to timely file with the SEC our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended September 30, 2006, March 31, 2007, June 30, 2007 and March 31, 2008 and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, we were not in full compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5250(c)(1), which requires us to make, on a timely basis, all filings with the SEC required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. While we returned to full compliance with NASDAQ's listing requirements on May 15, 2008, we are required to comply with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5250(c)(1) as a condition for our common stock to continue to be listed on NASDAQ. If our shares of common stock are delisted from NASDAQ, our common stock may not be eligible to trade on any national securities exchange or the over-the counter market. If our common stock is no longer traded through a market system, its liquidity may be greatly reduced, which could negatively affect its price. In addition, we may be unable to obtain future equity financing, or use our common stock as consideration for mergers or other business combinations. A delisting from NASDAQ may also have other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest, and fewer business development opportunities and could lead to a default under certain of our contractual arrangements."
