[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.. Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The risks described below should carefully be considered together with the other information contained in this report.. 18. Risks Related to Our Business. We are subject to the risk of prolonged weakness in general economic conditions including adverse effects on the overall travel and leisure related industries. Skiing, travel and tourism are discretionary recreational activities that can entail a relatively high cost of participation and may be adversely affected by economic slowdown or recession. Economic conditions in North America, Europe and parts of the rest of the world, including high unemployment, erosion of consumer confidence, sovereign debt issues and financial instability in the global markets, may potentially have negative effects on the travel and leisure industry and on our results of operations. As a result of these and other economic uncertainties, we have previously experienced and may experience in the future, among other items, a change in booking trends such that guest reservations are made much closer to the actual date of stay, a decrease in the length of stay and/or a decrease in group bookings. We cannot predict what impact these uncertainties may have on overall travel and leisure or more specifically, on our guest visitation, guest spending or other related trends and the ultimate impact it will have on our results of operations. Additionally, the actual or perceived fear of weakness in the economy could also lead to decreased spending by our guests. This could further be exacerbated by the fact that we charge some of the highest prices for single day lift tickets and ancillary services in the ski industry. In the event of a decrease in visitation and overall guest spending we may be required to offer a higher amount of discounts and incentives than we have historically, which would adversely impact our operating results. Our resorts also serve as a destination for international guests. To the extent there are material changes in exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar, it could impact the volume of international visitation.. We are vulnerable to unfavorable weather conditions and the impact of natural disasters. Our ability to attract guests to our resorts is influenced by weather conditions and by the amount and timing of snowfall during the ski season. Unfavorable weather conditions can adversely affect skier visits and our revenue and profits. Unseasonably warm weather may result in inadequate natural snowfall and reduce skiable terrain, which increases the cost of snowmaking and could render snowmaking, wholly or partially, ineffective in maintaining quality skiing conditions, including in areas which are not accessible by snowmaking equipment. In addition, a severe and prolonged drought could affect our otherwise adequate snowmaking water supplies or increase the cost of snowmaking. Excessive natural snowfall may significantly increase the costs incurred to groom trails and may make it difficult for guests to access our mountain resorts. In the past 20 years, our resorts in the Rocky Mountain region of Colorado and Utah, the Sierra Nevada Mountains in Lake Tahoe and the Coast Mountains in British Columbia, Canada have averaged between 20 and 39 feet of annual snowfall, which is significantly in excess of the average for North American ski resorts. However, there can be no assurance that our resorts will receive seasonal snowfalls near their historical average in the future. For example, we experienced historically low snowfall across our western U.S. resorts for the first half of the 2017/2018 ski season, with snowfall in Vail, Beaver Creek and Park City through January 31, 2018 at the lowest levels recorded in over 30 years while Tahoe was more than 50% below the 20-year average. Past snowfall levels or consistency of snow conditions can impact the levels of sales of season passes. Additionally, the early season snow conditions and skier perceptions of early season snow conditions can influence the momentum and success of the overall ski season. Unfavorable weather conditions can adversely affect our resorts and lodging properties as guests tend to delay or postpone vacations if conditions differ from those that typically prevail at such resorts for a given season. The potential effects of climate change could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations as warmer overall temperatures would likely adversely affect snowfall, which in turn would likely adversely affect skier visits and our revenue and profits. Although we have created geographic diversification to help mitigate the impact of weather variability, there is no way for us to predict future weather patterns or the impact that weather patterns may have on our results of operations or visitation.. A severe natural disaster, such as a forest fire, may interrupt our operations, damage our properties, reduce the number of guests who visit our resorts in affected areas and negatively impact our revenue and profitability. Damage to our properties could take a long time to repair and there is no guarantee that we would have adequate insurance to cover the costs of repair and recoup lost profits. Furthermore, such a disaster may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties or require evacuations and may cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period. The ability to attract visitors to our resorts is also influenced by the aesthetics and natural beauty of the outdoor environment where our resorts are located. A severe forest fire or other severe impacts from naturally occurring events could negatively impact the natural beauty of our resorts and have a long-term negative impact on our overall guest visitation as it would take several years for the environment to recover.. Failure to maintain the integrity and security of our internal, employee or guest data could result in damages to our reputation and subject us to costs, fines or lawsuits. Our business relies on the use of large volumes of data. We collect and retain guest data, including credit card numbers and other personal information, for various business purposes, including transactional marketing and promotional purposes. We also maintain personal information about our employees. We store and use data in a variety of information systems, including some systems maintained by service providers. Maintaining the integrity and security of that data can be costly and is critical to our business, and our guests and employees have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information.. 19. Cyber-attacks could disrupt our business. Despite our efforts, information networks and systems are vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. In recent years, there has been a rise in the number of sophisticated cyber-attacks on network and information systems, and as a result, the risks associated with such an event continue to increase. We have experienced, and expect to continue to be subject to, cybersecurity threats and incidents, none of which has been material to us to date. Although we have taken, and continue to take steps to address these concerns by implementing network security and internal controls, there can be no assurance that a system interruption, security breach or unauthorized access will not occur.  Cyber threats and attacks are constantly evolving and becoming more sophisticated, which increases the difficulty and cost of detecting and defending against them. Cyber threats and attacks can have cascading impacts across networks and systems. Those events may include process breakdowns, security architecture or design vulnerabilities, or may result from the acts of third parties, such as computer hackings, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering or other malicious activities. Any such interruption, breach or unauthorized access to our network or systems could adversely affect our business operations and result in the loss of critical or sensitive confidential information or intellectual property, and could result in financial, legal, business and reputational harm to us. These events also could result in large expenditures to repair or replace the damaged properties, products, services, networks or information systems to protect them from similar events in the future.. Leisure and business travel are particularly susceptible to various factors outside of our control, including terrorism, the uncertainty of military conflicts, outbreaks of contagious diseases, the cost and availability of travel options and change in consumer preferences. Our business is sensitive to the willingness of our guests to travel. Acts of terrorism, the spread of contagious diseases, political events and developments in military conflicts in areas of the world from which we draw our guests could depress the public's propensity to travel and cause severe disruptions in both domestic and international air travel and consumer discretionary spending, which could reduce the number of visitors to our resorts and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Many of our guests travel by air and the impact of higher prices for commercial airline services and availability of air services could cause a decrease in visitation by Destination guests to our resorts. A significant portion of our guests also travel by vehicle and higher gasoline prices could adversely impact our guests' willingness to travel to our resorts. Higher cost of travel may also affect the amount that guests are willing to spend at our resorts and could negatively impact our revenue particularly for lodging, ski school, dining and retail/rental.. Additionally, our success depends on our ability to attract visitors to our ski resorts. Changes in consumer tastes and preferences, particularly those affecting the popularity of skiing and snowboarding, and other social and demographic trends could adversely affect the number of skier visits during a ski season. A significant decline in skier visits compared to historical levels would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our business is highly seasonal. Our mountain and lodging operations are highly seasonal in nature. Peak operating season for our North American mountain resorts is from late November to late April, and accordingly, revenue and profits from our mountain and most of our lodging operations are substantially lower and historically result in losses from late spring to late fall. Conversely, peak operating seasons for Perisher, GTLC and Flagg Ranch, mountain summer activities (including our Epic Discovery program), sightseeing and our golf courses generally occur from June to the end of September. Revenue and profits generated by Perisher, GTLC and Flagg Ranch, mountain summer activities/sightseeing and golf peak season operations are not nearly sufficient to fully offset our off-season losses from our other mountain and lodging operations. For Fiscal 2018, 78% of total combined Mountain and Lodging segment net revenue (excluding Lodging segment revenue associated with reimbursement of payroll costs) was earned during our second and third fiscal quarters. This seasonality is partially mitigated by the sale of season passes (which for Fiscal 2018 accounted for approximately 47% of the total lift revenue) predominately occurring during the period prior to the start of the ski season as the cash from those sales is collected in advance and revenue is mostly recognized in the second and third quarters. In addition, the timing of major holidays and school breaks can impact vacation patterns and therefore visitation at our mountain resorts and urban ski areas. If we were to experience an adverse event or realize a significant deterioration in our operating results during our peak periods (our fiscal second and third quarters) we would be unable to fully recover any significant declines due to the seasonality of our business. Operating results for any three-month period are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for any subsequent quarter or for a full fiscal year (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).. As a result legislation enacted in 2011, the Forest Service is authorized to permit year-round recreational activities on land owned by the Forest Service. This allows our mountain resorts on Forest Service land to offer more summer-season recreational opportunities, including our Epic Discovery program that we have launched at Heavenly, Vail and Breckenridge. We anticipate that as these summer activities mature, and with Whistler Blackcomb's robust summer activities and the activities at our other resorts, we could realize substantial incremental summer guest visitation and revenue. However, our summer activities may not generate the projected revenue and profit margins we expect, and even if our future plans are successful, we do not expect that these enhanced summer operations will fully mitigate the seasonal losses that our mountain operations experience from late spring to late fall.. 20. We face significant competition. The ski resort and lodging industries are highly competitive. The number of U.S. skier visits has generally ranged between 51 million and 61 million annually over the last decade, with approximately 53.3 million visits for the 2017/2018 U.S. ski season. There are approximately 470 ski areas in the U.S. that serve local and destination guests, and these ski areas can be more or less impacted by weather conditions based on their location and snowmaking capabilities. The factors that we believe are important to customers include:. • proximity to population centers;. • availability and cost of transportation to ski areas;. • availability and quality of lodging options in resort areas;. • ease of travel to ski areas (including direct flights by major airlines);. • pricing of lift tickets and/or season passes and the magnitude, quality and price of related ancillary services (ski school, dining and retail/rental), amenities and lodging;. • snowmaking facilities;. • type and quality of skiing and snowboarding offered;. • duration of the ski season;. • weather conditions; and. • reputation.. There are many competing options for our guests, including other major resorts in Colorado, Utah, California, Nevada, the Pacific Northwest, Southwest and British Columbia, Canada, and other major destination ski areas worldwide. Our guests can choose from any of these alternatives, as well as non-skiing vacation options and destinations around the world. In addition, other forms of leisure such as sporting events and participation in other competing indoor and outdoor recreational activities are available to potential guests.. RockResorts hotels, our other hotels and our property management business compete with numerous other hotel and property management companies that may have greater financial resources than we do and they may be able to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to promotion of their offerings than us.. The high fixed cost structure of mountain resort operations can result in significantly lower margins if revenues decline. The cost structure of our mountain resort operations has a significant fixed component with variable expenses including, but not limited to, land use permit or lease fees and other resort related fees; credit card fees; retail/rental cost of sales; labor; and resort, dining and ski school operations. Any material declines in the economy, elevated geopolitical uncertainties and/or significant changes in historical snowfall patterns, as well as other risk factors discussed herein, could adversely affect revenue. As such, our margins, profits and cash flows may be materially reduced due to declines in revenue given our relatively high fixed cost structure. In addition, increases in wages and other labor costs, energy, healthcare, insurance, transportation and fuel, property taxes, minimum lease payments and other expenses included in our fixed cost structure may also reduce our margin, profits and cash flows.. We may not be able to fund resort capital expenditures. We regularly expend capital to construct, maintain and renovate our mountain resorts and properties in order to remain competitive, maintain the value and brand standards of our mountain resorts and properties and comply with applicable laws and regulations. We cannot always predict where capital will need to be expended in a given fiscal year and capital expenditures can increase due to forces beyond our control. We anticipate that resort capital expenditures will be approximately $150 million for calendar year 2018, excluding anticipated investments for U.S. summer related activities and one-time acquisition and integration related capital expenditures. We also expect to invest approximately $21 million in capital expenditures for the integration of Stevens Pass, Okemo, Mount Sunapee, Crested Butte, Stowe and the completion of Whistler Blackcomb integration, as well as approximately $3 million in calendar year 2018 for summer investments. Additionally, we plan to invest $35 million over the next two years related to the acquisitions of Stevens Pass, Okemo, Mount Sunapee and Crested Butte, in addition to an increase in annual ongoing capital expenditures of $7 million to support the addition of these four resorts. Our ability to fund capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and/or to borrow from third parties in the debt or equity markets. We cannot provide assurances that our operations will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to fund such costs, or that we will be able to obtain sufficient financing on adequate terms, or at all. Our ability to generate cash flow and to obtain third-party financing will depend upon many factors, including:. • our future operating performance;. • general economic conditions and economic conditions affecting the resort industry, the ski industry and the capital markets;. • competition; and. • legislative and regulatory matters affecting our operations and business;. 21. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations or to obtain adequate third-party financing could cause us to delay or abandon certain projects and/or plans.. A disruption in our water supply would impact our snowmaking capabilities and operations. Our operations are heavily dependent upon our access to adequate supplies of water for snowmaking and to otherwise conduct our operations. Our mountain resorts are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to water rights. Changes in these laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations. For example, the Forest Service could develop new SUP language that could potentially affect our water rights, and recently the Forest Service finalized a new national water clause for all ski area SUPs. Although the recent change will not require any private water rights to be transferred to the Forest Service, future modified language could have an effect on our water rights. In addition, drought conditions may adversely affect our water supply. A significant change in law or policy or any other interference with our access to adequate supplies of water to support our current operations or an expansion of our operations would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We rely on government permits and landlord approvals. Our resort operations require permits and approvals from certain federal, state, local and foreign authorities, including the Forest Service, the Province of British Columbia, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the States of Vermont and New Hampshire, NPS and the OEH, an agency of the New South Wales government. Virtually all of our ski trails and related activities, including our current and proposed comprehensive summer activities plan, at Vail Mountain, Breckenridge, Keystone, Crested Butte, Stevens Pass, Heavenly, Kirkwood and a majority of Beaver Creek are located on National Forest land. The Forest Service has granted us permits to use these lands, but maintains the right to review and approve many operational matters, as well as the location, design and construction of improvements in these areas. Currently, our permits expire on the following dates:. Forest Service Resort Expiration Date Breckenridge December 31, 2029 Vail Mountain December 1, 2031 Keystone December 31, 2032 Beaver Creek November 8, 2039 Crested Butte September 27, 2058 Stevens Pass August 15, 2058 Heavenly May 1, 2042 Kirkwood March 1, 2052. The Forest Service can terminate or amend these permits if, in its opinion, such termination is required in the public interest. A termination or amendment of any of our permits could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operations. In order to undertake improvements and new development, we must apply for permits and other approvals. These efforts, if unsuccessful, could impact our expansion efforts. Furthermore, Congress may materially increase the fees we pay to the Forest Service for use of these National Forest lands. Additionally, our operations at Whistler Blackcomb are located on Crown Land within the traditional territory of the Squamish and Lil'wat Nations, and the operations and future development of both Whistler Mountain and Blackcomb Mountain are governed by Master Development Agreements, which expire on February 23, 2077. Stowe and Okemo are partially located on land we lease from the State of Vermont, and Mount Sunapee is located on land we lease from the State of New Hampshire. We are required to seek approval from such states for certain developments and improvements made to the resort. Our Northstar and Park City resorts are conducted pursuant to long-term leases with third parties who require us to operate the resorts in accordance with the terms of the leases and seek certain approvals from the respective landlords for improvements made to the resorts. The initial lease term for Northstar with affiliates of EPR Properties expires in January 2027 and allows for three 10-year renewal options. We entered into a transaction agreement, master lease agreement and ancillary transaction documents with affiliate companies of Talisker Corporation (\"Talisker\"), and the initial lease term for our Park City resort with Talisker expires in May 2063 and allows for six 50-year renewal options. We have a lease and a license for Perisher within the Kosciusko National Park which expires in June 2048, with an option to renew for an additional period of 20 years. Perisher relies on a suite of planning approvals (and existing use rights) granted under the Australian EPA Act to operate the resort. Strategic planning documents have been adopted to provide a framework for the assessment and approval of future development at the resort. Perisher also holds a number of environmental approvals to regulate its operations, including an environment protection license and a suite of dangerous goods licenses related to the storage of diesel, heating oil and propane in storage tanks across the resort. Additionally, GTLC and Flagg Ranch operate under concessionaire agreements with the NPS that expire on December 31, 2021 and October 31, 2026, respectively. There is no guarantee that at the end of the initial lease/license or agreements under which we operate our resorts we will renew or, if desired, be able to negotiate new terms that are favorable to us. Additionally, our resorts that operate on privately-. 22. owned land are subject to local land use regulation and oversight by county and/or town government and may not be able to obtain the requisite approvals needed for resort improvements or expansions. Failure to comply with the provisions, obligations and terms (including renewal requirements and deadlines) of our material permits and leases could adversely impact our operating results.. We are subject to extensive environmental and health and safety laws and regulations in the ordinary course of business. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations including those relating to air emissions, discharges to water, storage, treatment and disposal of wastes and other liquids, land use, remediation of contaminated sites, protection of natural resources such as wetlands and sustainable visitor or tourist use and enjoyment. For example, future expansions of certain of our mountain facilities must comply with applicable forest plans approved under the National Forest Management Act, federal, state and foreign wildlife protection laws or local zoning requirements, and in Vermont, our operations must comply with Act 250, which regulates the impacts of development to, among other things, waterways, air, wildlife and earth resources, and any projects must be completed pursuant to a Master Plan. In addition, most projects to improve, upgrade or expand our ski areas are subject to environmental review under the NEPA, FRPA, Act 250, the CEQA, the Australian NPW Act or the Australian EPA Act, as applicable. The NEPA and CEQA require the Forest Service, or other governmental entities, to study any proposal for potential environmental impacts and include various alternatives in its analysis. Our ski area improvement proposals may not be approved or may be approved with modifications that substantially increase the cost or decrease the desirability of implementing the project. Our facilities are subject to risks associated with mold and other indoor building contaminants. From time to time our operations are subject to inspections by environmental regulators or other regulatory agencies. We are also subject to worker health and safety requirements. We believe our operations are in substantial compliance with applicable material environmental, health and safety requirements. However, our efforts to comply do not eliminate the risk that we may be held liable, incur fines or be subject to claims for damages, and that the amount of any liability, fines, damages or remediation costs may be material for, among other things, the presence or release of regulated materials at, on or emanating from properties we now or formerly owned or operated, newly discovered environmental impacts or contamination at or from any of our properties, or changes in environmental laws and regulations or their enforcement.. Changes in security and privacy laws and regulations could increase our operating costs, increase our exposure to fines and litigation, and adversely affect our ability to market our products, properties and services effectively. The information, security, and privacy requirements imposed by applicable laws and governmental regulation and the requirements of the payment card industry are increasingly demanding in the U.S. and other jurisdictions where we operate. Maintaining compliance with applicable security and privacy regulations may increase our operating costs or impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. Additionally, we rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including email marketing, online advertising, and postal mailings. Changes in U.S. or international law affecting marketing, solicitation or privacy, could adversely affect our marketing activities and force changes in our marketing strategy or increase the costs of marketing.. We rely on information technology to operate our businesses and maintain our competitiveness, and any failure to adapt to technological developments or industry trends could harm our business or competitive position. We depend on the use of sophisticated information technology and systems for central reservations, point of sale, marketing, customer relationship management and communication, procurement, maintaining the privacy of guest and employee data, administration and technologies we make available to our guests. We must continuously improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to offer enhanced products, services, features and functionality, while maintaining the reliability and integrity of our systems, network security and infrastructure. Our future success also depends on our ability to adapt our infrastructure to meet rapidly evolving consumer trends and demands and to respond to competitive service and product offerings. In addition, we may not be able to maintain our existing systems or replace or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as we would like or in a cost-effective manner. Delays or difficulties implementing new or enhanced systems may keep us from achieving the desired results in a timely manner, to the extent anticipated, or at all. Any interruptions, outages or delays in our systems, or deterioration in their performance, could impair our ability to process transactions and could decrease the quality of service we offer to our guests. Also, we may be unable to devote adequate financial resources to new technologies and systems in the future. If any of these events occur, our business and financial performance could suffer.. We depend on a seasonal workforce. Our mountain and lodging operations are highly dependent on a large seasonal workforce. We recruit year-round to fill thousands of seasonal staffing needs each season and work to manage seasonal wages and the timing of the hiring process to ensure the appropriate workforce is in place. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to recruit and hire adequate seasonal personnel as the business requires. Immigration law reform could also impact our workforce because we recruit and hire foreign nationals as part of our seasonal workforce. Increased seasonal wages or an inadequate workforce could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. 23. We are subject to risks associated with our workforce, including increased labor costs. We are subject to various federal, state and foreign laws governing matters such as minimum wage requirements, overtime compensation and other working conditions, work authorization requirements, discrimination and family and medical leave. Labor costs and labor-related benefits are primary components in the cost of our operations. Labor shortages, affordable employee housing shortages and increased employee turnover and health care mandates could also increase our labor costs and labor-related benefits. As minimum wage rates increase, including further potential federal and state legislative changes to the minimum wage rate (for example, the recent California legislation increasing minimum wage), we may need to increase not only the wages of our minimum wage employees but also the wages paid to employees at wage rates that are above the minimum wage. Additionally, new regulations governing the payment of overtime for salaried employees may be implemented, and we may incur additional costs to comply with the revised rules. From time to time, we have also experienced non-union employees attempting to unionize. While only a very small portion of our employees are unionized at present, we may experience additional union activity in the future, which could lead to disruptions in our business, increases in our operating costs and/or constraints on our operating flexibility. These potential labor impacts could adversely impact our results of operations.. If we do not retain our key personnel, our business may suffer. The success of our business is heavily dependent on the leadership of key management personnel, including our senior executive officers. If any of these persons were to leave, it could be difficult to replace them, and our business could be harmed. We do not maintain \"key-man\" life insurance on any of our employees.. We are subject to litigation in the ordinary course of business. We are, from time to time, subject to various asserted or unasserted legal proceedings and claims. Any such claims, regardless of merit, could be time consuming and expensive to defend and could divert management's attention and resources. While we believe we have adequate insurance coverage and/or accrue for loss contingencies for all known matters that are probable and can be reasonably estimated, we cannot assure you that the outcome of all current or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on us and our results of operations.. Our business depends on the quality and reputation of our brands, and any deterioration in the quality or reputation of these brands could have an adverse impact on our business. A negative public image or other adverse events could affect the reputation of one or more of our mountain resorts, other destination resorts, hotel properties and other businesses or more generally impact the reputation of our brands. If the reputation or perceived quality of our brands declines, our market share, reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely impacted. Additionally, our intellectual property, including our trademarks, domain names and other proprietary rights, constitutes a significant part of our value. Any misappropriation, infringement or violation of our intellectual property rights could also diminish the value of our brands and their market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business.. There is a risk of accidents occurring at our mountain resorts or competing mountain resorts which may reduce visitation and negatively impact our operations. Our ability to attract and retain guests depends, in part, upon the external perceptions of the Company, the quality and safety of our resorts, services and activities, including summer activities, and our corporate and management integrity. While we maintain and promote an on-mountain safety program, there are inherent risks associated with our resort activities. An accident or an injury at any of our resorts or at resorts operated by competitors, particularly an accident or injury involving the safety of guests and employees that receives media attention, could negatively impact our brand or reputation, cause loss of consumer confidence in us, reduce visitation at our resorts, and negatively impact our results of operations. The considerable expansion in the use of social media over recent years has compounded the impact of negative publicity. If any such incident occurs during a time of high seasonal demand, the effect could disproportionately impact our results of operations.. Our acquisitions, including Okemo, Crested Butte, Stevens Pass, Mount Sunapee or future acquisitions, might not be successful. We have acquired certain mountain resorts, hotel properties and other businesses complementary to our own, as well as developable land in proximity to our resorts. Acquisitions are complex to evaluate, execute and integrate. We cannot ensure that we will be able to accurately evaluate or successfully integrate and manage acquired mountain resorts, properties and businesses and increase our profits from these operations. We continually evaluate potential acquisitions both domestically and internationally and intend to actively pursue acquisition opportunities, some of which could be significant. As a result, we face various risks from acquisitions, including:. • our evaluation of the synergies and/or long-term benefits of an acquired business;. • our inability to integrate acquired businesses into our operations as planned;. • diversion of our management's attention;. • increased expenditures (including legal, accounting and due diligence expenses, higher administrative costs to support the acquired entities, information technology, personnel and other integration expenses);. • potential increased debt leverage;. • potential issuance of dilutive equity securities;. 24. • litigation arising from acquisition activity;. • potential goodwill or other intangible asset impairments; and. • unanticipated problems or liabilities.. In addition, we run the risk that any new acquisitions may fail to perform in accordance with expectations, and that estimates of the costs of improvements and integration for such properties may prove inaccurate.. We have recently acquired companies that were not subject to rules and regulations promulgated under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (\"Sarbanes-Oxley\"), and, therefore, they may lack the internal controls of a U.S. public company, which could ultimately affect our ability to ensure compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. We have recently acquired companies that were not previously subject to the rules and regulations promulgated under Sarbanes-Oxley and accordingly were not required to establish and maintain an internal control infrastructure meeting the standards promulgated under Sarbanes-Oxley. Our assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of July 31, 2018 did not include the internal controls of Okemo, Crested Butte, Stevens Pass and Mount Sunapee, all of which were acquired after our fiscal year ended July 31, 2018.. Although our management will continue to review and evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls in light of these acquisitions, we cannot provide any assurances that there will be no significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the internal control structure of our acquired businesses may cause significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.. Our international operations subject us to additional risks. As a result of the acquisitions of Perisher and Whistler Blackcomb and potential future international acquisitions, we have increased our operations outside of the United States. We are accordingly subject to a number of risks relating to doing business internationally, any of which could significantly harm our business. These risks include:. • restriction on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries, including potentially negative tax consequences;. • currency exchange rates;. • increased exposure to general market and economic conditions outside the United States;. • additional political risk;. • compliance with international laws and regulations (including anti-corruption regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act);. • data security; and. • foreign tax treaties and policies.. Exchange rate fluctuations could result in significant foreign currency gains and losses and affect our business results. We are exposed to currency translation risk because the results of Whistler Blackcomb and Perisher are reported in their local currencies, which we then translate to U.S. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. As a result, changes in foreign exchange rates, in particular between the Canadian dollar, Australian dollar and the U.S. dollar, affect the amounts we record for our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and could have a negative effect on our financial results. We currently do not enter into hedging arrangements to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. We expect that our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will increase as Whistler Blackcomb and Perisher grow and if we acquire other international resorts.. We are subject to accounting and tax regulations and use certain estimates and judgments that may differ significantly from actual results, including adverse determinations by tax authorities. Implementation of existing and future legislation, rulings, standards and interpretations from the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") or other regulatory bodies could affect the presentation of our financial statements and related disclosures. Future regulatory requirements could significantly change our current accounting practices and disclosures. Such changes in the presentation of our financial statements and related disclosures could change an investor's interpretation or perception of our financial position and results of operations.. We use many methods, estimates and judgments in applying our accounting policies (see \"Critical Accounting Policies\" in Item 7 of this Form 10-K). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations.. We are subject to taxes in multiple jurisdictions. Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. Our effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with. 25. differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation.. We are also subject to the examination of tax returns and other tax matters by the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. We regularly assesses the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. If our effective tax rates were to increase or if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected.. The impact of recently enacted tax reform legislation in the U.S. on our business is uncertain. The recent enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") has significantly changed U.S. federal income taxation of U.S. corporations by reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate, limiting interest deductions, permitting immediate expensing of certain capital expenditures, adopting elements of a territorial tax system, imposing a one-time Transition Tax on all undistributed earnings and profits of certain U.S. owned foreign corporations, introducing new anti-base erosion provisions, revising the rules governing net operating losses and the rules governing foreign tax credits, repealing the performance-based compensation exception to the $1 million deduction limit on executive compensation and expanding the scope of employees to whom the limit applies, and eliminating the deductibility of certain fringe benefits, among other changes. Many of these changes are effective immediately, without any transition periods or grandfathering for existing transactions. The Tax Act is unclear in many respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as interpretations and implementation of regulations by the U.S. Treasury Department and IRS, any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities, or how the changes will be viewed by foreign governments.. Our analysis and interpretation of the Tax Act is preliminary and ongoing, and our implementation may include judgments and estimates that differ from the final IRS regulations and could have a material impact on our financial statements. We have identified the change in the corporate tax rate, including its effects on the remeasurement of our net deferred tax liabilities, as well as the Transition Tax, and the related impact on our consolidated financial statements. There may be other material adverse effects resulting from the legislation that we have not yet identified. While some of the changes made by the Tax Act may adversely affect the Company in one or more reporting periods and prospectively, other changes may be beneficial. We continue to work with our tax advisors to determine the full impact that the recent tax legislation as a whole will have on us.. Risks Relating to Our Capital Structure. Our stock price is highly volatile. The market price of our stock is highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control:. • quarterly variations in our operating results;. • operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors;. • change in valuations, including our real estate held for sale;. • changes in the overall travel, gaming, hospitality and leisure industries;. • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors or such guidance provided by us;. • announcements by us or companies in the travel, gaming, hospitality and leisure industries of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments, plans, prospects, service offerings or operating results;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • future sales of our securities;. • trading and volume fluctuations;. • other risk factors as discussed herein; and. • other unforeseen events. Stock markets in the U.S. have often experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions including acts of terrorism, military conflicts, prolonged economic uncertainty, a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, could adversely affect the market price of our stock.. We cannot provide assurance that we will continue to increase dividend payments and/or pay dividends. In fiscal 2011, our Board of Directors approved the commencement of a regular quarterly cash dividend on our common stock at an annual rate of $0.60 per share, subject to quarterly declaration. Since the initial commencement of a regular quarterly cash dividend, our Board of Directors has annually approved an increase to our cash dividend on our common stock. On March 7, 2018, our Board of. 26. Directors approved an increase to our quarterly cash dividend to $1.47 per share, subject to quarterly declaration. This dividend is anticipated to be funded through cash flow from operations, available cash on hand and borrowings under the revolver portion of the Eighth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (\"Vail Holdings Credit Agreement\"). Although we anticipate paying regular quarterly dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future, the declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors, and is limited by applicable state law concepts of available funds for distribution, as well as contractual restrictions. As a result, the amount, if any, of the dividends to be paid in the future will depend upon a number of factors, including our available cash on hand, anticipated cash needs, overall financial condition, restrictions contained in our senior credit facility, the Vail Holdings Credit Agreement, any future contractual restrictions, future prospects for earnings and cash flows, as well as other factors considered relevant by our Board of Directors. In addition, our Board of Directors may also suspend the payment of dividends at any time if it deems such action to be in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. If we do not pay dividends, the price of our common stock must appreciate for investors to realize a gain on their investment in Vail Resorts, Inc. This appreciation may not occur and our stock may in fact depreciate in value.. Anti-takeover provisions affecting us could prevent or delay a change of control that is beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, provisions of our debt instruments and other agreements and provisions of applicable Delaware law and applicable federal and state regulations may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change of control that holders of our securities may consider favorable. These provisions could:. • delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our Company;. • discourage bids for our securities at a premium over the market price;. • adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of our securities; or. • impede the ability of the holders of our securities to change our management.. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. As of July 31, 2018, we had $1,276.1 million of outstanding indebtedness, which includes $334.5 million for the Canyons Lease obligation. This amount also consists of $684.4 million of borrowings from the term loan facility under the Vail Holdings Credit Agreement used to pay the cash portion of the consideration and payment of associated fees and expenses of the Whistler Blackcomb acquisition, $130.0 million borrowings under the revolver portion of the Vail Holdings Credit Agreement, and $65.4 million of borrowings under Whistler Blackcomb's credit facility. In August 2018, we entered into our Eighth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and increased the term loan facility by approximately $265.6 million, of which $70.0 million was borrowed on August 15, 2018 in connection with the closing of the Stevens Pass acquisition with the remainder borrowed on September 27, 2018 in connection with the closing of the Triple Peaks acquisition. Our borrowings under the Vail Holdings Credit Agreement are subject to interest rate changes substantially increasing our risk to changes in interest rates. Borrowings under the Vail Holdings Credit Agreement, including the term loan facility, currently bear interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 1.25% on an annual basis. Interest rate margins may fluctuate based upon the ratio of our Net Funded Debt to Adjusted EBITDA on a trailing four-quarter basis. We also have, on a cumulative basis, minimum lease payment obligations under operating leases of approximately $332.9 million as of July 31, 2018. Our level of indebtedness and minimum lease payment obligations could have important consequences. For example, it could:. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations;. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, including the annual payments under the Canyons lease, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, real estate developments, marketing efforts and other general corporate purposes;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds.. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of our senior credit facility do not fully prohibit us from doing so. If we incur additional debt, the related risks that we face could intensify.. Restrictions imposed by the terms of our indebtedness may prevent or limit our future business plans. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities and strategic initiatives that may be in our long-term best interests. For example, the credit agreements contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things:. • incur additional debt or sell preferred stock;. 27. • pay dividends, repurchase our stock and make other restricted payments;. • create liens;. • make certain types of investments;. • engage in sales of assets and subsidiary stock;. • enter into sales-leaseback transactions;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • issue guarantees of debt;. • transfer all or substantially all of our assets or enter into merger or consolidation transactions; and. • make capital expenditures.. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will meet the financial covenants contained in our credit agreements. If we breach any of these restrictions or covenants, or suffer a material adverse change which restricts our borrowing ability under our senior credit facility, we would not be able to borrow funds thereunder without a waiver. Any inability to borrow could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a breach, if uncured, could cause a default under the senior credit facility and our other debt. Our indebtedness may then become immediately due and payable. We may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments.. We cannot guarantee that we will repurchase our common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program or that our share repurchase program will enhance long-term stockholder value. Share repurchases could also increase the volatility of the price of our common stock and could diminish our cash reserves.  In March 2006, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program, authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 3,000,000 shares of common stock. In July 2008, the Board of Directors increased the authorization by an additional 3,000,000 shares, and in December 2015, the Board increased the authorization by an additional 1,500,000 shares for a total authorization to repurchase shares of up to 7,500,000 shares. Since inception of its share repurchase program through July 31, 2018, the Company has repurchased 5,551,716 shares at a cost of approximately $273.0 million. As of July 31, 2018, 1,948,284 shares remained available to repurchase under the existing share repurchase program which has no expiration date.. Although our Board of Directors has approved a share repurchase program, the share repurchase program does not obligate us to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares. The timing and amount of repurchases, if any, will depend upon several factors, including market and business conditions, the trading price of our common stock and the nature of other investment opportunities. The repurchase program may be limited, suspended or discontinued at any time without prior notice. In addition, repurchases of our common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program could cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. Additionally, our share repurchase program could diminish our cash reserves, which may impact our ability to finance future growth and to pursue possible future strategic opportunities and acquisitions. There can be no assurance that any share repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below levels at which we repurchased shares of stock. Although our share repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, there is no assurance that it will do so and short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program's effectiveness."
