[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section of this report titled \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and our financial statements and related notes. If any of the events described in the following risk factors and the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K occurs, our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed and the trading price of our shares of common stock could decline. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors that are described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Risks Related to Our Business. We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future. These factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern.. Since our inception in 2006, we have incurred significant net losses. Our recurring losses from operations raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, and as a result our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph regarding the same in its report to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern may create negative reactions to the price of our common stock and we may have a more difficult time obtaining financing in the future.. Our net losses were $46.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 and $49.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $473.9 million. As of December 31, 2017, we had $26.0 million in cash and cash equivalents ($0.5 million of which is restricted cash), which we believe will be sufficient to finance our current operations into the second half of 2018. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through sales of our capital stock, debt financings and limited sales of V-Go. In January 2018, we entered into a common stock purchase agreement, or the Purchase Agreement, with Aspire Capital Fund, LLC, or Aspire Capital, which provides that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions and limitations set forth therein, at our discretion, Aspire Capital is committed to purchase up to an aggregate of $20.0 million of shares of our common stock over the 30-month term of the Purchase Agreement. Additionally, in January 2018, we entered into an \"at-the-market\" sales agreement, or the Sales Agreement, with B. Riley FBR, Inc., or FBR, pursuant to which we may sell up a certain amount of shares of our common stock from time to time through FBR, acting as our sales agent, in one or more at-the-market offerings. FBR has the option to decline any sales orders at its discretion. Both the Purchase Agreement and the Sales Agreement are subject to limitations as described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and therefore there are no assurances that we will be able to raise funds from the Purchase Agreement or the Sales Agreement. We have devoted substantially all of our resources to the research, development and engineering of our products, the commercial launch of V-Go, the development of a sales and marketing team and the assembly of a management team to lead our business.. To implement our business strategy we need to, among other things, increase sales of our products with our existing sales and marketing infrastructure, fund ongoing research, development and engineering activities, expand our manufacturing capabilities, and obtain regulatory clearance in other markets outside the United States and European Union or approval to commercialize our products currently under development. We expect our expenses to increase significantly as we pursue these objectives. The extent of our future operating losses and the timing of profitability are highly uncertain, especially given that we only recently commercialized V-Go, which makes predicting our sales more difficult. We will need to affect a financing or capital raise in the near term in order to sustain operations and implement our business strategy until we can achieve profitability from operations, if ever. Our inability to affect a financing or capital raise and continued losses from operations could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Any additional operating losses will have an adverse effect on our stockholders' equity/(deficit), and we cannot assure you that we will ever be able to achieve or sustain profitability.. We currently rely on sales of V-Go to generate all of our revenue, and any factors that negatively impact our sales of V-Go would also negatively impact our financial condition and operating results.. V-Go is our only revenue-producing commercial product, which we introduced into the market in the first quarter of 2012. In the near term, we expect to continue to derive all of our revenue from the sale of V-Go. Accordingly, our ability to generate revenue is highly dependent on our ability to market and sell V-Go.. Sales of V-Go may be negatively impacted by many factors, including:. • problems relating to our manufacturing capabilities, including, but not limited to, the destruction, loss, or temporary shutdown of our manufacturing facility;. 29. • failure to become or remain the preferred basal-bolus insulin therapy among patients with type 2 diabetes;. • failure by patients to use V-Go as directed, which could limit its effectiveness and could have an adverse impact on repeat use;. • inadequate coverage and reimbursement or changes in reimbursement rates or policies relating to V-Go or similar products or technologies by third-party payors;. • our inability to enter into contracts with additional third-party payors on a timely basis and on acceptable terms;. • claims that V-Go, or any component thereof, infringes on patent rights or other intellectual property rights of third parties; and. • adverse regulatory or legal actions relating to V-Go or similar products or technologies.. Because we currently rely on V-Go to generate all of our revenue, any factors that negatively impact our sales of V-Go, or that result in sales of V-Go increasing at a lower rate than expected, would also negatively impact our financial condition and operating results.. Our ability to maintain and grow our revenue depends both on retaining a high percentage of patients using V-Go and on preserving our relationships with a few significant wholesale customers that account for nearly all of our sales.. A key to maintaining and growing our revenue is the retention of a high percentage of patients using V-Go, as a significant and increasing proportion of our business is generated through refill prescriptions. Refill prescriptions account for nearly two-thirds of our total prescriptions and since we do not have reliable data regarding retention rates, and because refill prescriptions generally move in parallel with our patient retention rates, we use these as a proxy to determine patient retention rates. During the year ended December 31, 2017, three wholesale customers accounted for approximately 91% of our total product shipments. If demand for V-Go fluctuates as a result of the introduction of competitive products, negative perceptions with respect to the effectiveness of V-Go, changes in reimbursement policies, manufacturing problems, perceived safety issues with our or our competitors' products, the failure to secure regulatory clearance or approvals or for other reasons, our ability to attract and retain customers and ultimately patients could be harmed. The failure to retain a high percentage of patients using V-Go could negatively impact our revenue growth. Furthermore, the loss of any one of our significant wholesale customers or a sustained decrease in demand by any of these wholesale customers could result in a substantial loss of revenue or patients losing convenient access to V-Go, either of which would hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The failure of V-Go to achieve and maintain market acceptance could result in our achieving sales below our expectations.. Our current business strategy is highly dependent on V-Go achieving and maintaining market acceptance. In order for us to sell V-Go to people with type 2 diabetes who require insulin, we must convince them, their caregivers and healthcare providers that V-Go is an attractive alternative to other insulin delivery devices for the treatment of diabetes, including insulin pens and traditional syringes. Market acceptance and adoption of V-Go depends on educating people with diabetes, as well as their caregivers and healthcare providers, as to the distinct features, ease-of-use, positive lifestyle-impact and other perceived benefits of V-Go as compared to competitive products. If we are not successful in convincing existing and potential customers of the benefits of V-Go, or if we are not able to achieve the support of caregivers and healthcare providers for V-Go, our sales may decline or we may fail to increase our sales in line with our anticipated levels.. Achieving and maintaining market acceptance of V-Go could be negatively impacted by many factors, including:. • the failure of V-Go to achieve wide acceptance among people with type 2 diabetes who require insulin, their caregivers, insulin-prescribing healthcare providers, third-party payors and key opinion leaders in the diabetes treatment community;. • lack of availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement for patients and health care providers;. • lack of evidence supporting the safety, ease-of-use or other perceived benefits of V-Go over competitive products or other currently available insulin treatment methods;. • lack of long-term persistency of patients who do start V-Go, as future sales are heavily dependent on patient refills;. • perceived risks associated with the use of V-Go or similar products or technologies generally;. 30. • the introduction of competitive products and the rate of acceptance of those products as compared to V-Go; and. • any negative results of clinical studies relating to V-Go or similar competitive products.. In addition, V-Go may be perceived by people with type 2 diabetes requiring insulin, their caregivers or healthcare providers to be more complicated, only marginally more effective or even less effective than traditional insulin-delivery methods, and people may be unwilling to change their current treatment regimens. Moreover, we believe that healthcare providers tend to be slow to change their medical treatment practices because of perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of third-party payor reimbursement. Accordingly, healthcare providers may not recommend V-Go until there is sufficient evidence to convince them to alter the treatment methods they typically recommend, such as receiving recommendations from prominent healthcare providers or other key opinion leaders in the diabetes treatment community that our products are effective in providing insulin therapy.. If V-Go does not achieve and maintain widespread market acceptance, we may fail to achieve sales at or above our anticipated levels. If our sales do not meet anticipated levels, we may fail to meet our strategic objectives.. We operate in a very competitive industry, and if we fail to compete successfully against our existing or potential competitors, many of whom have greater resources than we have, our revenue and operating results may be negatively affected.. The diabetes market, and especially the market for patients with type 2 diabetes, is intensely competitive, subject to change and highly sensitive to promotional effort, the number of sales force representatives, the introduction of new products or technologies, or other activities of industry and diabetes-related associations and participants. V-Go competes directly with a number of insulin-delivery devices, primarily insulin pens and syringes, but also indirectly with any other currently marketed or future marketed diabetes therapeutic intervention such as oral anti-diabetic medications, other injectable anti-diabetic medications such as glucagon- like peptide-1, or GLP-1, and analogs. We do not consider programmable insulin pumps or programmable insulin patch pumps to be products that compete directly with V-Go, as those products have been primarily designed and marketed for patients with type 1 diabetes. There are a significant number of very large global pharmaceutical companies that promote and sell anti-diabetic products that are aimed to be used either instead of insulin or to deliver insulin using insulin pens or syringes. Many of our existing and potential competitors are major global companies that are either publicly traded companies or divisions or subsidiaries of publicly traded companies that have significant resources available.. These competitors also enjoy several competitive advantages over us, including:. • greater financial and human resources for sales and marketing, managed care and reimbursement, medical affairs and product development;. • established relationships with healthcare providers and third-party payors;. • established reputation and name recognition among healthcare providers and other key opinion leaders in the diabetes treatment community;. • in some cases, an established base of repeat, long-time customers;. • products supported by a large volume of short-term and long-term clinical data;. • larger and more established distribution networks;. • greater ability to cross-sell products or provide incentives to healthcare providers to use their products; and. • more experience in conducting research, development and engineering activities, manufacturing, clinical trials, and obtaining regulatory approval or clearance.. For these and other reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current or potential future competitors. If this occurs, we may fail to meet our strategic objectives, and our revenue and operating results could be negatively affected.. Competitive products or other technological breakthroughs for the treatment or prevention of diabetes may render our products obsolete or less desirable.. 31. Our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will depend, among other things, on our ability to develop and commercialize products for the treatment of diabetes, in both specialist and primary care settings, which are easy-to- train and easy-to-use, provide clinical benefits as well as equivalent or improved patient adherence and persistency, receive adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors with reasonable out-of-pocket costs to patients, and are more appealing than available alternatives. Our current competition is primarily with other non-electronic insulin delivery devices such as insulin pens and syringes. There are other FDA-cleared basal-bolus insulin delivery products, including one that includes a patch component, but these are electronic. These electronic basal-bolus insulin delivery devices and systems are cleared for use by both type 1 and type 2 patients. In the future, the insulin-delivery methods for patients with type 2 diabetes could change if other non-invasive formulations of insulin are approved and successfully commercialized, such as oral insulin in pill form, inhaled insulin or buccal insulin. If longer-acting and safer GLP-1 analogs with fewer side effects are approved and successfully commercialized, they could reduce or delay the use of basal/bolus insulin in patients with type 2 diabetes. In addition, a number of other companies are pursuing new electronic or mechanical delivery devices, delivery technologies, drugs and other therapies for the treatment and prevention of diabetes that are not currently available on the market. There is another mechanical bolus only insulin delivery device that has been approved by the FDA, ONETOUCH ViaTM  or ONETOUCH. ONETOUCH has not yet been commercially launched in the U.S. and it is uncertain if an when it will be launched. We do not consider ONETOUCH  to be a direct competitor of V-Go, because this product only provides insulin at meal times and does not provide a continuous flow of insulin. Therefore, patients would still be required to take separate basal insulin injection or injections every day. However, if we are incorrect, and ONETOUCH does become a direct competitor of V-Go, it, and other potential technological breakthroughs in diabetes treatment or prevention could reduce the potential market for V-Go or render V-Go obsolete altogether, which would significantly reduce our sales and have an adverse impact on our business.. Because of the size of the type 2 diabetes market, we anticipate that companies will continue to dedicate significant resources to developing competitive products, including both drugs and devices. The frequent introduction of non-insulin drugs, for example, may delay the introduction of insulin to patients and create market confusion for us to capture the prescribers' or payors' attention or reduce our ability to capture sufficient patient share to realize our business objectives. In addition, the entry of multiple new products or the loss of market exclusivity on some diabetes drugs, including insulin delivered in pens, may lead some of our competitors to employ pricing strategies that could adversely affect the pricing of our products. If a competitor develops a product that is similar or is perceived to be superior to V-Go, or if a competitor employs strategies that place downward pressure on pricing within our industry, our sales may decline significantly or may not increase in line with our anticipated levels.. If we are unable to leverage our current sales and marketing infrastructure, we may fail to increase our sales to meet our anticipated levels.. In order to increase our sales and marketing efforts, we increased our field sales force from 37 individuals to 50 during the year ended December 31, 2017. Generally speaking, each sales professional covers one prioritized territory. While we intend to average 50 field-based sales professionals per year, this number is expected to fluctuate based on voluntary and involuntary turnover. Generally speaking, each sales professional covers one prioritized territory. We currently utilize sales professionals along with an inside sales team to focus on select healthcare providers with the most revenue potential. Our profitability will depend on the success of this new sales model.. Because we began commercialization of V-Go in 2012, and because our current sales force is not deployed in every state or major market in the United States, we have less experience marketing and selling our products, as well as training healthcare providers and new customers on the use of V-Go compared to other type 2 diabetes companies. We derive all of our revenue from the sale of V-Go and we expect that this will continue for the next several years. As a result, our financial condition and operating results are and will continue to be highly dependent on the ability of our sales representatives to adequately promote, market and sell V-Go and the ability of our sales force and other training personnel to successfully train healthcare providers and new customers on the use of V-Go. If our sales and marketing representatives or training personnel fail to achieve their objectives, our sales could decrease or may not increase at levels that are in line with our anticipated levels.. A key element of our business strategy is for our sales and marketing infrastructure to drive adoption of our products. The majority of patients using V-Go are trained to use the device by their healthcare provider who has been trained by our sales force using a \"train the trainer\" approach. Our sales force trains physicians, physicians' assistants, nurse practitioners and any other staff in a healthcare provider's office who interact with patients, on how V-Go works and how to train their patients to properly use V-Go. We can expect to face challenges in recruiting and hiring top personnel as we manage our sales and marketing infrastructure and work to retain the individuals who make up those networks due to the very competitive diabetes industry. If a sales and marketing representative were to depart and be retained by one of our competitors, we may fail to prevent them from helping competitors solicit business from our existing customers, which could further adversely affect our sales. In addition, if we are not able to maintain a sufficient network of training and customer care personnel, we may not be able to successfully train healthcare providers to train new patients on the use of V-Go, which could delay new sales and harm our reputation.. 32. As we increase our sales and marketing expenditures with respect to existing or planned products, we will need to further expand the reach of our sales and marketing networks. Our future success will depend largely on our ability to continue to hire, train, retain and motivate skilled sales and marketing representatives with significant industry-specific knowledge in various areas, such as diabetes treatment techniques and technologies, as well as the competitive landscape for our products. Recently hired sales representatives require training and take time to achieve full productivity. If we fail to train recent hires adequately, or if we experience high turnover in our sales force in the future, we cannot be certain that new hires will become as productive as may be necessary to maintain or increase our sales. In addition, the expansion of our sales and marketing personnel will continue to place significant burdens on our management team.. If important assumptions about the potential market for our products are inaccurate, or if we have failed to understand what people with type 2 diabetes are seeking in a treatment, we may not be able to increase our revenue or achieve profitability.. Our business strategy was developed based on a number of important assumptions about the diabetes market in general, and the type 2 diabetes market in particular, any one or more of which may prove to be inaccurate. For example, we believe that the benefits of V-Go as compared to other common insulin delivery devices, such as traditional insulin injection pens, will continue to drive growth in the market for V-Go. In addition, we believe the incidence of diabetes in the United States and worldwide is increasing rapidly. However, each of these trends is uncertain and limited sources exist to obtain reliable market data. The actual incidence of diabetes, and the actual demand for our products or competitive products, could differ materially from our anticipated levels if our assumptions are incorrect. In addition, our strategy of focusing exclusively on patients with type 2 diabetes who require insulin may limit our ability to increase sales or achieve profitability, especially if there are any significant clinical breakthroughs or products or drug introductions that significantly delay or reduce the need for insulin therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes.. Manufacturing risks, including risks related to manufacturing in China, may adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products and could reduce our gross margin and our profitability.. Our business strategy depends on our ability to manufacture our current and future products in sufficient quantities and on a timely basis so as to meet consumer demand, while adhering to product quality standards, complying with regulatory requirements and managing manufacturing costs. We are subject to numerous risks relating to our manufacturing capabilities, including:. • quality or reliability defects in product components that we source from third-party suppliers;. • our inability to secure product components in a timely manner, in sufficient quantities or on commercially reasonable terms;. • our failure to increase production of products to meet demand;. • our inability to modify production lines to enable us to efficiently produce future products or implement changes in current products in response to regulatory requirements;. • difficulty identifying and qualifying alternative suppliers for components in a timely manner; and. • potential damage to or destruction of our manufacturing equipment or manufacturing facility.. In addition, we rely on our contract manufacturer in Southern China to manufacture V-Go. As a result, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business in China, including:. • adverse political and economic conditions, particularly those potentially negatively affecting the trade relationship between the United States and China;. • trade protection measures, such as tariff increases, and import and export licensing and control requirements;. • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws;. • difficulties associated with the Chinese legal system, including increased costs and uncertainties associated with enforcing contractual obligations in China;. • historically lower protection of intellectual property rights;. • unexpected or unfavorable changes in regulatory requirements;. • changes and volatility in currency exchange rates;. 33. • possible patient or physician preferences for more established pharmaceutical products and medical devices manufactured in the United States; and. • difficulties in managing foreign relationships and operations generally.. These risks are likely to be exacerbated by our limited experience with our current products and manufacturing processes. As demand for our products increases, we will have to invest additional resources to purchase components, hire and train employees, and enhance our manufacturing processes. If we fail to increase our production capacity efficiently, our sales may not increase in line with our forecasts and our operating margins could fluctuate or decline. In addition, although we expect some of our product candidates in development to share product features and components with V-Go, manufacturing of these product candidates may require the modification of our production lines, the hiring of specialized employees, the identification of new suppliers for specific components, or the development of new manufacturing technologies. It may not be possible for us to manufacture these product candidates at a cost or in quantities sufficient to make these product candidates commercially viable. Any of these factors may affect our ability to manufacture our products and could reduce our gross margin and profitability.. We depend on a limited number of third-party suppliers for some of the components of V-Go, and the loss of any of these suppliers, or their inability to provide us with an adequate supply of materials, could harm our business.. We rely on a limited number of third-party suppliers to supply components of V-Go. For our business strategy to be successful, our suppliers must be able to provide us with components and finished products in sufficient quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements and quality control standards, in accordance with agreed upon specifications, at acceptable costs and on a timely basis. Increases in our product sales, whether forecasted or unanticipated, could strain the ability of our suppliers to deliver an increasingly large supply of components in a manner that meets these various requirements.. We do not have long-term supply agreements with most of our suppliers and, in many cases, we make our purchases on a purchase order basis. Under most of our supply agreements, we have no obligation to buy any given quantity of products, and our suppliers have no obligation to manufacture for us or sell to us any given quantity of products. As a result, our ability to purchase adequate quantities of the components for our products may be limited. Additionally, our suppliers may encounter problems that limit their ability to manufacture components for us, including financial difficulties or damage to their manufacturing equipment or facilities. If we fail to obtain sufficient quantities of high quality components to meet demand on a timely basis, we could lose customer orders, our reputation may be harmed and our business could suffer.. We generally use a small number of suppliers for our product, some parts and components of which are purchased from single-source vendors. Depending on a limited number of suppliers exposes us to risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality and delivery schedules. Moreover, due to the recent commercialization of our products and the limited amount of our sales to date, we do not have long-standing relationships with our manufacturers and may not be able to convince suppliers to continue to make components available to us unless there is demand for such components from their other customers. If any one or more of our suppliers cease to provide us with sufficient quantities of components in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, we would have to seek alternative sources of supply. Because of factors such as the proprietary nature of our product, our quality control standards and regulatory requirements, we cannot quickly engage additional or replacement suppliers for some of our critical components. Failure of any of our suppliers to deliver products at the level our business requires would limit our ability to meet our sales commitments, which could harm our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may also have difficulty obtaining similar components from other suppliers that meet the requirements of the FDA or other regulatory agencies, and the failure of our suppliers to comply with strictly enforced regulatory requirements could expose us to regulatory action including warning letters, product recalls, termination of distribution, product seizures or civil penalties. It could also require us to cease using the components, seek alternative components or technologies and modify our products to incorporate alternative components or technologies, which could result in a requirement to seek additional regulatory approvals. Any disruption of this nature or increased expenses could harm our commercialization efforts and adversely affect our operating results.. We operate at facilities in three locations, and any disruption at any of these facilities could harm our business.. Our principal offices are located in Bridgewater, New Jersey, and our only manufacturing operations are located at a contract manufacturing facility in Southern China. We also operate a facility in Marlborough, Massachusetts, which we primarily use for research and development. Substantially all of our operations are conducted at these locations, including our manufacturing processes, research, development and engineering activities, customer and technical support and management and administrative functions. In addition, substantially all of our inventory of component supplies and finished goods is held at these locations or held with our distributors.. Vandalism, terrorism or a natural or other disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or flood, at any of these facilities could damage or destroy our manufacturing equipment or our inventory of component supplies or finished goods, cause substantial delays in our operations, result in the loss of key information and cause us to incur additional expenses. Our contract manufacturing facility in. 34. Southern China is our only manufacturing facility, and if damaged or rendered inoperable or inaccessible due to political, social, or economic upheaval or due to natural or other disasters, would make it difficult or impossible for us to manufacture our products for a period of time and may lead to a loss of customers and significant impairment of our financial condition and operating results.. We take precautions to safeguard these facilities, including acquiring insurance, employing back-up generators, adopting health and safety protocols and utilizing off-site storage of computer data. Our insurance may not cover our losses in any particular case. In addition, regardless of the level of insurance coverage, damage to our facilities may harm our business, financial condition and operating results.. If we do not enhance our product offerings through our research, development and engineering efforts, including the successful commercialization of our pre-fill V-Go, we may fail to effectively compete in our market or become profitable.. In order to increase our sales and market share in the type 2 diabetes market, we must enhance and broaden our product offerings, including by commercializing our pre-fill V-Go, in response to the evolving demands of people with type 2 diabetes who require insulin and healthcare providers and competitive pressures from new technologies and market participants. We may not be successful in developing, obtaining regulatory approval for, or marketing our product candidates, including our pre-fill V-Go. In addition, notwithstanding our market research efforts, our future products may not be accepted by consumers, their caregivers, healthcare providers or third-party payors who reimburse consumers for our product. The success of any of our product candidates, including our pre-fill V-Go, will depend on numerous factors, including our ability to:. • identify the product features that people with type 2 diabetes, their caregivers and healthcare providers are seeking in an insulin treatment and successfully incorporate those features into our product;. • develop and introduce our product candidates in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner;. • offer products at a price that is competitive with that of other products on the market;. • adequately protect our intellectual property and avoid infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties;. • demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates;. • secure adequate financing to fund the research, development, engineering and marketing and sales efforts necessary to commercialize new product offerings; and. • obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for our product candidates.. With respect to our pre-fill V-Go in particular, we anticipate that we will need to seek additional sources of capital to complete its development and commercialization, which we cannot assure you we will be able to procure at reasonable terms, if at all. Any delays in our anticipated product launches may significantly impede our ability to successfully compete in our markets. In particular, such delays could cause customers to delay or forego purchases of our product, or to purchase our competitors' products. Even if we are able to successfully develop proposed product candidates when anticipated, these product candidates, including our pre-fill V-Go, may not produce sales in excess of the costs of development, and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing consumer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features.. The safety and efficacy of our products is not supported by long-term clinical data, which could limit sales, and our products could cause unforeseen negative effects.. V-Go, the only product we currently market in the United States, has received pre-market clearance under Section 510(k) of the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA. This process is shorter and typically requires the submission of less supporting documentation than other FDA approval processes and does not always require long-term clinical studies. As a result, we currently lack significant published long-term clinical data supporting the safety and efficacy of our products and the benefits they offer that might have been generated in connection with other approval processes. For these reasons, people with type 2 diabetes who require insulin and their healthcare providers may be slower to adopt or recommend our product, we may not have comparative data that our competitors have or are generating and third-party payors may not be willing to provide coverage or reimbursement for our product. Further, future studies or clinical experience may indicate that treatment with our products is not superior to treatment with competitive products. Such results could slow the adoption of our products and significantly reduce our sales, which could prevent us from achieving our forecasted sales targets or achieving or sustaining profitability. Moreover, if future results and experience indicate that our products cause unexpected or serious complications or other unforeseen negative effects, we could be subject to mandatory product recalls, suspension or withdrawal of FDA clearance or approval, significant legal liability or harm to our business reputation.. 35. Undetected errors or defects in V-Go or our future product candidates could harm our reputation, decrease market acceptance of our products or expose us to product liability claims.. V-Go or our future product candidates may contain undetected errors or defects. Disruptions or other performance problems with V-Go or these other product candidates may damage our customers' businesses and could harm our reputation. If that occurs, we may incur significant costs, the attention of our key personnel could be diverted or other significant customer relations problems may arise. We may also be subject to warranty and liability claims for damages related to errors or defects in V-Go or our future product candidates. A material liability claim or other occurrence that harms our reputation or decreases market acceptance of V-Go or these other product candidates could harm our business and operating results.. The sale and use of V-Go or our other product candidates could lead to the filing of product liability claims if someone were to allege that V-Go or one of our product candidates contained a design or manufacturing defect. A product liability claim could result in substantial damages and be costly and time consuming to defend, either of which could materially harm our business or financial condition. While we currently maintain product liability insurance covering claims up to $5 million per incident, we cannot assure you that such insurance would adequately protect our assets from the financial impact of defending a product liability claim. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing insurance coverage in the future.. We may enter into strategic collaborations, in-licensing arrangements or alliances with third parties that may not result in the development of commercially viable products or the generation of significant future revenue.. In the ordinary course of our business, we may enter into strategic collaborations, in-licensing arrangements or alliances to develop product candidates and to pursue new markets. Proposing, negotiating and implementing strategic collaborations, in-licensing arrangements or alliances may be a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing, sales, technology or other business resources, may compete with us for these opportunities or arrangements. We may not identify, secure, or complete any such transactions or arrangements in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, on acceptable terms or at all. We have limited institutional knowledge and experience with respect to these business development activities, and we may also not realize the anticipated benefits of any such transaction or arrangement. In particular, these collaborations may not result in the development of products that achieve commercial success or result in significant revenue and could be terminated prior to developing any products.. Additionally, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision making authority regarding the transaction or arrangement, which could create the potential risk of creating impasses on decisions, and our collaborators may have economic or business interests or goals that are, or that may become, inconsistent with our business interests or goals. We have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that our current collaborators or any future collaborators devote to our collaborators' or our future products. Disputes between us and our collaborators may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and divert the attention of our management. Further, these transactions and arrangements are contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the applicable agreements and, in such event, we may not continue to have rights to the products relating to such transaction or arrangement or may need to purchase such rights at a premium.. We may seek to grow our business through acquisitions of complementary products or technologies, and the failure to manage acquisitions, or the failure to integrate them with our existing business, could impair our ability to execute our business strategies.. From time to time, we may consider opportunities to acquire other products or technologies that may enhance our product platform or technology, expand the breadth of our markets or customer base, or advance our business strategies. Potential acquisitions involve numerous risks, including:. • problems assimilating the acquired products or technologies;. • issues maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies;. • unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions;. • diversion of management's attention from our existing business;. • risks associated with entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience; and. • increased legal and accounting costs relating to the acquisitions or compliance with regulatory matters.. We have no current commitments with respect to any acquisition. We do not know if we will be able to identify acquisitions we deem suitable, whether we will be able to successfully complete any such acquisitions on favorable terms or at all, or whether we. 36. will be able to successfully integrate any acquired products or technologies. Our inability to integrate any acquired products or technologies effectively could impair our ability to execute our business strategies.. If there are significant disruptions in our information technology systems, our reputation, financial condition and operating results could be harmed.. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage sales and marketing data, accounting and financial functions, inventory management, product development tasks, research, development and engineering data, customer service and technical support functions. Our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, attacks by computer viruses or hackers, power losses, computer system or data network failures, cyber-attacks or cyber-intrusions over the internet, attachments to emails, persons inside our organization, or persons with access to systems inside our organization. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber-attacks or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments, and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased.. The failure of our or our service providers' information technology systems to perform as we anticipate or our failure to effectively implement new information technology systems, could disrupt our operations, which could have a negative impact on our reputation, financial condition and operating results.. If we fail to properly manage our anticipated growth, our business could suffer.. We expect that any potential growth in our business will place a significant strain on our management team and on our financial resources. Failure to manage our growth effectively could cause us to misallocate management or financial resources, and result in losses or weaknesses in our infrastructure. Additionally, our anticipated growth will increase the demands placed on our suppliers, resulting in an increased need for us to manage our suppliers and monitor for quality assurance. Any failure by us to manage our growth effectively could impair our ability to achieve our business objectives.. We depend on the knowledge and skills of our senior management and other key employees, and if we are unable to retain and motivate them or recruit additional qualified personnel, our business may suffer.. We have benefited substantially from the leadership and performance of our senior management, as well as other key employees. Our success will depend on our ability to retain our current management and key employees, and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management and key employees in our industry is intense and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain our personnel or attract new, qualified personnel. The loss of the services of members of our senior management or key employees could prevent or delay the implementation and completion of our strategic objectives, or divert management's attention to seeking qualified replacements. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our senior management or key employees. Each of our executive officers may terminate employment without notice and without cause or good reason. Our executive officers are subject to non-competition agreements. Accordingly, the adverse effect resulting from the loss of our senior management could be compounded by our inability to prevent them from competing with us.. In addition, the sale of V-Go is logistically complex, requiring us to maintain a highly integrated, extensive sales, marketing and training infrastructure consisting of sales and marketing representatives, training personnel and customer care personnel. We face considerable challenges in recruiting, training, managing, motivating and retaining the members of these teams, including managing geographically dispersed efforts. These challenges are exacerbated by the fact that our strategic plan requires us to rapidly grow our sales, with limited marketing and training infrastructure growth, while generating increased demand for our product. If we fail to maintain and grow a dedicated team of sales representatives and are unable to retain our sales and marketing, managed care, medical and other personnel, we could fail to take advantage of an opportunity to enhance our brand recognition and grow our revenue.. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Capital Requirements. Our future capital needs are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future, and these funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all.. At December 31, 2017, we had $26.0 million in cash and cash equivalents, of which $0.5 million is restricted cash. We do not believe that our cash on hand will be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements through the next 12 months from the financial statement issuance date. The continued growth of our business, including the expansion of our research, development and engineering activities, and our efforts to commercialize our pre-fill V-Go will continue to significantly increase our expenses. In addition, the amount of our future product sales is difficult to predict and actual sales may not be in line with our forecasts. As a. 37. result, we will need to raise additional capital in addition to the amounts we could receive under the Purchase Agreement and the Sales Agreement, which may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including:. • the revenue generated by sales of V-Go and any other future product candidates that we may develop and commercialize;. • the costs associated with expanding our sales and marketing infrastructure;. • the expenses we incur in maintaining our manufacturing facility and adding further manufacturing equipment and capacity;. • the cost associated with developing and commercializing our proposed products or technologies, including our pre-fill V-Go;. • the cost of obtaining and maintaining regulatory clearance or approval for our current or future products;. • the cost of ongoing compliance and regulatory requirements;. • expenses we incur in connection with potential litigation or governmental investigations;. • anticipated or unanticipated capital expenditures; and. • unanticipated general and administrative expenses.. If we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaborations, licensing, joint ventures, strategic alliances, partnership arrangements or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our potential future products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us.. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may not be able to expand our sales and marketing infrastructure, enhance our current products or develop new products, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures, changes in supplier relationships, or unanticipated changes in customer demand. Any of these events could adversely affect our ability to achieve our strategic objectives and impact our ability to continue as a going concern.. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter.. We began commercial sales of V-Go in the first quarter of 2012. Due to our limited operating history, there has been and there may continue to be meaningful variability in our operating results among quarters, as well as within each quarter. Our operating results, and the variability of these operating results, will be affected by numerous factors, including:. • our ability to increase sales of V-Go and to commercialize and sell our future products, if any, and the number of our products sold in each quarter;. • acceptance of our products by people with type 2 diabetes who require insulin, their caregivers, healthcare providers and third-party payors;. • the pricing of our products and competitive products, the effect of third-party coverage and reimbursement policies, and the amount and level of sales discounts or rebates required to obtain or retain effective third-party payor coverage and reimbursement;. • our ability to establish and grow an effective sales and marketing infrastructure;. • the amount of, and the timing of the payment for, insurance deductibles required to be paid by patients and potential patients under their existing insurance plans;. • interruption in the manufacturing or distribution of our product;. • seasonality and other factors affecting the timing of purchases of our product;. • timing of new product offerings, acquisitions, licenses or other significant events by us or our competitors;. 38. • the ability of our suppliers to timely provide us with an adequate supply of components that meet our requirements;. • regulatory clearance or approvals affecting our products or those of our competitors;. • changes in healthcare rules, coverage and reimbursement under government healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid; and. • the timing of revenue recognition associated with our product sales pursuant to applicable accounting standards.. As a result of our limited operating history, and due to the complexities of the industry in which we operate, it will be difficult for us to forecast demand for our current or future products with any degree of certainty, which means it will be difficult for us to forecast our sales as well as production or inventory requirements. In addition, we will be significantly increasing our operating expenses as we expand our business. Accordingly, we may experience substantial variability in our operating results from quarter to quarter, including unanticipated quarterly losses. If our quarterly or annual operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly or annual fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our credit facility with Capital Royalty Group. If we fail to comply with the obligations under our credit facility, the lender may be able to accelerate amounts owed under the facility and may foreclose upon the assets securing our obligations.. As of December 31, 2017, the aggregate principal amount of our term loan with Capital Royalty Group, or CRG, and certain of its affiliates, or our Term Loan, was $27.5 million. Borrowings under our credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, including our material intellectual property. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on numerous factors, including the amount of our cash reserves and our actual and projected financial and operating performance. These amounts and our performance are subject to numerous risks, including the risks in this section, some of which may be beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash reserves or cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our existing or future indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions, or that these actions would permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In addition, in the event of our breach of the Term Loan, we may be required to repay any outstanding amounts earlier than anticipated. If we fail to comply with our obligations under the Term Loan, the lender would be able to accelerate the required repayment of amounts due and, if they are not repaid, could foreclose upon our assets securing our obligations under the Term Loan. In addition, certain events of default have already occurred under the term loan with CRG in 2015 and we cannot assure you similar future events of default will not occur under the Term Loan. For more information on the Term Loan, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Indebtedness - Senior Secured Debt\".. Our Term Loan contains a financial covenant that may limit our operating flexibility.. Our Term Loan contains a restrictive covenant that requires us to maintain an end-of-day balance of $5.0 million in cash or cash equivalents, which may limit our ability to engage in new lines of business, make certain investments, pay dividends, or enter into various transactions. We therefore may not be able to engage in any of the foregoing transactions unless we obtain the consent of the lender or terminate our Term Loan. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that future working capital, borrowings or equity financing will be available to repay or refinance the amounts outstanding under the agreement. For additional information about the Term Loan, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Indebtedness - Senior Secured Debt.\". Prolonged negative economic conditions could adversely affect us, our customers and suppliers, which could harm our financial condition.. We are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in general economic and market conditions. Economic turmoil and uncertainty about future economic conditions could adversely impact our existing and potential customers, the financial ability of health insurers to pay claims, patients' ability or willingness to pay out-of- pocket costs, our ability to obtain financing for our operations on favorable terms, or at all, and our relationships with key suppliers.. 39. The use of our net operating loss carryforwards and research tax credits may be limited.. Our net operating loss carryforwards and any future research and development tax credits may expire and not be used. As of December 31, 2017, we had U.S. net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $380.3 million. Our net operating loss carryforwards arising in taxable years ending on or prior to December 31, 2017 will begin expiring in 2028 if we have not used them prior to that time. Net operating loss carryforwards arising in taxable years ending after December 31, 2017 are no longer subject to expiration under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. Additionally, our ability to use any net operating loss and credit carryforwards to offset taxable income or tax, respectively, in the future will be limited under Sections 382 and 383 of the Code, respectively, if we have a cumulative change in ownership of more than 50% within a three-year period. The completion of our March 2017 public offering, together with private placements and other transactions that have occurred, may trigger, or may have already triggered, such an ownership change. In addition, since we will need to raise substantial additional funding to finance our operations, we may undergo further ownership changes in the future. We have never completed an analysis as to whether such a change of ownership has occurred, but in such an event, we will be limited regarding the amount of net operating loss carryforwards and research tax credits that could be utilized annually in the future to offset taxable income or tax, respectively. Any such annual limitation may significantly reduce the utilization of the net operating loss carryforwards and research tax credits before they expire. In addition, certain states have suspended use of net operating loss carryforwards for certain taxable years, and other states are considering similar measures. As a result, we may incur higher state income tax expense in the future. Depending on our future tax position, continued suspension of our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards in states in which we are subject to income tax could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Related to Intellectual Property. Intellectual property rights may not provide adequate protection, which may permit third parties to compete against us more effectively.. Our success depends significantly on our ability to maintain and protect our proprietary rights in the technologies and inventions used in or embodied by our product. To protect our proprietary technology, we rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, as well as nondisclosure, confidentiality, and other contractual restrictions in our manufacturing, consulting, employment and other third party agreements. These legal means afford only limited protection, however, and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage.. If we are unable to secure sufficient patent protection for our proprietary rights in our products and processes, and to adequately maintain and protect our existing and new rights, competitors will be able to compete against us more effectively, and our business will suffer.. The process of applying for patent protection itself is time consuming and expensive and we cannot assure you that we have prepared or will be able to prepare, file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. It is also possible that we will fail to identify patentable aspects of inventions made in the course of development and commercialization activities before it is too late to obtain patent protection on them. In addition, our patents and applications may not be prosecuted and enforced in a manner consistent with the best interests of our business. It is possible that defects of form in the preparation or filing of our patents or patent applications may exist, or may arise in the future, for example, with respect to proper priority claims, inventorship, claim scope or patent term adjustments. Moreover, we cannot assure you that all of our pending patent applications will issue as patents or that, if issued, they will issue in a form that will be advantageous to us. We own numerous issued patents and pending patent applications that relate to insulin- delivery methods and devices. The rights granted to us under our patents, however, including prospective rights sought in our pending patent applications, may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful exclusivity or commercial advantage, and competitors may be able to design around our patents or develop products that provide outcomes comparable to ours without infringing on our intellectual property rights. In addition, we may in the future be subject to claims by our former employees or consultants asserting an ownership right in our patents or patent applications, as a result of the work they performed on our behalf. If any of our patents are challenged, invalidated or legally circumvented by third parties, and if we do not exclusively own other enforceable patents protecting our product, competitors could market products and use processes that are substantially similar to, or superior to, ours, and our business will suffer.. The patent position of medical technology companies is generally highly uncertain. The degree of patent protection we require may be unavailable or severely limited in some cases and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us sufficient exclusivity, or to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example:. • we might not have been the first to invent or the first inventor to file patent applications on the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents;. 40. • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies;. • other companies hold patents stating broad claims in the drug delivery device field which, if construed to cover our products and held to be valid and enforceable, could have a material adverse effect on our business;. • any patents we obtain or license from others in the future may not encompass commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties;. • any patents we obtain or license from others in the future may not be valid or enforceable; and. • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable.. Patents have a limited lifespan. In the United States, the natural expiration of a utility patent typically is 20 years after it is filed. Various extensions may be available; however, the life of a patent, and the protection it affords, is limited. Without patent protection for our insulin-delivery methods and devices, we may be open to competition from generic versions of such methods and devices.. Changes in patent law could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our products and our technologies.. Patent reform legislation may increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents. On September 16, 2011, the Leahy- Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law. These include provisions that affect the way patent applications are prosecuted, redefine prior art, may affect patent litigation, and switch the U.S. patent system from a \"first-to- invent\" system to a \"first-to-file\" system. Under a \"first-to-file\" system, assuming the other requirements for patentability are met, the first inventor to file a patent application generally will be entitled to the patent on an invention regardless of whether another inventor had made the invention earlier. The Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents.. In addition, patent reform legislation may pass in the future that could lead to additional uncertainties and increased costs surrounding the prosecution, enforcement, and defense of our patents and applications.. Furthermore, the U.S. Supreme Court and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit have made, and will likely continue to make, changes in how the patent laws of the United States are interpreted. Similarly, foreign courts have made, and will likely continue to make, changes in how the patent laws in their respective jurisdictions are interpreted. We cannot predict future changes in the interpretation of patent laws or changes to patent laws that might be enacted into law by United States and foreign legislative bodies. Those changes may materially affect our patents or patent applications and our ability to obtain and enforce or defend additional patent protection in the future.. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. Moreover, the USPTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process. In addition, periodic maintenance fees on issued patents often must be paid to the USPTO and foreign patent agencies over the lifetime of the patent. While an unintentional lapse can in many cases be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules, there are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. Non-compliance events that could result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application include, but are not limited to, failure to respond to official actions within prescribed time limits, non-payment of fees and failure to properly legalize and submit formal documents. If we fail to maintain the patents and patent applications covering our products or procedures, we may not be able to stop a competitor from marketing products that are the same as or similar to our products and technologies.. 41. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world.. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on our products and technologies in all countries throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive. The requirements for patentability may differ in certain countries, particularly developing countries, and the breadth of patent claims allowed can be inconsistent. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States. Consequently, we may not be able to prevent third parties from practicing our inventions in all countries outside the United States. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products and, further, may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we have patent protection, but enforcement on infringing activities is inadequate.. We do not have patent rights in certain foreign countries in which a market may exist in the future. Moreover, in foreign jurisdictions where we do have patent rights, proceedings to enforce such rights could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly, and our patent applications at risk of not issuing, and could provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially meaningful. Thus, we may not be able to stop a competitor from marketing and selling in foreign countries products that are the same as or similar to our product.. We may in the future become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our intellectual property, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful.. The medical device industry has been characterized by frequent and extensive intellectual property litigation. Our competitors or other patent holders may assert that our products and the methods employed in our products are covered by their patents. For example, other companies hold patents stating broad claims in the drug delivery device field which, if construed to cover our products and held to be valid and enforceable, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we believe we have adequate defenses available if faced with any allegations that we infringe third-party patents, it is possible that V-Go could be found to infringe these patents. If our product or methods are found to infringe, we could be prevented from manufacturing or marketing our products.. We do not know whether our competitors or potential competitors have patents, or have applied for, will apply for, or will obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, have made, use, sell, import or export our products. Competitors may infringe our patents or misappropriate or otherwise violate our intellectual property rights. To stop any such infringement or unauthorized use, litigation may be necessary. Our intellectual property has not been tested in litigation. A court may declare our patents invalid or unenforceable, may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question, or may interpret the claims of our patents narrowly, thereby substantially narrowing the scope of patent protection they afford.. In addition, third parties may initiate legal proceedings against us to challenge the validity or scope of our intellectual property rights, or may allege an ownership right in our patents, as a result of their past employment or consultancy with us. Many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to defend their intellectual property rights than we can. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property.. Competing products may also be sold in other countries in which our patent coverage might not exist or be as strong. If we lose a foreign patent lawsuit, alleging our infringement of a competitor's patents, we could be prevented from marketing our products in one or more foreign countries.. Litigation related to infringement and other intellectual property claims such as trade secrets, with or without merit, is unpredictable, can be expensive and time-consuming, and can divert management's attention from our core business. If we lose this kind of litigation, a court could require us to pay substantial damages, treble damages, and attorneys' fees, and could prohibit us from using technologies essential to our product, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If relevant patents are upheld as valid and enforceable and we are found to infringe, we could be prevented from selling our products unless we can obtain licenses to use technology or ideas covered by such patents. We do not know whether any necessary licenses would be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. If we cannot obtain these licenses, we could be forced to design around those patents at additional cost or abandon the products altogether. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. There could also be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could cause the price of our common stock to decline.. 42. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of our competitors or are in breach of non-competition or non-solicitation agreements with our competitors.. We could in the future be subject to claims that we or our employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of former employers, competitors, or other third parties. Although we endeavor to ensure that our employees and consultants do not use the intellectual property, proprietary information, know-how or trade secrets of others in their work for us, we may in the future be subject to claims that we caused an employee to breach the terms of his or her non-competition or non-solicitation agreement, or that we or these individuals have, inadvertently or otherwise, used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of a former employer or competitor. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and could be a distraction to management. If our defense to those claims fails, in addition to paying monetary damages, a court could prohibit us from using technologies or features that are essential to our product, if such technologies or features are found to incorporate or be derived from the trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers or other third parties. An inability to incorporate technologies or features that are important or essential to our products may prevent us from selling our product. In addition, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Moreover, any such litigation or the threat thereof may adversely affect our ability to hire employees or contract with independent sales representatives. A loss of key personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize our product.. Our trademarks may be infringed or successfully challenged, resulting in harm to our business.. We rely on our trademarks as one means to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors, and we have registered or applied to register many of these trademarks. The USPTO or foreign trademark offices may deny our trademark applications, however, and even if published or registered, these trademarks may be ineffective in protecting our brand and goodwill and may be successfully opposed or challenged. Third parties may oppose our trademark applications, or otherwise challenge our use of our trademarks. In addition, third parties may use marks that are confusingly similar to our own, which could result in confusion among our customers, thereby weakening the strength of our brand or allowing such third parties to capitalize on our goodwill. In such an event, or if our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our product, which could result in loss of brand recognition and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands. Our competitors may infringe our trademarks and we may not have adequate resources to enforce our trademark rights in the face of any such infringement.. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality or use of our trade secrets, our competitive position may be harmed.. In addition to patent and trademark protection, we also rely on trade secrets, including unpatented know-how, technology and other proprietary information, to maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect our trade secrets, in part, by entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to them, such as our manufacturers, consultants and vendors, and our former or current employees. We also enter into invention or assignment agreements with our employees. Despite these efforts, any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our trade secrets and other unpatented or unregistered proprietary information. Monitoring unauthorized uses and disclosures of our intellectual property is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be effective. In addition, we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for any such breaches. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts inside and outside the United States are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets.. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. Competitors could purchase our products and attempt to replicate some or all of the competitive advantages we derive from our development efforts, willfully infringe our intellectual property rights, design around our protected technology or develop their own competitive technologies that fall outside of our intellectual property rights. If any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor, we would have no right to prevent them, or those to whom they communicate it, from using that technology or information to compete with us. If our intellectual property is not adequately protected so as to protect our market against competitors' products and methods, our competitive position could be adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Legal and Regulatory Environment. Our products and operations are subject to extensive governmental regulation, and failure to comply with applicable requirements could cause our business to suffer.. The medical technology industry is regulated extensively by governmental authorities, principally the FDA and corresponding state regulatory agencies. The regulations are very complex, have become more stringent over time, and are subject to rapid change and varying interpretations. Regulatory restrictions or changes could limit our ability to carry on or expand our operations or result. 43. in higher than anticipated costs or lower than anticipated sales. The FDA and other U.S. governmental agencies regulate numerous elements of our business, including:. • product design and development;. • pre-clinical and clinical testing and trials;. • product safety;. • establishment registration and product listing;. • labeling and storage;. • marketing, manufacturing, sales and distribution;. • pre-market clearance or approval;. • servicing and post-marketing surveillance, including reporting of deaths or serious injuries and malfunctions that, if they recurred, could lead to death or serious injury;. • advertising and promotion;. • post-market approval studies;. • product import and export; and. • recalls and field-safety corrective actions.. Before we can market or sell a new regulated product or a significant modification to an existing product in the United States, we must obtain either clearance under Section 510(k) of the FDCA, grant of a de novo classification request, or approval of a pre-market approval, or PMA, application from the FDA, unless an exemption from pre-market review applies. In the 510(k) clearance process, the FDA must determine that a proposed device is \"substantially equivalent\" to a device legally on the market, known as a \"predicate\" device, with respect to intended use, technology and safety and effectiveness, in order to clear the proposed device for marketing. Clinical data is sometimes required to support substantial equivalence. In the de novo request process, the FDA must determine that general and special controls are sufficient to provide reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of a device, which is low to moderate risk and has no predicate. The PMA pathway requires an applicant to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device based on extensive data, including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trial, manufacturing and labeling data. The PMA process is typically required for devices that are deemed to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices. Products that are approved through a PMA application generally need FDA approval before they can be modified. Similarly, some modifications made to products cleared through a 510(k) may require a new 510(k). The 510(k) de novo and PMA processes can be expensive and lengthy and require the payment of significant fees, unless an exemption applies. The FDA's 510(k) clearance process usually takes from 3 to 12 months, but may take longer. The FDA's goal is to review a de novo classification request within 150 days, but the process generally takes longer, up to a year or more. The process of obtaining a PMA is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process and generally takes from one to three years, or longer, from the time the application is submitted to the FDA until an approval is obtained. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time-consuming, and we may not be able to obtain these clearances or approvals on a timely basis, or at all for our proposed products.. We obtained initial pre-market clearance for V-Go under Section 510(k) of the FDCA in December 2010. If the FDA requires us to go through a lengthier, more rigorous examination for future products or modifications to our existing product than we had expected, our product introductions or modifications could be delayed or canceled, which could cause our sales to decline or to not increase in line with our forecasts. In addition, the FDA may determine that future products will require the more costly, lengthy and uncertain PMA process. Although we do not currently market any devices under PMA, the FDA may demand that we obtain a PMA prior to marketing certain of our future products. Further, even with respect to those future products where a PMA is not required, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the 510(k) clearances with respect to those products.. The FDA can delay, limit or deny clearance or approval of a device for many reasons, including:. • we may not be able to demonstrate that our products are safe and effective for their intended users;. • the data from our clinical trials may be insufficient to support clearance or approval; and. • the manufacturing process or facilities we use may not meet applicable requirements.. 44. In addition, the FDA may change its clearance and approval policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, or take other actions which may prevent or delay approval or clearance of our products under development or impact our ability to modify our currently cleared products on a timely basis. Any delay in, or failure to obtain or maintain, clearance or approval for our products under development could prevent us from generating revenue from these products and adversely affect our business operations and financial results. Additionally, the FDA and other regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers.. Regulatory enforcement or inquiries, or other increased scrutiny on us, could dissuade some customers from using our products and adversely affect our reputation and the perceived safety and efficacy of our product.. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could jeopardize our ability to sell our products and result in enforcement actions such as fines, civil penalties, injunctions, warning letters, recalls of products, delays in the introduction of products into the market, refusal of the FDA or other regulators to grant future clearances or approvals, and the suspension or withdrawal of existing clearances or approvals by the FDA or other regulators. Any of these sanctions could result in higher than anticipated costs or lower than anticipated sales and negatively impact our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results.. Furthermore, we may evaluate international expansion opportunities in the future. If we expand our operations outside of the United States, we will become subject to various additional regulatory and legal requirements under the applicable laws and regulations of the international markets we enter. These additional regulatory requirements may involve significant costs and expenditures and, if we are not able to comply with any such requirements, our international expansion and business could be significantly harmed.. Modifications to our products may require new 510(k) clearances or pre-market approvals, or may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until clearances are obtained.. Any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, design, or manufacture, requires a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, a de novo or PMA. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA may review any manufacturer's decision. The FDA may not agree with our decisions regarding whether new clearances or approvals are necessary. We have made modifications to our 510(k) cleared product, and have determined based on our review of the applicable FDA guidance that in certain instances new 510(k) clearances, de novo or pre-market approvals are not required. If the FDA disagrees with our determination and requires us to submit new 510(k) notifications, de novos or PMAs for modifications to our previously cleared or approved products for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties.. If we or our third-party suppliers fail to comply with the FDA's good manufacturing practice regulations, this could impair our ability to market our products in a cost-effective and timely manner.. We and our third-party suppliers are required to comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our product. The FDA audits compliance with the QSR through periodic announced and unannounced inspections of manufacturing and other facilities. The FDA may impose inspections or audits at any time. If we or our suppliers have significant non-compliance issues or if any corrective action plan that we or our suppliers propose in response to observed deficiencies is not sufficient, the FDA could take enforcement action against us, including any of the following sanctions:. • untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties;. • customer notifications or repair, replacement, refunds, recall, detention or seizure of our product;. • operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production;. • refusing or delaying our requests for 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval of new products or modified products;. • withdrawing 510(k) clearances or pre-market approvals that have already been granted;. • refusal to grant export approval for our product; or. • criminal prosecution.. Any of the foregoing actions could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results.. 45. A recall of our product, or the discovery of serious safety issues with our product, could have a significant adverse impact on us.. The FDA has the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health.. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of an unacceptable risk to health, component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. Recalls of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and operating results, which could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner.. Further, under the FDA's medical device reporting, or MDR, regulations, we are required to report to the FDA any incident in which our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or in which our products malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury. Repeated product malfunctions may result in a voluntary or involuntary product recall, which could divert managerial and financial resources, impair our ability to manufacture our products in a cost-effective and timely manner and have an adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and operating results.. Depending on the corrective action we take to redress a product's deficiencies or defects, the FDA may require, or we may decide, that we will need to obtain new approvals or clearances for the device before we may market or distribute the corrected device. Seeking such approvals or clearances may delay our ability to replace the recalled devices in a timely manner. Moreover, if we do not adequately address problems associated with our devices, we may face additional regulatory enforcement action, including FDA warning letters, product seizure, injunctions, administrative penalties, or civil or criminal fines. We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our sales as well as face significant adverse publicity or regulatory consequences, which could harm our business, including our ability to market our products in the future.. Any adverse event involving our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or regulatory agency action, which could include inspection, mandatory recall or other enforcement action. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business and may harm our reputation and financial results.. If we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate levels of coverage and reimbursement for V-Go or any future products we may seek to commercialize, their commercial success may be severely hindered.. We have derived all of our revenue from the sale of V-Go in the United States and expect to continue to do so for the next several years. Patients who use V-Go generally rely on third-party payors, including governmental healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and commercial health insurers, health maintenance organizations and other healthcare-related organizations, to reimburse all or part of the costs associated with V- Go. Successful sales of V-Go and any future products depend, therefore, on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors.. Securing coverage for new technologies is challenging and uncertain. Third-party payors render coverage decisions based upon clinical and economic standards that disfavor new products when more established or lower cost therapeutic alternatives are already available or subsequently become available. Unless our products demonstrate superior efficacy profiles, it may not qualify for coverage and reimbursement. Even if we obtain coverage for a given product, the resulting reimbursement payment rates might not be adequate or may require co-payments, deductibles or co-insurance payments that patients find unacceptably high.. Not only are third-party payors, whether governmental or commercial, developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs, in addition, no uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for medical products, including V-Go, exists among third-party payors. Therefore, coverage and reimbursement for our products can and do differ significantly from payor to payor. As a result, the coverage determination process is often a time-consuming and costly process that requires us to provide economic, scientific and clinical support for the use of our products to each payor separately, with no assurance that coverage and adequate reimbursement will be obtained. Even where favorable coverage and reimbursement status has been attained for V-Go, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future. Moreover, a third-party payor's decision to provide coverage does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be paid. There can be no assurance that our clinical data will allow for satisfactory pricing of V-Go at current levels, and the failure to obtain and maintain coverage and adequate reimbursement for V-Go would materially and adversely affect our business.. V-Go currently is covered and reimbursed under the policies of a number of third-party payors. The Medicare program recognizes V-Go under the Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit, and a number of Part D drug plans have placed our products on their pharmacy formularies or otherwise allow for individual consideration. Although V-Go is not covered under Medicare Part B, an. 46. outpatient medical benefit that does not recognize disposable insulin delivery devices, other third-party payors may have adopted different coverage policies, classifying a disposable insulin delivery device as a coverable device. Some commercial payors, however, have declined to offer any coverage for V-Go, whether on a pharmacy formulary or as a medical benefit, concluding that the delivery system is experimental or investigational, or that the current evidence is insufficient. In addition, coverage policies developed by third-party payors generally can be modified or terminated by the third-party payor without cause and with little or no notice to us.. We believe that future coverage and reimbursement will likely be subject to increased restrictions both in the United States and in international markets. Healthcare cost containment initiatives that limit or deny reimbursement for V-Go would also materially and adversely affect our business. If reimbursement is not available or is available only to limited levels, we may not be able to commercialize our products profitably.. We are subject to additional federal, state and foreign laws and regulations relating to our healthcare business; our failure to comply with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Although we do not provide healthcare services, submit claims for third-party reimbursement, or receive payments directly from Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors for our product, we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by federal and state governments, which could significantly impact our business. Healthcare fraud and abuse laws potentially applicable to our operations include:. • the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which applies to our marketing practices, educational programs, pricing policies and relationships with healthcare providers, by prohibiting, among other things, soliciting, receiving, offering or providing remuneration intended to induce or reward the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal healthcare program, such as the Medicare or Medicaid programs;. • federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, including civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, that prohibit, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment or approval to the federal government that are false or fraudulent, knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement material to an obligation to pay or transmit money or property to the federal government or knowingly concealing or knowingly and improperly avoiding or decreasing an obligation to pay or transmit money or property to the federal government;. • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and its implementing regulations, which created federal criminal laws that prohibit, among other things, executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters;. • federal \"sunshine\" requirements imposed by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or collectively the ACA, on device manufacturers regarding any \"transfer of value\" made or distributed to physicians and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members. Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (or up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for \"knowing failures\"), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests that are not timely, accurately, and completely reported in an annual submission due by the 90th day of each subsequent calendar year;. • federal consumer protection and unfair competition laws, which broadly regulate marketplace activities and activities that potentially harm consumers; and. • state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers; state laws that require device and pharmaceutical companies to comply with the industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers; and state laws that require drug and device manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians, other healthcare providers and healthcare entities or marketing expenditures.. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws and regulations is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Moreover, recent health care reform legislation has strengthened these laws. For example, the ACA, among other things, amended the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes, such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of these statutes or specific intent to violate them. In addition, the ACA provided that the government may. 47. assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. We are unable to predict what additional federal or state legislation or regulatory initiatives may be enacted in the future regarding our business or the healthcare industry in general, or what effect such legislation or regulations may have on us. Federal or state governments may impose additional restrictions or adopt interpretations of existing laws that could have a material adverse effect on us.. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the statutory exceptions and safe harbors available under such laws, it is possible that some of our business activities, including without limitation certain of the marketing and distribution programs for V-Go, as well as our relationships with physicians and other health care providers, some of whom recommend, purchase and/or prescribe our product, could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from governmental health care programs, individual imprisonment, disgorgement, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings, suspension or revocation of certifications or licenses that are required to operate our business, injunctions and other associated remedies, denial or withdrawal of product clearances, private \"qui tam\" actions brought by individual whistleblowers in the name of the government, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could impair our ability to operate our business and our financial results.. We may be liable if the FDA or other U.S. enforcement agencies determine we have engaged in the off-label promotion of our products or have disseminated false or misleading labeling or promotional materials.. Our promotional materials and training methods must comply with FDA and other applicable laws and regulations, including laws and regulations prohibiting marketing claims that promote the off-label use of our products or that make false or misleading statements. Healthcare providers may use our products off-label, as the FDA does not restrict or regulate a physician's choice of treatment within the practice of medicine. For example, although V-Go is only cleared for insulin delivery in adult patients, a physician might independently choose to use it for insulin delivery in children. FDA also could conclude that a performance claim is misleading if it determines that there are inadequate non-clinical and/or clinical data supporting the claim. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training promote of an off-label use or make false or misleading claims, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they determine that our promotional or training materials promote an unapproved use or make false or misleading claims, which could result in significant fines or penalties. Although our policy is to refrain from statements that could be considered off-label promotion of our products or false or misleading, the FDA or another regulatory agency could disagree. Violations of the FDCA may also lead to investigations alleging violations of federal and state health care fraud and abuse laws, as well as state consumer protection laws, which may lead to costly penalties and may adversely impact our business. In addition, the off-label use of our products may increase the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims are expensive to defend and could result in substantial damage awards against us and harm our reputation.. Legislative or regulatory healthcare reforms may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain reimbursement for our products or regulatory clearance or approval of our future products, and to produce, market and distribute those products after clearance or approval is obtained.. Recent political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to fundamental changes. Both the federal and state governments in the United States and foreign governments continue to propose and pass new legislation and regulations designed to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare. Such legislation and regulations may result in decreased reimbursement for our product, which may further exacerbate industry-wide pressure to reduce the prices charged for our product. This could harm our ability to market our products and generate sales. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the FDA in ways that may significantly affect our business and our current products and future products. Any new regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing regulations may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of our products. Delays in receipt of or failure to receive regulatory clearances or approvals for any future products would negatively impact our long-term business strategy.. In the U.S., there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system that restrict or regulate post-approval activities, which may affect our ability to profitably sell V-Go or any other product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. Such government-adopted reform measures may adversely impact the pricing of healthcare products and services in the United States or internationally and the amount of reimbursement available from third-party payors.. 48. For example, in March 2010, the ACA was signed into law. While the goal of healthcare reform is to expand coverage to more individuals, it also involved increased government price controls, additional regulatory mandates and other measures designed to constrain medical costs. The ACA substantially changed the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and commercial insurers, encouraged improvements in the quality of healthcare items and services and significantly impacted the medical device industries. The ACA, among other things, established annual fees and taxes on manufacturers of certain branded prescription drugs and medical devices (discussed in more detail below), required manufacturers to participate in a discount program for certain outpatient drugs under Medicare Part D, and promoted programs that increase the federal government's comparative effectiveness research.. In January 2017, the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate passed legislation, which, if signed into law by the President, would repeal certain aspects of the ACA. Further, on January 20, 2017, the President signed an Executive Order directing federal agencies with authorities and responsibilities under the ACA to waive, defer, grant exemptions from, or delay the implementation of any provision of the ACA that would impose a fiscal or regulatory burden on states, individuals, healthcare providers, health insurers, or manufacturers of pharmaceuticals or medical devices. Congress also could consider subsequent legislation to replace elements of the ACA that are repealed.. In the future there may continue to be additional proposals relating to the reform of the U.S. healthcare system generally, or operation of the Medicare Part D program specifically. Certain of these proposals could limit the prices we are able to charge for our product, or the amount of reimbursement available for our product, and could limit the acceptance and availability of our product.. Our financial performance may be adversely affected by medical device tax provisions in the ACA.. Beginning in 2013 through the end of 2015, the ACA imposed, among other things, an annual excise tax of 2.3% on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the United States beginning in 2013. Congress suspended this tax on December 18, 2015 for two years, for sales of devices during the period January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2017. We do not believe that V-Go was subject to this tax based on the retail exemption under applicable Treasury Regulations. However, the guidance regarding this exemption as applied to V-Go is not clear, and the availability of this exemption is subject to interpretation by the IRS, and the IRS may disagree with our analysis. We do not know if this provision will be repealed or if there will be changes to the retail exemption when the suspension of the device tax ends at the end of 2017. The potential financial impact this tax may have on our business is unclear and there can be no assurance that our business and financial results will not be negatively impacted.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The price of our common stock may be volatile and fluctuate substantially.. The quoted price of our common stock has been, and we expect it to continue to be, volatile. The stock market in general and the market for smaller medical device and pharmaceutical companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, you may not be able to sell your shares of common stock at or above your purchase price. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including:. • the success of competitive products or technologies;. • developments related to our existing or any future collaborations;. • regulatory or legal developments in the United States and other countries;. • developments or disputes concerning patent applications, issued patents or other proprietary rights;. • the recruitment or departure of key personnel;. • the level of expenses related to any of our product candidates;. • the results of our efforts to discover, develop, acquire or in-license additional product candidates or products;. • actual or anticipated changes in estimates as to financial results, development timelines or recommendations by securities analysts;. • variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us;. 49. • changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems;. • market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors;. • general economic, industry and market conditions; and. • the other factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section.. Raising additional funds by issuing securities may cause dilution to existing stockholders and raising funds through lending and licensing arrangements may restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights.. In the future, we may issue our authorized but previously unissued equity securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders and the purchasers of our common stock offered hereby. We are authorized to issue an aggregate of 300,000,000 shares of common stock and  50,000,000 shares of preferred stock. We may issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for our common stock in connection with hiring or retaining employees, future acquisitions, future sales of our securities for capital raising purposes, or for other business purposes. The future issuance of any such additional shares of our common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of the common stock. We expect we will need to raise additional capital in the near future to meet our working capital needs, and there can be no assurance that we will not be required to issue additional shares, warrants or other convertible securities in the future in conjunction with these capital raising efforts, including at a price (or exercise prices) below the price you paid for your stock.. An active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained.. In March 2017, we closed our public offering of common stock, and prior to such time, there was no active, liquid and orderly trading market for shares of our common stock. Although shares of our common stock are listed and trading on The Nasdaq Capital Market, an active trading market for our shares may not be sustained. If an active market for our common stock does not continue, it may be difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares without depressing the market price for the shares or sell their shares at or above the prices at which they acquired their shares or sell their shares at the time they would like to sell. Any inactive trading market for our common stock may also impair our ability to raise capital to continue to fund our operations by selling shares.. The ability of our Board of Directors to issue additional stock may prevent or make more difficult certain transactions, including a sale or merger.. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock with powers, rights and preferences designated by it. Shares of voting or convertible preferred stock could be issued, or rights to purchase such shares could be issued, to create voting impediments or to frustrate persons seeking to effect a takeover or otherwise gain control of us. The ability of our Board of Directors to issue such additional shares of preferred stock, with rights and preferences it deems advisable, could discourage an attempt by a party to acquire control of us by tender offer or other means. Such issuances could therefore deprive stockholders of benefits that could result from such an attempt, such as the realization of a premium over the market price for their shares in a tender offer or the temporary increase in market price that such an attempt could cause. Moreover, the issuance of such additional shares of preferred stock to persons friendly to our Board of Directors could make it more difficult to remove incumbent managers and directors from office even if such change were to be favorable to stockholders generally.. We are an \"emerging growth company\", and we cannot be certain whether the reduced reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act's reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of (1) the last day of the fiscal year (a) following the fifth anniversary of our first sale of common equity securities pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, which occurred in May 2015; (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.0 billion; or (c) in which we are deemed to be a \"large accelerated filer,\" which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the prior June 30th and (2) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities during the prior three-year period. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may suffer or be more volatile.. 50. Section 102 of the JOBS Act also provides that an \"emerging growth company\" can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. An \"emerging growth company\" can therefore delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. However, we are choosing to \"opt out\" of such extended transition period, and as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies.. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable.. We are a smaller reporting company, and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to smaller reporting companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are currently a \"smaller reporting company\", meaning that we are not an investment company, an asset- backed issuer, or a majority-owned subsidiary of a parent company that is not a smaller reporting company and have a non-affiliated public float of less than $75 million and annual revenues of less than $50.0 million during the most recently completed fiscal year. In the event that we are still considered a \"smaller reporting company,\" at such time as we cease being an \"emerging growth company,\" we will be required to provide additional disclosure in our SEC filings. However, similar to an \"emerging growth companies\", \"smaller reporting companies\" are able to provide simplified executive compensation disclosures in their filings; are exempt from the provisions of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requiring that independent registered public accounting firms provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting; and have certain other decreased disclosure obligations in their SEC filings, including, among other things, only being required to provide two years of audited financial statements in annual reports and in a registration statement under the Exchange Act on Form 10. Decreased disclosures in our SEC filings due to our status as a \"smaller reporting company\" may make it harder for investors to analyze our results of operations and financial prospects.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. We do not currently have and may never obtain research coverage by securities and industry analysts. If no or few securities or industry analysts commence coverage of us, the trading price for our stock would be negatively impacted. In the event we obtain securities or industry analyst coverage, if any of the analysts who cover us issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding us, our business model, our intellectual property or our stock performance, or if our operating results fail to meet the expectations of analysts, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Our principal stockholders own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval.. As of February 13, 2018, our 5% stockholders and their affiliates beneficially owned an aggregate of 5,185,968 shares, or 74.0% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will have significant influence and may be able to determine all matters requiring stockholder approval. For example, these stockholders may be able to control elections of directors, amendments of our organizational documents, or approval of any merger, sale of assets, or other major corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership could delay or prevent any acquisition of our company on terms that other stockholders may desire, and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock, and investors may lose the entire amount of their investment.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate such a declaration or payment for the foreseeable future.. We expect to use future earnings, if any, to fund business growth. Therefore, stockholders will not receive any funds absent a sale of their shares of common stock. We cannot assure stockholders of a positive return on their investment when they sell their shares, nor can we assure that stockholders will not lose the entire amount of their investment.. Provisions of our charter documents or Delaware law could delay or prevent an acquisition of the company, even if such an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could make it more difficult for you to change management.. 51. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempt by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult to replace or remove our board of directors. These provisions include:. • a classified board of directors so that not all directors are elected at one time;. • a prohibition on stockholder action through written consent;. • no cumulative voting in the election of directors;. • the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director;. • a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the board of directors, the chairperson of the board of directors, the chief executive officer or, in the absence of a chief executive officer, the president;. • an advance notice requirement for stockholder proposals and nominations;. • the authority of our board of directors to issue Preferred Stock with such terms as our board of directors may determine; and. • a requirement of approval of not less than 66 2/3% of all outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote to amend any bylaws by stockholder action, or to amend specific provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation.. Any failure to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting could materially adversely affect us.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to include in our annual reports on Form 10-K an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, at such time, if any, as we are an \"accelerated filer\" or a \"large accelerated filer,\" and no longer an \"emerging growth company,\" our independent registered public accounting firm will have to attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of such internal control over financial reporting. Our management assessed our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017 based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 Framework), or the 2013 Framework. Based on such assessment, we concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2017 to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.. Even though we have determined that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2017, our internal control over financial reporting will not prevent or detect all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud will be detected. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, or other regulatory authorities.. We could be subject to securities class action litigation.. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. If we face such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could harm our business.. 52"
