[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our securities is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes may affect Valley are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing Valley. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or that management currently believes are immaterial may also impair Valley's business operations. The value or market price of our securities could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.. We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the merger with USAmeriBancorp.. On January 1, 2018, Valley's significantly expanded its Florida franchise and enhanced its presence in the Tampa Bay market through the acquisition of USAmeriBancorp, Inc (USAB) headquartered in Clearwater, Florida. The acquisition of USAB and its wholly-owned subsidiary, USAmeriBank, also brought Valley to the Birmingham, Montgomery, and Tallapoosa areas in Alabama, The success of the USAB acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and to combine the businesses of Valley and USAB in a manner that permits growth opportunities to be realized and does not materially disrupt the existing customer relationships of USAB nor result in decreased revenues due to any loss of customers. However, to realize these anticipated benefits, the businesses of Valley and USAB must be successfully combined. If the combined company is not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected.. The anticipated cost savings from the merger are largely expected to derive from the absorption by Valley of many of USAB back-office administrative functions and the conversion of USAB's operating platform to Valley's systems. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, as well as the disruption of each company's ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any or all of which could adversely affect Valley's ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees after the merger or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. Integration efforts between the two companies will also divert management attention and resources. A failure to successfully navigate the complicated integration process could have an adverse effect on the combined company.. Another anticipated benefit from the merger is increased revenues of the combined company from sales of Valley's wide variety of financial products and increased lending utilizing Valley's substantially larger capital base in the USAB markets. An inability to successfully market Valley's products to the USAB customer base could cause the earnings of the combined company to be less than anticipated.. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and earnings.. Valley's earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond Valley's control, including general economic conditions, competition, and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the policies of the FRB. Changes in interest rates driven by such factors could influence not only the interest Valley receives on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) Valley's ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of Valley's financial assets, including the held to maturity and available for sale investment securities portfolios, and (iii) the average duration of Valley's interest-earning assets and liabilities. This also includes the risk that interest-earning assets may be more responsive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa (repricing risk), the risk that the individual interest rates or rate indices underlying various interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may not change in the same degree over a given time period (basis risk), and the risk of changing interest rate relationships across the spectrum of interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability maturities (yield curve risk). Any substantial or unexpected change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect. 17 2017 Form 10-K. on Valley's financial condition and results of operations. See additional information at the \"Net Interest Income\" and \"Interest Rate Sensitivity\" sections of our MD&A.. Our financial results and condition may be adversely impacted by changing economic conditions.. While the economy and real estate market conditions have significantly improved in recent years, a return to a recessionary economy could result in financial stress on our borrowers that would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Financial institutions can be affected by changing conditions in the real estate and financial markets. Volatility in the housing markets, real estate values and unemployment levels could result in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. The majority of Valley's lending is in northern and central New Jersey,  the New York City metropolitan area, Florida and Alabama. As a result of this geographic concentration, a significant broad-based deterioration in economic conditions in these areas could have a material adverse impact on the quality of Valley's loan portfolio, results of operations and future growth potential. Adverse economic conditions in our market areas can reduce our rate of growth, affect our customers' ability to repay loans and adversely impact our financial condition and earnings. General economic conditions, including inflation, unemployment and money supply fluctuations, also may adversely affect our profitability.. The future impact of changes to the Internal Revenue Code is uncertain and may adversely affect our business.. The U.S. Congress passed significant reform of the Internal Revenue Code, known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (Tax Act) at the end of 2017. While the decline in the federal corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent will lower Valley's income tax expense as a percentage of its taxable income in 2018, other provisions of the Tax Act negatively impacted Valley's consolidated financial statements and it may adversely affect Valley in the future.. The Tax Act imposes higher limitations on the deductibility of interest and property tax expenses which may adversely impact the property values of real estate used to secure loans and create an additional tax burden for many borrowers, particularly in high tax jurisdictions such as New Jersey and New York where Valley operates. These and other federal tax changes could significantly impact the financial health of our customers, potentially resulting in, among other things, an inability to repay loans or maintain deposits at Valley in states where Valley operates, especially New York and New Jersey.  Any negative financial impact to our customers resulting from tax reform could adversely impact our financial condition and earnings.. The ultimate impact of the Tax Act on our business, customers and shareholders is uncertain and could be adverse.. Claims and litigation could result in significant expenses, losses and damage to our reputation.. From time to time as part of  Valley's normal course of business, customers, bankruptcy trustees, former customers, contractual counterparties, third parties and former employees make claims and take legal action against Valley based on actions or inactions of Valley. If such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to Valley, they may result in financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of Valley and its products and services. This may also impact customer demand for Valley's products and services.  Any financial liability could have a material adverse effect on Valley's financial condition and results of operations. Any reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on Valley's business.. Valley currently has two significant pending lawsuits. See the \"Litigation\" section under Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information and significant pending lawsuits.. Cyber-attacks and information security breaches could compromise our information or result in the data of our customers being improperly divulged, which could expose us to liability, losses and escalating operating costs.. Many financial institutions and companies engaged in data processing have reported significant breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, denial-of-service, or sabotage systems, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyber-attacks and other means. Although we frequently experience attempted cybersecurity attacks against our systems, to date, none of these incidents have resulted in material losses, known breaches of customer data or significant disruption of services to our customers. However, there can be no assurance that we will not incur such issues in the future, exposing us to significant on-going operational costs and reputational harm. Additionally, risk exposure to cyber security matters will remain elevated or increase in the future due to, among other things, the increasing size and prominence of Valley in the financial services industry, our expansion of Internet and mobile banking tools and products based on customer needs, and the system and customer account conversions associated with the integration of merger targets.. 2017 Form 10-K 18. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could adversely affect our asset quality and profitability for those loans secured by real property and increase the number of defaults and the level of losses within our loan portfolio.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 74 percent of our total loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and could deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. A downturn in the real estate market in our primary market areas could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our profitability and asset quality. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and shareholders' equity could be adversely affected. The declines in home or commercial real estate prices in the New Jersey, New York and Florida markets we primarily serve, along with the reduced availability of mortgage credit, also may result in increases in delinquencies and losses in our loan portfolios. Unexpected decreases in home or commercial real estate prices coupled with slow economic growth and elevated levels of unemployment could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses. In that event, our earnings could be adversely affected.. The secondary market for residential mortgage loans, for the most part, is limited to conforming Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans. The effects of this limited mortgage market combined with another correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in price reductions in single-family home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans held, mortgage loan originations and gains on sale of mortgage loans. Declines in real estate values and home sales volumes, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses or other factors, could have further adverse effects on borrowers that result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. For additional risks related to our sales of residential mortgages in the secondary market, see the \"We may incur future losses in connection with repurchases and indemnification payments related to mortgages that we have sold into the secondary market\" risk factor below.. Net gains on sales of residential mortgage loans are a significant component of our non-interest income and could fluctuate in future periods.. Net gains on sales of residential mortgage loans represented over 20 percent of our non-interest income for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.  Our ability or decision to sell a portion of our mortgage loan production in the secondary market is dependent upon, amongst other factors, the levels of market interest rates, consumer demand marketable loans, our sales and pricing strategies, the economy and our need to maintain the appropriate level of interest rate risk on our balance sheet.  A change in one or more of these or other factors could significantly impact our ability to sell mortgage loans in the future and adversely impact the level of our non-interest income and financial results.. Higher charge-offs and weak credit conditions could require us to increase our allowance for credit losses through a provision charge to earnings.. We maintain an allowance for credit losses based on our assessment of credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio (including unfunded credit commitments). The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and conditions. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the future, including the impact of national and regional economic conditions on the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. If our judgment proves to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Additionally, bank regulators review the classification of our loans in their examination of us and we may be required in the future to change the classification on certain of our loans, which may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or loan charge-offs. If actual net charge-offs were to exceed Valley's allowance, its earnings would be negatively impacted by additional provisions for loan losses. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by the OCC or otherwise could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. Proposed revenue enhancements and efficiency improvements may not be achieved.. In December 2016, Valley announced a company-wide earnings enhancement initiative called LIFT to improve earnings and reach certain financial targets. While we have completed certain phases of the LIFT program, there may be changes in the scope or assumptions underlying the initiative, delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to the initiative and higher than expected or unanticipated costs to implement them, and some benefits may not be fully achieved. Even if the LIFT program is successful, many factors can influence our financial results, some of which are not wholly in our control.. 19 2017 Form 10-K. We may be required to increase our allowance for credit losses as a result of changes to an accounting standard.. In 2016, the FASB released a new standard for determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses. The new standard will be effective for Valley for reporting periods beginning January 1, 2020. The new credit loss model will be a significant change from the standard in place today, as it requires the allowance for credit losses to be calculated based on current expected credit losses (commonly referred to as the \"CECL model\") rather than losses inherent in the portfolio as of a point in time. When adopted, the CECL model will likely increase our allowance for credit losses, which could materially affect our financial condition and future results of operations. The extent of the increase and its impact to our financial condition is under evaluation, but will ultimately depend upon the nature and characteristics of Valley's portfolio at the adoption date, and the macroeconomic conditions and forecasts at that date; therefore, the potential financial impact is currently unknown.. We may not be able to detect money laundering and other illegal or improper activities fully or on a timely basis, which could expose us to additional liability and could have a material adverse effect on us.. We are required to comply with anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism and other laws and regulations in the United States. These laws and regulations require us, among other things, to adopt and enforce \"know-your-customer\" policies and procedures and to report suspicious and large transactions to applicable regulatory authorities. These laws and regulations have become increasingly complex and detailed, require improved systems and sophisticated monitoring and compliance personnel and have become the subject of enhanced government supervision.. While we have adopted policies and procedures aimed at detecting and preventing the use of our banking network for money laundering and related activities, those policies and procedures may not completely eliminate instances in which we may be used by customers to engage in money laundering and other illegal or improper activities. To the extent we fail to fully comply with applicable laws and regulations, the OCC, along with other banking agencies, have the authority to impose fines and other penalties and sanctions on us. In addition, our business and reputation could suffer if customers use our banking network for money laundering or illegal or improper purposes.. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, which may result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Management periodically reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. As disclosed in \"Item 9A - Controls and Procedures,\" a material weakness was identified in our internal control over financial reporting resulting from Valley not assigning the appropriate levels of responsibility and authority to its Ethics and Compliance group to identify and evaluate the severity and financial reporting implications of allegations of non-compliance with laws and regulations, Company policies and procedures and other complaints. Additionally, Valley did not establish controls over required communications of such matters to senior management or others within the organization and to those charged with governance to enable them to conduct or monitor the investigation and resolution of such matters on a timely basis.  Based on this material weakness, management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2017. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The material weakness did not result in any misstatement of the Company's consolidated financial statements for any period presented and we are implementing remedial measures intended to address the material weakness and related disclosure controls. However, if the remedial measures we are implementing are insufficient, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting or in our disclosure controls occur in the future, our future consolidated financial statements or other information filed with the SEC may contain material misstatements. Failure to maintain effective controls or to timely implement any necessary improvement of our internal and disclosure controls could, among other things, result in losses from errors, harm our reputation, or cause investors to lose confidence in the reported financial information, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business results of operations and financial condition.. We could incur future goodwill impairment.. If our estimates of the fair value of our goodwill change as a result of changes in our business or other factors, we may determine a goodwill impairment charge is necessary.  Estimates of the fair value of goodwill are determined using several factors and assumptions, including, but not limited to, industry pricing multiples and estimated cash flows.  Based upon Valley's 2017 and  2016 goodwill impairment testing, the fair values of its four reporting units, wealth management, consumer lending, commercial lending, and investment management, were in excess of their carrying values.  If the fair values of the four reporting units were. 2017 Form 10-K 20. less than their book value of the total common shareholders' equity for an extended period of time, Valley would consider this and other factors, including the anticipated cash flows of each of the reporting units, to determine whether goodwill is impaired.  No assurance can be given that we will not record an impairment loss on goodwill in the future and any such impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  At December 31, 2017, our goodwill totaled $690.6 million.  See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.. We may reduce or eliminate the cash dividend on our common stock, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such cash dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock cash dividend in the future depending upon our results of operations, financial condition or other metrics. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Additionally, as a bank holding company, our ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on federal regulatory policies and regulations including the supervisory policies and guidelines of the OCC and the FRB regarding capital adequacy and dividends. Among other things, consultation of the FRB supervisory staff is required in advance of our declaration or payment of a dividend that exceeds our earnings for a four-quarter period in which the dividend is being paid.. If our subsidiaries are unable to make dividends and distributions to us, we may be unable to make dividend payments to our preferred and common shareholders or interest payments on our long-term borrowings and junior subordinated debentures issued to capital trusts.. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our banking and non-banking subsidiaries and depend on dividends, distributions, and other payments from the Bank and its non-banking subsidiaries to fund cash dividend payments on our preferred and common stock and to fund most payments on our other obligations. Regulations relating to capital requirements affect the ability of the Bank to pay dividends and other distributions to us and to make loans to us. Additionally, if our subsidiaries' earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our preferred and common shareholders or interest payments on our long-term borrowings and junior subordinated debentures issued to capital trusts. Furthermore, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors.. The required accounting treatment of purchased credit-impaired (PCI) loans, including loans acquired through business combinations, FDIC-assisted transactions, or bulk loan purchases could result in higher net interest margins and interest income in current periods and lower net interest margins and interest income in future periods.. Under U.S. GAAP, we record loans acquired at a discount (that is due, in part, to credit,) at fair value which may underestimate the actual performance of such loans. As a result, if these loans outperform our original fair value estimates, the difference between our original estimate and the actual performance of the loan (the \"discount\") is accreted into net interest income. Thus, our net interest margins may initially appear higher. We expect the yields on our loans to decline as our acquired loan portfolio pays down or matures and we expect downward pressure on our interest income to the extent that the runoff on our acquired loan portfolio is not replaced with comparable high-yielding loans. This could result in higher net interest margins and interest income in current periods and lower net interest rate margin and lower interest income in future periods.  See the \"Loan Portfolio\" section of our MD&A and Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for additional analysis and discussion of our PCI loans.. An increase in our non-performing assets may reduce our interest income and increase our net loan charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and operating expenses.. Our non-accrual loans decreased from 0.82 percent at December 31, 2013 to 0.22 percent and 0.26 percent of total loans at December 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively. Although the economy continued to gradually improve during 2017, a downturn in economic or real estate market conditions could result in increased charge-offs to our allowance for loan losses and lost interest income relating to non-performing loans. Additionally, our loan portfolio includes taxi medallion loans that are largely classified loans at December 31, 2017 and continued negative trends in the market valuations of the underlying taxi medallion collateral caused by ride-sharing services could impact the future performance of such loans, the level of our loan charge-offs and the provision for loan loans.. Non-performing assets (including non-accrual loans, other real estate owned, and other repossessed assets) totaled $57.5 million at December 31, 2017. These non-performing assets can adversely affect our net income mainly through decreased interest income and increased operating expenses incurred to maintain such assets or loss charges related to subsequent declines in the estimated fair value of foreclosed assets. Adverse changes in the value of our non-performing assets, or the underlying collateral, or in the borrowers' performance or financial conditions could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial. 21 2017 Form 10-K. condition. There can be no assurance that we will not experience increases in non-performing loans in the future, or that our non-performing assets will not result in lower financial returns in the future.. Extensive regulation and supervision has a negative impact on our ability to compete in a cost-effective manner and may subject us to material compliance costs and penalties.. Valley, primarily through its principal subsidiary and certain non-bank subsidiaries, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. Many laws and regulations affect Valley's lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. They encourage Valley to ensure a satisfactory level of lending in defined areas, and establish and maintain comprehensive programs relating to anti-money laundering and customer identification. Congress, state legislatures, and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect Valley in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject Valley to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products it may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on Valley's business, financial condition and results of operations. Valley's compliance with certain of these laws will be considered by banking regulators when reviewing bank merger and bank holding company acquisitions.. We are subject to numerous laws designed to protect consumers, including the Community Reinvestment Act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to a wide variety of sanctions.. The Community Reinvestment Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose community investment and nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Department of Justice and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful regulatory challenge to an institution's performance under the Community Reinvestment Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act or other fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, restrictions on mergers and acquisitions, restrictions on expansion and restrictions on entering new business lines. Private parties also may challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in litigation. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Future acquisitions may dilute shareholder value, especially tangible book value per share.. We regularly evaluate opportunities to acquire other financial institutions. As a result, merger and acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt, or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value per common share may occur in connection with any future acquisitions.. Future offerings of common stock, preferred stock, debt or other securities may adversely affect the market price of our stock and dilute the holdings of existing shareholders.. In the future, we may increase our capital resources or, if our or the Bank's actual or projected capital ratios fall below or near the current (Basel III) regulatory required minimums, we or the Bank could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of common stock, preferred stock or debt securities.  Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both.  Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution.  Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock, and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock.  In June 2015, Valley issued 4.6 million shares of non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock with a dividend at issuance of 6.25 percent and a liquidation preference of $25 per share.  In December 2016, Valley issued 9.24 million shares of common stock with the intention to use the proceeds for continued growth in the Bank's loan portfolio, as well as other general corporate purposes.  In August 2017, Valley issued 4.0 million shares of non-cumulative perpetual stock with a dividend at issuance of 5.50 percent and a liquidation preference of $25 per share. See Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for more details on our common and preferred stock.. Changes in accounting policies or accounting standards could cause us to change the manner in which we report our financial results and condition in adverse ways and could subject us to additional costs and expenses.. Valley's accounting policies are fundamental to understanding its financial results and condition. Some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of Valley's assets or liabilities and financial results. Valley identified its accounting policies regarding the allowance for loan losses, security valuations and impairments, goodwill and other. 2017 Form 10-K 22. intangible assets, and income taxes to be critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. Under each of these policies, it is possible that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions, using different assumptions, or as new information becomes available.. From time to time, the FASB and the SEC change their guidance governing the form and content of Valley's external financial statements. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), such as the FASB, SEC, banking regulators and Valley's independent registered public accounting firm, may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. Such changes are expected to continue, and may accelerate dependent upon the FASB and International Accounting Standards Board commitments to achieving convergence between U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. Changes in U.S. GAAP and changes in current interpretations are beyond Valley's control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how Valley reports its financial results and condition. In certain cases, Valley could be required to apply a new or revised guidance retroactively or apply existing guidance differently (also retroactively) which may result in Valley restating prior period financial statements for material amounts. Additionally, significant changes to U.S. GAAP may require costly technology changes, additional training and personnel, and other expenses that will negatively impact our results of operations.. We may be unable to adequately manage our liquidity risk, which could affect our ability to meet our obligations as they become due, capitalize on growth opportunities, or pay regular dividends on our common stock.. Liquidity risk is the potential that Valley will be unable to meet its obligations as they come due, capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise, or pay regular dividends on our common stock because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding in a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances.. Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit commitments to borrowers, mortgage and other loan originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of borrowings, dividends to shareholders, operating expenses and capital expenditures. Liquidity is derived primarily from retail deposit growth and retention; principal and interest payments on loans; principal and interest payments on investment securities; sale, maturity and prepayment of investment securities; net cash provided from operations, and access to other funding sources.. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could have a detrimental impact to our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to persistent weakness, or downturn, in the economy or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not necessarily specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole.. The loss of or decrease in lower-cost funding sources within our deposit base may adversely impact our net interest income and net income.. Checking and savings, NOW, and money market deposit account balances and other forms of customer deposits can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market or money market or fixed income mutual funds, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, Valley could lose a low cost source of funds, increasing its funding costs and reducing Valley's net interest income and net income.. Our market share and income may be adversely affected by our inability to successfully compete against larger and more diverse financial service providers and digital fintech start-up firms.. Valley faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources than Valley to deal with the potential negative changes in the financial markets and regulatory landscape. Valley competes with other providers of financial services such as commercial and savings banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, money market and mutual funds, mortgage companies, title agencies, asset managers, insurance companies, and a large list of other local, regional and national institutions which offer financial services. Additionally, the financial services industry is facing a wave of digital disruption from fintech companies that provide innovative web-based solutions to traditional retail banking services and products.  Fintech companies tend to have stronger operating efficiencies and less regulatory burdens than their traditional bank counterparts, including Valley.. Mergers and acquisitions of financial institutions within New Jersey, the New York Metropolitan area and Florida may also occur given the current difficult banking environment and add more competitive pressure to a substantial portion of our marketplace. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. If Valley is unable to compete effectively, it may lose market share and its income generated from loans, deposits, and other financial products may decline.. 23 2017 Form 10-K. Failure to successfully implement our growth strategies could cause us to incur substantial costs and expenses which may not be recouped and adversely affect our future profitability.. From time to time, Valley may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. Valley may invest significant time and resources to develop and market new lines of business and/or products and services. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting customer preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Additionally, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of Valley's system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on Valley's business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may not keep pace with technological change within the financial services industry, negatively affecting our ability to remain competitive and profitable.. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Valley's future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in Valley's operations. Many of Valley's competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Valley may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on Valley's business and, in turn, Valley's financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on our systems, employees and certain service providers, and if our system fails, our operations could be disrupted.. We face the risk that the design of our controls and procedures, including those to mitigate the risk of fraud by employees or outsiders, may prove to be inadequate or are circumvented, thereby causing delays in detection of errors or inaccuracies in data and information. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may also be subject to disruptions of our systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (including, for example, electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to losses in service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as us) and to the risk that our (or our vendors') business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. We maintain a system of comprehensive policies and a control framework designed to monitor vendor risks including, among other things, (i) changes in the vendor's organizational structure or internal controls, (ii) changes in the vendor's financial condition, (iii) changes in the vendor's support for existing products and services and (iv) changes in the vendor's strategic focus. While we believe these policies and procedures help to mitigate risk, the failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements could be disruptive to our operations, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities in which we engage can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel, including, but not limited to, the executive officers disclosed in Item 1 of this Annual Report, could have a material adverse impact on our business because we would lose the employees' skills, knowledge of the market, and years of industry experience and may have difficulty promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.. Severe weather, acts of terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our ability to conduct our business.. A significant portion of our primary markets is located near coastal waters which could generate naturally occurring severe weather, or in response to climate change, that could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Many areas in New Jersey, New York and Florida in which our branches operate are subject to severe flooding from time to time and significant weather related disruptions may become common events in the future. Heavy storms and hurricanes can also cause severe property. 2017 Form 10-K 24. damage and result in business closures, negatively impacting both the financial health of retail and commercial customers and our ability to operate our business. The risk of significant disruption and potential losses from future storm activity exists in all of our primary markets.. Additionally, New York City and New Jersey remain central targets for potential acts of terrorism against the United States. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although we have established and regularly test disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review prior to originating certain commercial real estate loans, as well as before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may incur future losses in connection with repurchases and indemnification payments related to mortgages that we have sold into the secondary market.. We engage in the origination of residential mortgages for sale into the secondary market. In connection with such sales, we make representations and warranties, which, if  breached, may require us to repurchase such loans, substitute other loans or indemnify the purchasers of such loans for actual losses incurred in respect of such loans. The substantial decline in residential real estate values and the standards used by some originators has resulted in more repurchase requests to many secondary market participants from secondary market purchasers. Since January 1, 2006, we have originated and sold approximately 24,000 individual residential mortgages totaling approximately $5.1 billion. Of  the $5.1 billion in originations, approximately $9.2 million in unpaid principal balances remain outstanding from the origination years 2006 through 2008. These particular years are considered to be 'high risk' years in the mortgage industry due to the escalation in housing prices, and subsequent decline during the financial crisis. However, these potentially higher risk loans in our retained mortgage loan servicing portfolio continued to outperform Fannie Mae's overall portfolio performance (for each applicable origination year) at December 31, 2017. Over the past several years, we have experienced a nominal amount of repurchase requests, and only a few of which have actually resulted in repurchases by Valley (only two and one loan repurchase(s) in 2017 and 2016, respectively). None of the loan repurchases resulted in material loss. As of December 31, 2017, no reserves pertaining to loans sold were established on our financial statements. While we currently believe our repurchase risk remains low based upon our careful loan underwriting and documentation standards, it is possible that requests to repurchase loans could occur in the future and such requests may have a negative financial impact on us."
