[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. The following \"risk factors\" could materially and adversely affect Valvoline's business, operations, financial position or future financial performance. This information should be considered when reading the rest of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Management's Discussion and Analysis and the consolidated financial statements and related notes. These factors could cause future results to differ from those in forward-looking statements and from historical trends.. Risks Related to Valvoline's Business. Damage to Valvoline's brand and reputation could have an adverse effect on its business.. Maintaining Valvoline's strong reputation with both consumers and customers is a key component of its business. Product or service complaints or recalls, its inability to ship, sell or transport affected products and governmental investigations may harm its reputation with consumers and customers, which may materially and adversely affect its business operations, decrease sales and increase costs.. Valvoline manufactures and markets a variety of products, such as automotive and industrial lubricants and antifreeze, and provides automotive maintenance services. If allegations are made that some of Valvoline's products have failed to perform up to consumers' or customers' expectations or have caused damage or injury to individuals or property, or that Valvoline's services were not provided in a manner consistent with its vision and values, the public may develop a negative perception of its brands. In addition, if Valvoline's franchisees or Express Care operators do not successfully operate their quick lube service centers in a manner consistent with Valvoline's standards, its brand, image and reputation could be harmed, which in turn could negatively impact its business and operating results. In addition, if any party with whom Valvoline has a sponsorship relationship were to generate adverse publicity, Valvoline's brand image could be harmed. A negative public perception of Valvoline's brands, whether justified or not, could impair its reputation, involve it in litigation, damage its brand equity and have a material adverse effect on its business. In addition, damage to the reputation of Valvoline's competitors or others in its industry could negatively impact Valvoline's reputation and business.. Valvoline has set aggressive growth goals for its business, including increasing sales, cash flow, market share, margins and number of VIOC stores, in order to achieve its long-term strategic objectives. Execution of Valvoline's growth strategies and business plans to facilitate that growth involves a number of risks.. Valvoline has set aggressive growth goals for its business in order to meet its long-term strategic objectives and improve shareholder value. Valvoline's failure to meet one or more of these goals or objectives would negatively impact its business and is one of the most important risks that Valvoline faces. Aspects of that risk include, among others, changes to the economic environment, changes to the competitive landscape, including those related to automotive maintenance recommendations and consumer preferences, attraction and retention of skilled employees, the potential failure of product innovation plans, failure to comply with existing or new regulatory requirements, failure to maintain a competitive cost structure and other risks outlined in greater detail in this \"Risk Factors\" section.. Demand for Valvoline's products and services could be adversely affected by consumer spending trends, declining economic conditions, trends in Valvoline's industry and a number of other factors, all of which are beyond its control.. Demand for Valvoline's products and services may be affected by a number of factors it cannot control, including the number and age of vehicles in current service, regulation and legislation, technological advances in the automotive industry and changes in engine technology, including the adoption rate of electric or other alternative engine technologies, changing automotive original equipment manufacturer (\"OEM\") specifications and longer recommended intervals between oil changes. In addition, during periods of declining economic conditions, consumers may defer vehicle maintenance. Similarly, increases in energy prices or other factors may cause miles driven to decline, resulting in less wear and tear and lower demand for maintenance, which may lead to consumers deferring purchases of Valvoline's products and services. All of these factors, which impact metrics such as drain intervals and oil changes per day, could result in a decline in the demand for Valvoline's products and services and adversely affect its sales, cash flows and overall financial condition.. The success of Valvoline's growth initiatives depends on its ability to successfully develop and implement one or more integrated digital platforms that will help it better understand consumers and more effectively engage them.. Valvoline is in the process of designing and implementing a number of digital platforms that will integrate its operations with customer and consumer data. The successful development and implementation of these digital platforms will depend on Valvoline's ability to identify an appropriate strategy, dedicate adequate resources and select technologies that will provide it with adequate flexibility to adapt to future developments in the marketplace and changes in consumer and customer behavior. Valvoline has incurred and expects to incur significant upfront investments to develop these digital platforms. There is a risk that once implemented, these. 11. digital platforms will not deliver all or part of the expected benefits, including additional sales. As Valvoline develops and implements its digital platforms, it may elect to modify, replace or abandon certain technology initiatives, which could result in asset write-downs.. Valvoline's success depends upon its ability to attract and retain key employees and the identification and development of talent to succeed senior management.. Valvoline's success depends on its ability to attract and retain key personnel, and it relies heavily on its senior management team. The inability to recruit and retain key personnel or the unexpected loss of key personnel may adversely affect Valvoline's operations. This risk of unwanted employee turnover is substantial in positions that require certain technical expertise. This risk is also substantial in developing international markets Valvoline has targeted for growth and in North America, where attracting marketing and technical expertise to geographies necessary to support its management is important to its success. In addition, because of Valvoline's reliance on its senior management team, its future success depends, in part, on its ability to identify and develop or recruit talent to succeed its senior management and other key positions throughout the organization. If Valvoline fails to identify and develop or recruit successors, it is at risk of being harmed by the departures of these key employees.. Valvoline faces significant competition from other companies, which places downward pressure on prices and margins and may adversely affect Valvoline's business and results of operations.. Valvoline operates in highly competitive markets, competing against a number of domestic and foreign companies. Competition is based on several key criteria, including brand recognition, product performance and quality, product price, product availability and security of supply, ability to develop products in cooperation with customers and customer service, as well as the ability to bring innovative products or services to the marketplace. Certain key competitors, including Shell/Pennzoil, BP/Castrol and Exxon/Mobil, are significantly larger than Valvoline and have greater financial resources and more diverse portfolios of products and services, leading to greater operating and financial flexibility. As a result, these competitors may be better able to withstand adverse changes in conditions within the relevant industry, the prices of raw materials and energy or general economic conditions. In addition, competitors' pricing decisions could compel Valvoline to decrease its prices, which could negatively affect Valvoline's margins and profitability. Additional competition in markets served by Valvoline could adversely affect margins and profitability and could lead to a reduction in market share. Also, Valvoline competes in certain markets that are flat to declining, such as the U.S. passenger car motor oil market. If Valvoline's strategies for dealing with declining markets and leveraging market opportunities are not successful, its results of operations could be negatively affected.. Because of the concentration of Valvoline's sales to a small number of retailers, the loss of one or more, or a significant reduction in, orders from, its top retail customers could adversely affect its financial results, as could the loss of one of its distributor relationships.. Valvoline's Core North America segment's sales represented approximately 48% of Valvoline's total sales in fiscal 2017. NAPA Auto Parts, AutoZone, Advance Auto Parts, O'Reilly Auto Parts and another large national retailer together accounted for 47% of Core North America's fiscal 2017 sales and 44% of Core North America's outstanding trade accounts receivable as of September 30, 2017. NAPA Auto Parts accounted for greater than 16% of Core North America's fiscal 2017 sales. Valvoline's volume of sales to these customers fluctuates and can be influenced by many factors, including product pricing, purchasing patterns and promotional activities. The loss of, or significant reduction in orders from, one of Valvoline's top five retail customers or any other significant customer could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results  of operations or cash flows, as could customer disputes regarding shipments, fees, merchandise condition or related matters. Valvoline's inability to collect accounts receivable from one of its major customers, or a significant deterioration in the financial condition of one of these customers, including a bankruptcy filing or a liquidation, could also have a material adverse effect on Valvoline's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Valvoline also relies on independent distributors to sell and deliver its products. Disagreements or the loss of Valvoline's relationship with a distributor could also have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Valvoline's marketing activities may not be successful.. Valvoline invests substantial resources in advertising, consumer promotions and other marketing activities in order to maintain and strengthen its brand image and product awareness. The Valvoline name and brand image are integral to the growth of its business and its expansion into new markets. Failure to adequately market and differentiate its products and services from competitive products and services could adversely affect Valvoline's business. There can be no assurances that Valvoline's marketing strategies will be effective or that its investments in advertising activities will result in a corresponding increase in sales of its products. If Valvoline's marketing initiatives are not successful, it will have incurred significant expenses without the benefit of higher sales of its products.. Valvoline's business exposes it to potential product liability claims and recalls, false advertising claims and other claims, which could adversely affect its financial condition and performance.. The development, manufacture and sale of automotive, commercial and industrial lubricants and automotive chemicals and the provision of automotive maintenance services involve an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims, false advertising. 12. claims, product recalls, workplace exposure, product seizures and related adverse publicity. A product liability claim, false advertising claim or related judgment against the Company could also result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, affect consumer or customer confidence in Valvoline's products and services, and divert management's time and attention from other responsibilities. Although Valvoline maintains product and general liability insurance, there can be no assurance that the type or level of coverage it has is adequate or that it will be able to continue to maintain its existing insurance or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. A product recall or a partially or completely uninsured product liability, false advertising or other judgment against Valvoline could have a material adverse effect on its reputation, results of operations and financial condition.. Failure to develop and market new products and production technologies could impact Valvoline's competitive position and have an adverse effect on its business and results of operations.. The lubricants industry is subject to periodic technological change and ongoing product improvements. In order to maintain margins and remain competitive, Valvoline must successfully develop and introduce new products or improvements that appeal to its customers and ultimately to global consumers. Changes in additive technologies, base oil production techniques and sources, and the demand for improved performance by OEMs and consumers place particular pressure on Valvoline to continue to improve its product offerings. Valvoline's efforts to respond to changes in consumer demand in a timely and cost-efficient manner to drive growth could be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in product development and service innovation, including the inability to identify viable new products, successfully complete research and development, obtain regulatory approvals, obtain intellectual property protection or gain market acceptance of new products or service techniques. Due to the lengthy development process, technological challenges and intense competition, there can be no assurance that any of the products Valvoline is currently developing, or could develop in the future, will achieve substantial commercial success. The time and expense invested in product development may not result in commercial products or provide revenues. Valvoline could be required to write-off its investments related to a new product that does not reach commercial viability. Moreover, Valvoline may experience operating losses after new products are introduced and commercialized because of high start-up costs, unexpected manufacturing costs or problems, or lack of demand.. The impact of changing laws or regulations or the manner of interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or regulations could adversely impact Valvoline's financial performance and restrict its ability to operate its business or execute its strategies.. New laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations or the manner of their interpretation or enforcement, could increase Valvoline's cost of doing business and restrict its ability to operate its business or execute its strategies. This risk includes, among other things, the possible taxation under U.S. law of certain income from foreign operations, the possible taxation under foreign laws of certain income Valvoline reports in other jurisdictions, regulations related to the protection of private information of its employees and customers, regulations issued by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (and analogous non-U.S. agencies) affecting Valvoline and its customers, compliance with the REACH regulation (and analogous non-EU initiatives). In addition, compliance with laws and regulations is complicated by Valvoline's substantial and growing global footprint, which will require significant and additional resources to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations in the approximately 140 countries where Valvoline conducts business.. Valvoline's global operations expose it to trade and economic sanctions and other restrictions imposed by the United States, the European Union and other governments and organizations. The U.S. Departments of Justice, Commerce, State and Treasury and other federal agencies and authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against corporations and individuals for violations of economic sanctions laws, export control laws, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\") and other federal statutes and regulations, including those established by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (\"OFAC\"). Under these laws and regulations, as well as other anti-corruption laws, anti-money-laundering laws, export control laws, customs laws, sanctions laws and other laws governing Valvoline's operations, various government agencies may require export licenses, may seek to impose modifications to business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries or with sanctioned persons or entities and modifications to compliance programs, which may increase compliance costs, and may subject Valvoline to fines, penalties and other sanctions. A violation of these laws or regulations could adversely impact Valvoline's business, results of operations and financial condition.. Although Valvoline has implemented policies and procedures in these areas, it cannot assure you that its policies and procedures are sufficient or that directors, officers, employees, representatives, distributors, consultants and agents have not engaged and will not engage in conduct for which Valvoline may be held responsible, nor can Valvoline assure you that its business partners have not engaged and will not engage in conduct that could materially affect their ability to perform their contractual obligations to Valvoline or even result in its being held liable for such conduct. Violations of the FCPA, OFAC restrictions or other export control, anti-corruption, anti-money-laundering and anti-terrorism laws or regulations may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and Valvoline may be subject to other liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. 13. Imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect Valvoline's business, financial condition, reputation or results of operations.. Valvoline's products are made, manufactured, distributed or sold in approximately 140 countries and territories. As such, Valvoline is subject to a myriad of tax laws and regulations applicable in those countries and territories, as well as those of the United States and its various state and local governments. Economic and political pressure to increase tax revenues in jurisdictions where Valvoline operates or does business, or the adoption of new or reformed tax regulations, may make resolving tax disputes more difficult, and the final resolution of tax audits and any related litigation may differ from historical provisions and accruals resulting in an adverse impact on Valvoline's business, financial condition, reputation or results of operations. In addition to tax reform being considered in the United States, many other countries are actively considering changes to existing tax laws. Changes in how United States multinational corporations are taxed on earnings, including changes to currently enacted tax rates, could adversely affect Valvoline's business, financial condition or results of operations. There exists the potential for comprehensive tax reform in the United States that may significantly change the tax rules applicable to U.S. domiciled corporations. Valvoline cannot assess what the overall effect of such potential legislation could be on its results of operations or cash flows.. Valvoline's substantial global operations subject it to risks of doing business in foreign countries, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations.. Sales from Valvoline's International business segment accounted for 26% of its sales for fiscal 2017. Valvoline expects sales from international markets to continue to represent an even larger portion of its sales in the future. Also, a significant portion of Valvoline's manufacturing capacity is located outside of the United States. Accordingly, its business is subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, cultural, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions.. The global nature of Valvoline's business presents difficulties in hiring and maintaining a workforce in certain countries. Fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect the profitability in U.S. dollars of products and services provided in foreign countries. In addition, foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax Valvoline's foreign income, or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls. The imposition of tariffs is also a risk that could impair Valvoline's financial performance. In addition, joint ventures, particularly Valvoline's existing joint ventures with Cummins in India and China, are an important part of its growth strategy internationally. If Valvoline's relationship with one of its joint venture partners were to deteriorate, it could negatively impact Valvoline's ability to achieve its growth goals internationally.. Certain legal and political risks are also inherent in the operation of a company with Valvoline's global scope. For example, it may be more difficult for Valvoline to enforce its agreements or collect receivables through foreign legal systems. There is a risk that foreign governments may nationalize private enterprises in certain countries where Valvoline operates. Terrorist activities and the response to such activities may threaten Valvoline's operations. Social and cultural norms in certain countries may not support compliance with Valvoline's corporate policies including those that require compliance with substantive laws and regulations. Also, changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where Valvoline operates are a risk to Valvoline's financial performance and future growth. For example, Valvoline exited its Venezuelan joint venture in 2015 due in part to the continued lack of exchangeability between the Venezuelan bolivar and U.S. dollar and other Venezuelan regulations. In addition, in executing its global growth strategies, Valvoline has entered into several important strategic relationships with joint venture partners, such as Cummins, unaffiliated distributors, toll manufacturers and others. The need to identify financially and commercially strong partners to fill these roles who will comply with the high manufacturing and legal compliance standards Valvoline requires is a risk to Valvoline's financial performance.. As Valvoline continues to operate its business globally, its success will depend, in part, on its ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other related risks. There can be no assurance that the consequences of these and other factors relating to Valvoline's multinational operations will not have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations.. The competitive nature of Valvoline's markets or other factors may delay or prevent it from passing increases in raw material costs on to its customers. In addition, certain of Valvoline's suppliers may be unable to deliver products or raw materials or may withdraw from contractual arrangements. The occurrence of either event could adversely affect Valvoline's results of operations.. Rising and volatile raw material prices, especially for base oil and lubricant additives, may negatively impact Valvoline's costs, results of operations and the valuation of its inventory. Valvoline is not always able to raise prices in response to increased costs of raw materials, and its ability to pass on the costs of such price increases is dependent upon market conditions. Likewise, reductions in the valuation of Valvoline's inventory due to market volatility may not be recovered and could result in losses.. Valvoline purchases certain products and raw materials from suppliers, often pursuant to written supply contracts. If those suppliers are unable to meet Valvoline's orders in a timely manner or choose to terminate or otherwise avoid contractual arrangements, Valvoline may not be able to make alternative supply arrangements. For base oils, Valvoline's suppliers are primarily large oil. 14. producers, many of whom operate oil lubricant production and sales businesses as part of their enterprise. There are risks inherent in obtaining important raw materials from actual or potential competitors, including the risk that applicable antitrust laws may be inadequate to mitigate Valvoline's exposure to these risks. Valvoline purchases substantially all of its lubricant additives from the following four suppliers: Afton Chemical Corporation, Chevron Oronite Company LLC, the Infineum group of companies and Lubrizol Corporation. Because the industry is characterized by a limited number of lubricant additives suppliers, there are a limited number of alternative suppliers with whom Valvoline could transact in the event of a disruption to its existing supply relationships; for example, due to disruptions to its suppliers' operations caused by natural disasters or severe weather conditions. The inability of Valvoline's suppliers to meet its supply demands could also have a material adverse effect on its business.. Also, domestic and global government regulations related to the manufacture or transport of certain raw materials may impede Valvoline's ability to obtain those raw materials on commercially reasonable terms. If Valvoline is unable to obtain and retain qualified suppliers under commercially acceptable terms, its ability to manufacture and deliver products in a timely, competitive and profitable manner or grow its business successfully could be adversely affected.. Valvoline may be unable to execute its growth strategy, and acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances and investments could result in operating difficulties, dilution and other harmful consequences that may adversely impact Valvoline's business and results of operations.. Acquisitions, particularly for Valvoline's VIOC business, and building strategic alliances for distribution and manufacturing, particularly in international markets, including through joint venture partnerships, product distribution and toll manufacturing arrangements, are important elements of its overall growth strategy. Valvoline expects to continue to evaluate and enter into discussions regarding a wide array of potential strategic transactions, and to continue to grow its VIOC business organically and through acquisitions. An inability to execute these plans could have a material adverse impact on Valvoline's financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business, or product may create unforeseen operating difficulties or expenditures. The areas where Valvoline faces risks include:. • the possible inability to fully execute plans to add stores to Valvoline's VIOC network, due to lack of desirable real estate sites, regulatory or municipal hurdles, a lack of viable acquisition targets, or other factors;. • diversion of management's time and attention from operating Valvoline's business to acquisition integration challenges;. • failure to successfully grow the acquired business or product lines;. • inability to implement adequate controls, procedures and policies at the acquired company;. • integration of the acquired company's accounting, human resources and other administrative systems, and coordination of product, engineering and sales and marketing functions;. • transition of operations, users and customers onto Valvoline's existing platforms;. • reliance on the expertise of Valvoline's strategic partners with respect to market development, sales, local regulatory compliance and other operational matters;. • failure to obtain required approvals on a timely basis, if at all, from governmental authorities, or conditions placed upon approval under competition and antitrust laws which could, among other things, delay or prevent Valvoline from completing a transaction, or otherwise restrict its ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition;. • in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address economic, currency, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries;. • cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into Valvoline's organization, and retention of employees from the companies that Valvoline acquires;. • liability for, or reputational harm from, activities of the acquired company before the acquisition or from Valvoline's strategic partners; and. • litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former security holders or other third parties.. Valvoline's failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with its past or future acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances could cause Valvoline to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances, incur unanticipated liabilities and harm Valvoline's business generally.. Valvoline's acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances could also result in dilutive issuances of its equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, impairment of goodwill or purchased long-lived assets and restructuring charges, any of which could harm its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Also, the anticipated benefits of Valvoline's acquisitions may not be realized. Valvoline's balance sheet includes goodwill primarily related to acquisitions and future acquisitions may result in Valvoline's recognition of additional goodwill. The impairment of a significant portion of this goodwill would negatively affect its financial results.. 15. Valvoline shares in ownership of joint ventures, which may limit its ability to manage third-party risks associated with these projects.. For financial or strategic reasons, Valvoline conducts a portion of its business through joint ventures. In these joint ventures, Valvoline shares influence over the operation of the joint venture and its assets. Therefore, joint ventures may involve risks such as the possibility that a co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt, be unable to meet its capital contribution obligations, have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with Valvoline's business interests or goals, or take actions that are contrary to Valvoline's direction or to applicable laws and regulations. In addition, joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without Valvoline's consent, or Valvoline may be unable to take action without the concurrence of its joint venture partners. Consequently, actions by the joint venture, co-venturer or other third-party could expose Valvoline to claims for damages, financial penalties and reputational harm, any of which could have an adverse effect on its business and operations. Although joint ventures may generate positive cash flow, in some cases they may be unable or unwilling to distribute that cash to the joint venture partners.. The business model for Valvoline's VIOC business, including its dependence on franchised oil change centers, presents a number of risks.. VIOC is made up of a nationwide network of both company-owned and franchised stores. Valvoline's success relies in part on the financial success and cooperation of its franchisees. However, Valvoline has limited influence over their operations. Valvoline's franchisees manage their businesses independently and are responsible for the day-to-day operations of approximately 66% of VIOC stores as of September 30, 2017. Valvoline's revenue and income growth from franchised stores are largely dependent on the ability of its franchisees to grow their sales. Valvoline's franchisees may have limited or no sales growth, and Valvoline's revenues and margins could be negatively affected as a result. In addition, if sales or business performance trends worsen for franchisees, their financial results may deteriorate, which could result in, among other things, VIOC store closures, delayed or reduced payments to Valvoline and reduced growth in the number of VIOC stores.. Valvoline's success also depends on the willingness and ability of its independent franchisees to implement major initiatives, which may require additional investment by them, and remain aligned with Valvoline on operating, promotional and capital-intensive reinvestment plans. The ability of Valvoline's franchisees to contribute to the achievement of Valvoline's overall plans is dependent in large part on the availability of funding to its franchisees at reasonable interest rates and may be negatively impacted by the financial markets in general or the creditworthiness of individual franchisees.. Valvoline's operating performance and reputation could also be negatively impacted if its independent franchisees experience service failures or otherwise operate in a manner that projects a brand image inconsistent with Valvoline's values, particularly if Valvoline's contractual and other rights and remedies are limited, costly to exercise or subject to litigation. If Valvoline's franchisees do not successfully operate VIOC stores in a manner consistent with Valvoline's standards, Valvoline's brand, image and reputation could be harmed, which in turn could negatively impact its business and operating results.. The ownership mix of company-owned and franchised VIOC stores also affects Valvoline's results and financial condition. The decision to own stores or to operate under franchise or license agreements is driven by a large number of factors with a complex and changing interrelationship. The size of Valvoline's largest franchisees creates additional risk due to Valvoline's dependence on their particular growth, financial and operating performance and cooperation and alignment with Valvoline's initiatives.. Valvoline is the primary supplier of products to all VIOC stores. The growth and performance of Valvoline's lubricants and other product lines depends in large part on the performance of its VIOC business, potentially amplifying the negative effect of the other risks related to the VIOC business model. Poor performance by VIOC stores would negatively impact revenues and income for other Valvoline reporting segments.. Adverse developments in the global economy or in regional economies and potential disruptions of financial markets could negatively impact Valvoline's customers and suppliers, and therefore have a negative impact on its results of operations.. A global or regional economic downturn may reduce customer demand or inhibit Valvoline's ability to produce and sell products. Valvoline's business and operating results are sensitive to global and regional economic downturns, credit market tightness, declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices, volatile exchange rates, changes in interest rates, sovereign debt defaults and other challenges, including those related to international sanctions and acts of aggression or threatened aggression that can affect the global economy. With 74% of Valvoline's sales coming from North America in fiscal 2017, Valvoline is particularly sensitive to the risk of an economic slowdown or downturn in that region. In the event of adverse developments or stagnation in the economy or financial markets, Valvoline's customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, reduced demand for their products, cash flow shortages and difficulty obtaining financing. As a result, existing or potential customers might delay or cancel plans to purchase products and may not be able to fulfill their obligations to Valvoline in a timely fashion. Further, suppliers may. 16. experience similar conditions, which could impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to Valvoline. A weakening or reversal of the global economy or a substantial part of it could negatively impact Valvoline's business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to grow.. Valvoline uses information technology systems to conduct business, and these systems are at risk from cyber security threats.. Despite steps Valvoline takes to mitigate or eliminate them, cyber-security threats to its systems are increasing and becoming more advanced and breaches could occur as a result of the activity of hackers, employee error or employee misconduct. A breach of Valvoline's information technology systems could lead to the loss and destruction of trade secrets, confidential information, proprietary data, intellectual property, customer and supplier data and employee personal information, and could disrupt business operations which could adversely affect Valvoline's relationships with business partners and harm its brands, reputation and financial results. Valvoline's customer data may include names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses and payment account information, among other information. Depending on the nature of the customer data that is compromised, Valvoline may also have obligations to notify users, law enforcement or payment companies about the incident and may need to provide some form of remedy, such as refunds for the individuals affected by the incident.. Valvoline may fail to adequately protect its intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties.. Valvoline relies heavily upon its trademarks, domain names and logos to market its brands and to build and maintain brand loyalty and recognition, as well as upon trade secrets. Valvoline also relies on a combination of laws and contractual restrictions with employees, customers, suppliers, affiliates and others, to establish and protect its various intellectual property rights. For example, Valvoline has generally registered and continues to register and renew, or secure by contract where appropriate, trademarks and service marks as they are developed and used, and reserve, register and renew domain names as appropriate. Effective trademark protection may not be available or may not be sought in every country in which Valvoline's products are made available and contractual disputes may affect the use of marks governed by private contract. Similarly, not every variation of a domain name may be available or be registered, even if available.. Valvoline generally seeks to apply for patents or for other similar statutory protections as and if it deems appropriate, based on then-current facts and circumstances, and will continue to do so in the future. No assurances can be given that any patent application Valvoline has filed or will file will result in a patent being issued, or that any existing or future patents will afford adequate or meaningful protection against competitors or against similar technologies. In addition, no assurances can be given that third parties will not create new products or methods that achieve similar results without infringing upon patents Valvoline owns.. Despite these measures, Valvoline's intellectual property rights may still not be protected in a meaningful manner, challenges to contractual rights could arise or third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use Valvoline's intellectual property without authorization. The occurrence of any of these events could result in the erosion of Valvoline's brands and limit its ability to market its brands using its various trademarks, as well as impede its ability to effectively compete against competitors with similar products and services, any of which could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations.. From time to time, Valvoline has been subject to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement of trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights held by third parties. In the future, third parties may sue Valvoline for alleged infringement of their proprietary or intellectual property rights. Valvoline may not be aware of whether its products do or will infringe existing or future patents or the intellectual property rights of others. In addition, litigation may be necessary to enforce Valvoline's intellectual property rights, protect its trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Any litigation of this nature, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could adversely affect Valvoline's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Valvoline's pension and other postretirement benefit plan obligations are currently underfunded, and Valvoline may have to make significant cash payments to some or all of these plans, which would reduce the cash available for its businesses.. In connection with Valvoline's separation from Ashland, Valvoline assumed certain of Ashland's historical pension and other postretirement benefit plans and related liabilities. The funded status of Valvoline's pension plans is dependent upon many factors, including returns on invested assets, the level of certain market interest rates and the discount rate used to determine pension obligations. Though Valvoline has taken a number of actions in fiscal 2017 to reduce the risk and volatility associated with the most significant of these plans, the U.S. qualified plan, changing market conditions or laws and regulations could require material increases in our expected cash contributions to our pension plans in future years. Specifically, unfavorable returns on plan assets or unfavorable changes in applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of required plan funding, which would reduce the cash available for Valvoline's businesses. In addition, a decrease in the discount rate used to determine pension obligations could result in an increase in the valuation of pension obligations, which could affect the reported funded status of Valvoline's pension plans and future contributions. Similarly, an increase in discount rates could increase the periodic pension cost in subsequent fiscal years. Valvoline's policy to recognize changes in the fair value of the pension assets and liabilities annually and. 17. as otherwise required through mark to market accounting could result in volatility in Valvoline's results of operations, which could be material. In addition, Valvoline's pension and other postretirement benefit plan obligations are currently underfunded, and Valvoline may have to make significant cash payments to some or all of these plans, which would reduce the cash available for its businesses.. Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (\"PBGC\") has the authority to terminate an underfunded tax-qualified pension plan under limited circumstances. In the event Valvoline's tax-qualified pension plans are terminated by the PBGC, Valvoline could be liable to the PBGC for some portion of the underfunded amount.. Business disruptions from natural, operational and other catastrophic risks could seriously harm Valvoline's operations and financial performance. In addition, a catastrophic event at one of Valvoline's facilities or involving its products or employees could lead to liabilities that could further impair its operations and financial performance.. Business disruptions, including those related to operating hazards inherent in the production of lubricants, natural disasters, severe weather conditions, supply or logistics disruptions, increasing costs for energy, temporary plant and/or power outages, information technology systems and network disruptions, cyber-security breaches, terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, war, pandemic diseases, fires, floods or other catastrophic events, could seriously harm Valvoline's operations, as well as the operations of Valvoline's customers and suppliers, and may adversely impact Valvoline's financial performance. Although it is impossible to predict the occurrence or consequences of any such events, they could result in reduced demand for Valvoline's products, make it difficult or impossible for Valvoline to manufacture its products or deliver products and services to its customers or to receive raw materials from suppliers, may lead to increased costs of raw materials, or create delays and inefficiencies in the supply chain. In addition to leading to a serious disruption of Valvoline's businesses, a catastrophic event at one of Valvoline's facilities or involving its products or employees could lead to substantial legal liability to or claims by parties allegedly harmed by the event.. While Valvoline maintains business continuity plans that are intended to allow it to continue operations or mitigate the effects of events that could disrupt its business, Valvoline cannot provide assurances that its plans would fully protect it from all such events. In addition, insurance maintained by Valvoline to protect against property damage, loss of business and other related consequences resulting from catastrophic events is subject to coverage limitations, depending on the nature of the risk insured. This insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of Valvoline's damages or damages to others in the event of a catastrophe. In addition, insurance related to these types of risks may not be available now or, if available, may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable rates.. Valvoline has incurred, and will continue to incur, costs as a result of environmental, health and safety (\"EHS\"), and hazardous substances liabilities and related compliance requirements. These costs could adversely impact Valvoline's cash flow, its results of operations or financial condition.. Valvoline is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, protection of the environment and human health and safety, as well as the generation, storage, handling, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. Valvoline has incurred, and will continue to incur, costs and capital expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations.. EHS regulations change frequently, and such regulations and their enforcement have tended to become more stringent over time. Accordingly, changes in EHS laws and regulations and the enforcement of such laws and regulations could interrupt Valvoline's operations, require modifications to its facilities or cause it to incur significant liabilities, costs or losses that could adversely affect its profitability. Actual or alleged violations of EHS laws and regulations could result in restrictions or prohibitions on plant operations as well as substantial damages, penalties, fines, civil or criminal sanctions and remediation costs.. Valvoline's business involves the production, storage and transportation of hazardous substances. Under some environmental laws, Valvoline may be strictly liable and/or jointly and severally liable for environmental damages caused by releases of hazardous substances and waste materials into the environment. For instance, under relevant laws and regulations Valvoline may be deemed liable for soil and/or groundwater contamination at sites it currently owns and/or operates even though the contamination was caused by a third party such as a former owner or operator, and at sites it formerly owned and operated if the release of hazardous substances or waste materials was caused by it or by a third party during the period it owned and/or operated the site. Valvoline also may be deemed liable for soil and/or groundwater contamination at sites to which it sent hazardous wastes for treatment or disposal, notwithstanding that the original treatment or disposal activity accorded with all applicable regulatory requirements.. Valvoline is responsible for, and has financial exposure to, liabilities from pending and threatened claims which could adversely impact its results of operations and cash flow.. There are various claims, lawsuits and administrative proceedings pending or threatened against Valvoline. Such actions are with respect to commercial matters, false advertising, product liability, toxic tort liability and other matters that seek remedies or damages, some of which are for substantial amounts. While these actions are being contested, their outcome is not predictable. Valvoline's results could be adversely affected by financial exposure to these liabilities. Further, as a potential successor to Ashland, Valvoline. 18. may be subject to a consent order dated January 5, 1998 with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission arising out of charges that ads for Valvoline's TM8 Engine Treatment product contained claims that were unsubstantiated. Under the consent order, which expires January 5, 2018, Valvoline may not make unsubstantiated claims about the performance or attributes of any engine treatment in the future or misrepresent results of tests or studies used to support Valvoline's claims. Valvoline has agreed to indemnify Ashland for any liability arising out of the consent order. Valvoline could also be subject to additional legal proceedings in the future that may adversely affect its business, including administrative proceedings, class actions, employment and personal injury claims, disputes with current or former suppliers, claims by current or former franchisees and intellectual property claims.. Insurance maintained by Valvoline to protect against claims for damages alleged by third parties is subject to coverage limitations, depending on the nature of the risk insured. This insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of Valvoline's liabilities to others. In addition, insurance related to these types of risks may not be available now or, if available, may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable rates.. Valvoline's substantial indebtedness may adversely affect its business, results of operations and financial condition.. Valvoline has substantial indebtedness and financial obligations. As of November 10, 2017, Valvoline had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $1.1 billion. In addition, Valvoline has a senior secured revolving credit facility with a borrowing capacity of $436 million. While Valvoline does not currently have any borrowings outstanding under the senior secured revolving credit facility, it may incur indebtedness under this arrangement in the future.. Valvoline may incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. Valvoline's substantial indebtedness could adversely affect its business, results of operations and financial condition by, among other things:. • requiring Valvoline to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on its debt, which would reduce the availability of its cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, execution of its growth strategy and other general corporate purposes;. • limiting Valvoline's ability to borrow additional amounts to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of its growth strategy and other purposes;. • making Valvoline more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and regulatory conditions and in its business by limiting its flexibility in planning for, and making it more difficult for it to react quickly to, changing conditions;. • placing Valvoline at a competitive disadvantage compared with its competitors that have less debt and lower debt service requirements;. • making Valvoline more vulnerable to increases in interest rates since some of its indebtedness is subject to variable rates of interest; and. • making it more difficult for Valvoline to satisfy its financial obligations.. In addition, Valvoline may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from its operations to repay its indebtedness when it becomes due and to meet its other cash needs. If Valvoline is not able to pay its debts as they become due, it could be in default under the terms of its indebtedness. Valvoline might also be required to pursue one or more alternative strategies to repay indebtedness, such as selling assets, refinancing or restructuring its indebtedness or selling additional debt or equity securities. Valvoline may not be able to refinance its debt or sell additional debt or equity securities or its assets on favorable terms, if at all, and if it must sell its assets, it may negatively affect Valvoline's ability to generate revenues.. If Valvoline is unable to access the capital markets or obtain bank credit, its financial position, growth plans, liquidity and results of operations could be negatively impacted.. Valvoline is dependent on a stable, liquid, and well-functioning financial system to fund its operations and capital investments. In particular, Valvoline may rely on the public and private debt and equity markets to fund portions of its capital investments and the commercial paper market and bank credit facilities to fund seasonal needs for working capital. Valvoline's access to these markets depends on multiple factors including the condition of the capital markets, Valvoline's operating performance and credit ratings. If rating agencies lower Valvoline's credit ratings, it could adversely impact Valvoline's ability to access the debt markets, its cost of funds and other terms for new debt issuances. Each of the credit rating agencies reviews its rating periodically, and there is no guarantee Valvoline's current credit rating will remain the same.. Valvoline is subject to payment-related risks for company-owned and franchised VIOC stores.. At company-owned and franchised VIOC stores, Valvoline accepts a variety of payment methods, including credit cards and debit cards. Accordingly, Valvoline is, and will continue to be, subject to significant and evolving regulations and compliance requirements, including obligations to implement enhanced authentication processes that could result in increased costs, reduce the ease of use of certain payment methods and expand liability for Valvoline. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit. 19. cards, Valvoline pays interchange and other fees, which may increase over time. Valvoline relies on independent service providers for payment processing, including credit and debit cards. If these independent service providers become unwilling or unable to provide these services to Valvoline, or if the cost of using these providers increases, Valvoline's business could be harmed. Valvoline is also subject to payment card association operating rules, including data security rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for Valvoline to comply. If Valvoline fails to comply with these rules or requirements, or if its data security systems are breached or compromised, Valvoline may be liable for losses incurred by card issuing banks or consumers, subject to fines and higher transaction fees, lose its ability to accept credit and debit card payments from its customers or process electronic fund transfers or facilitate other types of payments and its brand, business and results of operations could be significantly harmed.. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of Sarbanes- Oxley could have a material adverse effect on Valvoline's business and stock price.. As a public company, Valvoline is subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (\"Sarbanes-Oxley\"), which, beginning with this Annual Report on Form 10-K, requires annual assessments by Valvoline's management of the effectiveness of Valvoline's internal control over financial reporting and annual reports by Valvoline's independent registered public accounting firm that address the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. During the course of annual testing, Valvoline may identify deficiencies or material weaknesses which it may not be able to remediate in time to meet its deadline for compliance with Section 404. Testing and maintaining internal control can divert management's attention from other matters that are important to the operation of Valvoline's business. Valvoline may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that it has effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 or Valvoline's independent registered public accounting firm may not be able or willing to issue an unqualified report on the effectiveness of Valvoline's internal control over financial reporting. If Valvoline concludes that its internal control over financial reporting is not effective in any annual assessment, Valvoline cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of its evaluation, testing and remedial actions or their effect on its operations. If either Valvoline is unable to conclude that it has effective internal control over financial reporting or its independent auditors are unable to provide it with an unqualified report as required by Section 404 in any annual assessment, then investors could lose confidence in Valvoline's reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of Valvoline's stock.. Risks Related to Valvoline's Separation from Ashland. The Distribution could result in significant tax liability to Ashland, and in certain circumstances, Valvoline could be required to indemnify Ashland for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the Tax Matters Agreement.. Ashland obtained a written opinion of counsel to the effect that the Distribution should qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). The opinion of counsel does not address any U.S. state or local or foreign tax consequences of the Distribution. The opinion assumes that the Distribution is completed according to the terms of the Separation Agreement entered into between Ashland and Valvoline (\"Separation Agreement\") and relies on the facts as described in the Separation Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement, other ancillary agreements, the information statement distributed to Ashland's shareholders in connection with the Distribution and a number of other documents. In addition, the opinion is based on certain representations as to factual matters from, and certain covenants by, Ashland and Valvoline. The opinion cannot be relied on if any of the assumptions, representations or covenants is incorrect, incomplete or inaccurate or is violated in any material respect.. The opinion of counsel is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") or the courts, and thus there can be no assurance that the IRS or a court will not take a contrary position. Ashland has not requested, and does not intend to request, a ruling from the IRS regarding the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the Distribution.. If the Distribution were determined not to qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss, then Ashland would recognize a gain as if it had sold its Valvoline common stock in a taxable transaction in an amount up to the fair market value of the common stock it distributed in the Distribution. In addition, certain reorganization transactions undertaken in connection with the separation and the Distribution could be determined to be taxable, which could result in additional taxable gain. Under certain circumstances set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement, Valvoline could have a substantial indemnification obligation to Ashland with respect to the tax associated with some or all of such gain, which could have a material adverse impact on Valvoline's financial condition.. Valvoline could have an indemnification obligation to Ashland if events or actions subsequent to the Distribution cause the Distribution to be taxable.. If, due to breaches of covenants that Valvoline has agreed to in connection with the Separation Agreement or the Distribution, it were determined that the Distribution did not qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss, Valvoline could be required to indemnify Ashland for the resulting taxes (and reasonable expenses). In addition, Section 355(e) of the Code generally creates a presumption that the Distribution would be taxable to Ashland, but not to its shareholders, if Valvoline or its shareholders were to engage in transactions that result in a 50% or greater change (by vote or value) in the ownership of Valvoline's stock during the four-year period beginning on the date that begins two years before the date of the Distribution, unless it were established that such. 20. transactions and the Distribution were not part of a plan or series of related transactions. If the Distribution were taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes to Ashland due to a breach of Valvoline's covenants or a 50% or greater change in the ownership of Valvoline's stock during the aforementioned four-year period, Ashland would recognize gain as if it had sold Valvoline common stock in a taxable transaction in an amount up to the fair market value of the stock held by it immediately before the Distribution, and Valvoline generally would be required to indemnify Ashland for the tax on such gain and related expenses, as well as any additional gain in connection with certain reorganization transactions undertaken to effect the separation and the Distribution. Any such obligation could have a material impact on Valvoline's operations.. Valvoline has agreed to numerous restrictions to preserve the tax-free nature of the Distribution, which may reduce its strategic and operating flexibility.. Valvoline has agreed in the Tax Matters Agreement to covenants and indemnification obligations designed to preserve the tax-free nature of the Distribution. These covenants and indemnification obligations may limit Valvoline's ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new businesses or other transactions that might be beneficial and could discourage or delay a strategic transaction that its shareholders may consider favorable.. Valvoline will have joint and several liability with Ashland for the consolidated U.S. federal income taxes of the Ashland consolidated group for the taxable periods in which Valvoline was part of the Ashland consolidated group. In addition, Valvoline has agreed to indemnify Ashland for certain pre-IPO U.S. taxes that arise on audit and are directly attributable to neither the Valvoline business nor Ashland's specialty ingredients and performance materials businesses (collectively, the \"Chemicals business\").. Valvoline and Ashland as well as their respective subsidiaries were part of U.S. federal consolidated group tax returns and certain combined or similar group tax returns (together, \"Combined Tax Returns\") through the date of the Distribution. Therefore, Valvoline has joint and several liability with Ashland to the respective taxing authorities for the Combined Tax Returns for the periods up to and including the date of the Distribution.. Pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement, Valvoline is required to indemnify Ashland for: (a) certain U.S. federal, state or local taxes of Ashland and/or its subsidiaries for any tax period ending on or prior to the Distribution that arise on audit or examination and are (i) directly attributable to Valvoline or (ii) prior to the IPO that arise on audit or examination and are directly attributable to neither the Valvoline business nor the Chemicals business; and (b) certain foreign taxes of Ashland and/or its subsidiaries for any tax period ending on or prior to the Distribution that arise on audit or examination and are directly attributable to Valvoline.. The Tax Matters Agreement also requires Valvoline to indemnify Ashland for any taxes (and reasonable expenses) resulting from the failure of the Distribution to qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss or certain reorganization transactions related to the separation or the IPO and Distribution to qualify for their intended tax treatment (\"Transaction Taxes\"), where the taxes result from (1) breaches of representations or covenants that Valvoline made or agreed to in connection with these transactions, (2) the application of certain provisions of U.S. federal income tax law to the Distribution with respect to acquisitions of Valvoline common stock or (3) any other actions that Valvoline knows or reasonably should expect would give rise to such taxes.. The Tax Matters Agreement also requires Valvoline to indemnify Ashland for a portion of certain other taxes arising from the separation allocated to Valvoline generally based on Valvoline's market capitalization relative to the market capitalization of Ashland at the time of the Distribution.. Valvoline has only been a stand-alone public company since September 2016, and its financial results are not necessarily representative of the results it would have achieved as a stand-alone public company prior to September 2016 and may not be a reliable indicator of its future results.. The historical financial information Valvoline has included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include certain expenses of Ashland that were allocated to Valvoline as an unincorporated business unit of Ashland for corporate functions, which included treasury, legal, accounting, insurance, information technology, payroll administration, human resources, stock incentive plans and other services. Valvoline believes the assumptions underlying the consolidated financial statements, including the assumptions regarding allocated expenses, reasonably reflect the utilization of services provided to or the benefit received during those periods. However, these shared expenses may not represent what Valvoline's financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been had it operated autonomously or independently from Ashland during those periods. Actual costs that would have been incurred if Valvoline had been a stand-alone company would depend on multiple factors, including organizational structure and strategic decisions in various areas, such as information technology and infrastructure.. In addition, the historical financial information Valvoline has included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K does not reflect what its financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been had it been a stand-alone entity during the historical periods presented, or what its financial position, results of operations or cash flows will be in the future as an independent entity.. 21. Valvoline's ability to operate its business effectively may suffer if it is unable to cost-effectively establish its own administrative and other support functions in order to operate as a stand-alone company after the expiration of its shared services and other intercompany agreements with Ashland.. As a business segment of Ashland, Valvoline relied on administrative and other resources of Ashland, including information technology, accounting, finance, human resources and legal, to operate Valvoline's business. In connection with the IPO, Valvoline entered into various service agreements to retain the ability for specified periods to use these Ashland resources. These services may not be provided at the same level as when Valvoline was a business segment within Ashland, and Valvoline may not be able to obtain the same benefits that it received prior to the IPO. These services may not be sufficient to meet Valvoline's needs, and after Valvoline's agreements with Ashland expire (which will generally occur within 24 months following the closing of the IPO), Valvoline may not be able to replace these services at all or obtain these services at prices and on terms as favorable as it currently has with Ashland. Valvoline will need to continue to create its own administrative and other support systems or contract with third parties to replace Ashland's systems. In addition, Valvoline has received informal support from Ashland which may not be addressed in the agreements it has entered into with Ashland, and the level of this informal support has not been available after the Distribution.. Ashland has agreed to indemnify Valvoline for certain liabilities. However, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure Valvoline against the full amount of such liabilities, or that Ashland's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future.. Pursuant to the Separation Agreement and certain other agreements with Ashland, Ashland has agreed to indemnify Valvoline for certain liabilities. However, third parties could also seek to hold Valvoline responsible for any of the liabilities that Ashland has agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from Ashland will be sufficient to protect Valvoline against the full amount of such liabilities, or that Ashland will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. Even if Valvoline ultimately succeeded in recovering from Ashland any amounts for which Valvoline is held liable, Valvoline may be temporarily required to bear these losses. Each of these risks could negatively affect Valvoline's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Valvoline's inability to resolve favorably any disputes that arise between Valvoline and Ashland with respect to their past and ongoing relationships may adversely affect its operating results.. Disputes may arise between Ashland and Valvoline in a number of areas relating to their past and ongoing relationships, including:. • labor, tax, employee benefit, indemnification and other matters arising from Valvoline's separation from Ashland;. • employee retention and recruiting;. • business combinations involving Valvoline; and. • the nature, quality and pricing of services that Valvoline and Ashland have agreed to provide each other.. Valvoline may not be able to resolve potential conflicts, and even if it does, the resolution may not be favorable. The agreements Valvoline entered into with Ashland may be amended upon agreement between the parties.. Valvoline may have received better terms from unaffiliated third parties than the terms it received in the agreements it entered into with Ashland.. The agreements Valvoline entered into with Ashland in connection with the separation, including the Separation Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement, the Employee Matters Agreement, the Transition Services Agreement, the Reverse Transition Services Agreement, a shared environmental liabilities agreement and certain commercial agreements, were prepared in the context of the separation while Valvoline was still a wholly owned subsidiary of Ashland. Accordingly, during the period in which the terms of those agreements were prepared, Valvoline did not have an independent board of directors or a management team that was independent of Ashland. As a result, Valvoline may have received better terms from negotiations between unaffiliated third parties than the terms of those agreements."
