[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business, financial condition and operating results can be affected by a number of factors, whether currently known or unknown, including but not limited to those described below, any one or more of which could, directly or indirectly, cause our actual operating results and financial condition to vary materially from past, or anticipated future, operating results and financial condition. Any of these factors, in whole or in part, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and the price of our common stock.. The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this annual report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part I, Item 1, Financial Statements and Part I, Item 2, Management's, Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.. Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting our financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods.. Risks related to our business and industry. We are dependent on the commercial success of HETLIOZ® and Fanapt®.. Our future success is currently substantially dependent upon the commercial success of HETLIOZ® for the treatment of Non-24-Hour Sleep-Wake Disorder (Non-24) and Fanapt® for the treatment of schizophrenia.. In January 2014, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved our New Drug Application (NDA) for HETLIOZ® for the treatment of Non-24 and in April 2014, we commenced the U.S. commercial launch of HETLIOZ®. In July 2015, the European Commission (EC) granted centralized marketing authorization with unified labeling for HETLIOZ® for the treatment of Non-24 in totally blind adults, and in August 2016 we commenced the commercial launch of HETLIOZ® in Germany. This authorization is valid in the 28 countries that are members of the European Union (E.U.), as well as European Economic Area members Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway.. 17. Table of Contents. In the first quarter of 2015, we acquired the U.S. commercial rights to Fanapt®, and began selling, marketing and distributing Fanapt® in the U.S.. Our ability to generate significant product revenue from sales of HETLIOZ® and Fanapt®, both in the U.S. and abroad, in the near term will depend on, among other things, our ability to:. <U+0095>   defend our patents and intellectual property from generic competition;. <U+0095>   maintain commercial manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers;. <U+0095>   produce, through a validated process, sufficiently large quantities of inventory of our products to meet demand;. <U+0095>   continue to maintain and grow a wide variety of internal sales, distribution and marketing capabilities sufficient to sustain growth in sales of our products;. <U+0095>   gain broad acceptance of our products from physicians, health care payors, patients, pharmacists and the medical community;. <U+0095>   properly price and obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement of these products by governmental authorities, private health insurers, managed care organizations and other third-party payors;. <U+0095>   maintain compliance with ongoing labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, recordkeeping, safety and other post-market requirements;. <U+0095>   obtain regulatory approval to expand the labeling of our approved products for additional indications;. <U+0095>   obtain regulatory approval for HETLIOZ® or Fanapt® in additional countries;. <U+0095>   adequately protect against and effectively respond to any claims by holders of patents and other intellectual property rights that our products infringe their rights; and. <U+0095>   adequately protect against and effectively respond to any unanticipated adverse effects or unfavorable publicity that develops in respect to our products, as well as the emergence of new or existing competitive products, which may be proven to be more clinically effective and cost-effective.. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses and to utilize a substantial portion of our cash resources as we continue the commercialization of HETLIOZ® and Fanapt®, evaluate foreign market opportunities for HETLIOZ® and Fanapt® and continue to grow our operational capabilities, both domestically and abroad. This activity represents a significant investment in the commercial success of HETLIOZ® and Fanapt®, which is uncertain.. If our continued commercial efforts are not successful with respect to HETLIOZ® and Fanapt® in the U.S., Europe or other jurisdictions in which these products may be approved for sale, our ability to generate increased product sales revenue may be jeopardized and, consequently, our business may be seriously harmed.. The cost of growing and maintaining a sales, marketing and distribution organization may exceed its cost effectiveness. If we fail to continue to develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, if sales efforts are not effective or if costs of developing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities exceed their cost effectiveness, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Growth of HETLIOZ® and Fanapt® may be slow or limited for a variety of reasons including competing products or unanticipated safety issues. If either HETLIOZ® or Fanapt® is not successful in gaining broad commercial acceptance, our business would be harmed.. Any increase in sales of HETLIOZ® and Fanapt® will be dependent on several factors, including our ability to educate physicians and to increase physician awareness of the benefits and cost-effectiveness of our products relative to competing products. The degree of further market acceptance of any of our products or market acceptance of approved product candidates among physicians, patients, health care payors and the medical community will depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to:. <U+0095>   acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy;. <U+0095>   relative convenience and ease of administration;. <U+0095>   the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects;. <U+0095>   availability of alternative treatments; and. <U+0095>   pricing and cost effectiveness.. 18. Table of Contents. In addition, HETLIOZ® and Fanapt® are subject to continual review by the FDA, and we cannot assure that newly discovered or reported safety issues will not arise. With the use of any newly marketed drug by a wider patient population, serious adverse events may occur from time to time that initially do not appear to relate to the drug itself. Any safety issues could cause us to suspend or cease marketing of our approved products, cause us to modify how we market our approved products, subject us to substantial liabilities and adversely affect our revenues and financial condition. In the event of a withdrawal of either HETLIOZ® or Fanapt® from the market, our revenues would decline significantly and our business would be seriously harmed.. We may enter into third party collaborations from time to time in order to commercialize our products. If we are unable to identify or enter into an agreement with any material third-party collaborator, if our collaborations with any such third-party are not commercially successful or if our agreement with any such third-party is terminated or allowed to expire, we could be adversely affected financially or our business reputation could be harmed.. Our business strategy includes entering into collaborations with corporate collaborators for the commercialization of HETLIOZ®, Fanapt® and our other products. Areas in which we may potentially enter into third-party collaboration arrangements include joint sales and marketing arrangements for sales and marketing in certain E.U. countries and elsewhere outside of the U.S., and future product development arrangements. If we are unable to identify or enter into an agreement with any material third-party collaborator, this could result in an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Any arrangements we do enter into may not be scientifically or commercially successful. The termination of any of these arrangements might adversely affect our ability to develop, commercialize and market our products.. The success of our collaboration arrangements will depend heavily on the efforts and activities of our collaborators. Our collaborators will have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations. We expect that the risks which we face in connection with these future collaborations will include the following:. <U+0095>   our collaboration agreements are expected to be for fixed terms and subject to termination under various circumstances, including, in many cases, on short notice without cause;. <U+0095>   our collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products and services that are similar to or competitive with our products which are the subject of their collaboration with us; and. <U+0095>   our collaborators may change the focus of their commercialization efforts.. In recent years there have been a significant number of mergers and consolidations in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, some of which have resulted in the participant companies reevaluating and shifting the focus of their business following the completion of these transactions. The ability of our products to reach their potential could be limited if any of our future collaborators decreases or fails to increase spending relating to such products.. Collaborations with pharmaceutical companies and other third-parties often are terminated or allowed to expire by the other party. With respect to our future collaborations, any such termination or expiration could adversely affect us financially as well as harm our business reputation.. Even after we or our partners obtain regulatory approvals of a product, acceptance of the product in the marketplace is uncertain and failure to achieve commercial acceptance will prevent or delay our ability to generate significant revenue from such product.. Even after obtaining regulatory approvals for the sale of our products, the commercial success of these products will depend, among other things, on their acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and other members of the medical community as therapeutic and cost-effective alternatives to competing products and treatments. The degree of market acceptance of any product will depend on a number of factors, including the demonstration of its safety and efficacy, its cost-effectiveness, its potential advantages over other therapies, the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors with respect to such product, our ability to attract and maintain corporate partners, including pharmaceutical companies, to assist in commercializing our products, receipt of regulatory clearance of marketing claims for the uses that we or our partners are developing and the effectiveness of our and our partners' marketing and distribution capabilities. If our approved products fail to gain market acceptance or do not become widely accepted by physicians, patients, third-party payors and other members of the medical community, it is unlikely that we will ever become profitable on a sustained basis or achieve significant revenues.. 19. Table of Contents. We rely and will continue to rely on outsourcing arrangements for many of our activities, including clinical development and supply of HETLIOZ®, Fanapt® and our other products.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 273 full-time employees, including our sales team. We rely on outsourcing arrangements for a significant portion of our activities, including distribution, clinical research and development, data collection and analysis and manufacturing, as well as for certain functions as a public company. We have limited control over these third parties and we cannot guarantee that they will perform their obligations in an effective and timely manner.. Disruptions to our HETLIOZ® or Fanapt® supply chains could materially affect our level of success in commercializing HETLIOZ® or Fanapt®, thereby reducing our future earnings and prospects.. A loss or disruption with any one of our manufacturers or suppliers could disrupt the supply of HETLIOZ® or Fanapt®, possibly for a significant time period, and we may not have sufficient inventories to maintain supply before the manufacturer or supplier could be replaced or the disruption is resolved. In addition, marketed drugs and their contract manufacturing organizations are subject to continual review, including review and approval of their manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing processes, which can result in delays in the regulatory approval process and/or commercialization. Introducing a replacement or backup manufacturer or supplier for HETLIOZ® or Fanapt® requires a lengthy regulatory and commercial process and there can be no guarantee that we could obtain necessary regulatory approvals in a timely fashion or at all. In addition, it is difficult to identify and select qualified suppliers and manufacturers with the necessary technical capabilities, and establishing new supply and manufacturing sources involves a lengthy and technical engineering process.. Failure to comply with government regulations regarding the sale and marketing of our products could harm our business.. Pharmaceutical companies are subject to extensive government regulation and oversight by government authorities in countries in which they do business. As a result, we may become subject to governmental actions which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, certain of which are described below.. Pharmaceutical Pricing and Reimbursement. In U.S. markets, our ability and that of our partners to commercialize our products successfully, and to attract commercialization partners for our products, depends in significant part on the availability of adequate financial coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, including, in the U.S., governmental payors such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs, managed care organizations, and private health insurers.. We participate in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program for both HETLIOZ® and Fanapt®. Under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, we are required to pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for our covered outpatient drugs that are dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state Medicaid program as a condition of having our drugs eligible for coverage under Medicaid and Medicare Part B. Those rebates are based on pricing data that are reported by us on a monthly and quarterly basis to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS). Federal law requires that any company that participates in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program also participate in the Public Health Service's 340B drug pricing discount program (340B program), in order for the manufacturer's drugs to be eligible for coverage under Medicaid and Medicare Part B. The 340B program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340B \"ceiling price\" for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs. The ceiling price can represent a significant discount and is based on the pricing data reporting to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program.. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 (together, PPACA) expanded the 340B program to include additional entity types: certain free-standing cancer hospitals, critical access hospitals, rural referral centers and sole community hospitals, each as defined by PPACA. PPACA exempts drugs designated under section 526 of the FDC Act as \"orphan drugs\" from the ceiling price requirements for these newly-eligible entities.. PPACA also obligates the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) to create regulations and processes to improve the integrity of the 340B program and to update the agreement that manufacturers must sign to participate in the 340B program. HRSA issued a final regulation in January of 2017 regarding the calculation of the 340B ceiling price and the imposition of civil monetary penalties on manufacturers that knowingly and intentionally overcharge covered entities, although that regulation has been withdrawn and is not currently applicable. The withdrawn final regulation regarding the 340B program included a requirement that a manufacturer calculate the 340B ceiling price on a quarterly basis, the requirement that a manufacturer charge $0.01 per unit of measure if the 340B ceiling price calculation results in a ceiling price that equals zero (penny pricing), the methodology manufacturers must use when estimating the ceiling price for a new covered outpatient drug, an explanation of how a civil monetary penalty (CMP) would be imposed on a manufacturer that knowingly and intentionally overcharges a covered entity; and an explanation of what would constitute an instance of overcharging to trigger a CMP. HRSA recently issued a proposed regulation regarding an administrative. 20. Table of Contents. dispute resolution process for the 340B program. Any final regulations and guidance could affect our obligations under the 340B program in ways we cannot anticipate. In addition, legislation may be introduced that, if passed, would further expand the 340B program to additional covered entities or otherwise expand the 340B program.. Federal law also requires that for a drug manufacturer's products to be eligible for coverage under the Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs and to be purchased by certain federal agencies and grantees, the manufacturer must participate in the Department of Veterans Affairs Federal Supply Schedule (FSS), pricing program, established by Section 603 of the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992. Manufacturers that participate in the FSS pricing program must list their covered (innovator and authorized generic) drugs on an FSS contract and charge no more than Federal Ceiling Price (FCP), to the Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense, Public Health Service, and Coast Guard when those agencies purchase from the FSS contract or a depot contract. FCP is calculated based on non-federal average manufacturer price data, which manufacturers must submit quarterly and annually. In addition, because our products are available in the retail and specialty pharmacy setting, we are required to provide rebates to the Department of Defense for prescriptions dispensed to Tricare beneficiaries from Tricare retail network pharmacies under the Tricare Retail Refund Program. To the extent we choose to participate in these government healthcare programs for our current and future products, these and other requirements may affect our ability to profitably sell any product for which we obtain marketing approval.. Pricing and rebate calculations vary among products and programs. The calculations are complex and will often be subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. If we become aware that our reporting of pricing data for a prior quarter was incorrect, we will be obligated to resubmit the corrected data. For the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, corrected data must be submitted for a period not to exceed 12 quarters from the quarter in which the data originally were due. Such restatements and recalculations increase our costs for complying with the laws and regulations governing the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and other governmental pricing programs.. We may be liable for errors associated with our submission of pricing data. If we are found to have knowingly submitted false pricing data to the Medicaid program or the FSS pricing program, we may be liable for civil monetary penalties in the amount of up to $100,000 per item of false information. Our failure to submit pricing data to the Medicaid program or the FSS pricing program on a timely basis could result in a civil monetary penalty of $10,000 per day for each day the information is late. Such failure also could be grounds for CMS to terminate our Medicaid drug rebate agreement, which is the agreement under which we would participate in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. In the event that CMS terminates our rebate agreement, our products may no longer be eligible for coverage under Medicaid or Medicare Part B. There can be no assurance that our submissions will not be found to be incomplete or incorrect.. Third-party payors decide which drugs they will cover and establish reimbursement and co-pay levels. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services and examining their cost effectiveness, in addition to their safety and efficacy. We may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the cost effectiveness of our products. Even with such studies, any of our products that are commercialized may be considered less cost-effective than other products, and third-party payors may not provide coverage and reimbursement, in whole or in part, for our products.. Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry in the U.S. to fundamental changes. There have been, and we expect there will continue to be, legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system and reimbursement systems in ways that could impact our ability and that of our partners to profitably sell commercialized products.. Payors also are increasingly considering new metrics as the basis for reimbursement rates. It is difficult to project the impact of these evolving reimbursement mechanics on the willingness of payors to cover any of our commercialized products.. In addition, we anticipate that a significant portion of our or our partners' revenue from sales of commercialized products will be obtained through government payors, including Medicare and Medicaid. Any failure to obtain eligibility for coverage under those programs for products we are able to commercialize would have a material adverse effect on revenues and royalties from sales of such products.. 21. Table of Contents. Interactions with Healthcare Providers. Physicians and other healthcare providers often play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of pharmaceutical products. Manufacturers of branded prescription drugs are subject to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which manufacturers market, sell and distribute the products for which they obtain marketing approval. Some of the laws and regulations that may affect our ability to operate are described below.. Anti-Kickback Laws. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward the purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease, or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. The term \"remuneration\" has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, and the government can establish a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute without proving that a person or entity had actual knowledge of the law or specific intent to violate it. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers, patients, and formulary managers on the other. There are a number of statutory exceptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution or other regulatory sanctions, however, the exceptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly. Failure to meet all of the requirements of a particular statutory exception or regulatory safe harbor does not make the conduct per se illegal under the Anti-Kickback Statute, but the legality of the arrangement will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis based on the totality of the facts and circumstances. A number of states also have anti-kickback laws that establish similar prohibitions that may apply to items or services reimbursed by government programs, as well as any third-party payors, including commercial payors. Violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute are punishable by imprisonment, criminal fines, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from the participation in federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid.. Prescription Drug Marketing Act. As part of the sales and marketing process, pharmaceutical companies frequently provide healthcare providers with samples of approved drugs. The Prescription Drug Marketing Act (PDMA) imposes requirements and limitations upon the distribution of drugs and drug samples, and prohibits states from licensing distributors of prescription drugs unless the state licensing program meets certain federal guidelines that include minimum standards for storage and handling, as well as record keeping and other requirements. Violations of the PDMA may result in criminal and civil penalties. In addition, the PPACA imposes annual reporting requirements related to sample distribution.. False Claims Act. The federal civil False Claims Act prohibits, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented false or fraudulent claims for payment of government funds and knowingly making, or causing to be made or used, a false record or statement to get a false claim paid. Certain marketing practices may implicate the federal civil False Claims Act, including promotion of pharmaceutical products for unapproved uses, providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customer would bill federal programs for the product, or inflating prices reported to private price publication services used to set drug reimbursement rates under federal healthcare programs. In addition, PPACA amended the Social Security Act to provide that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false claim for purposes of the False Claims Act. Actions under the False Claims Act may be brought by the government or as a qui tam action by a private individual in the name of the government. False Claims Act liability is potentially significant in the healthcare industry because the statute provides for treble damages and mandatory penalties of $5,500 to $11,000 per false claim or statement, which increased to a range of $10,957 to $21,916 in February 2017. Violations of the False Claims Act are also punishable by exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Pharmaceutical and other life sciences companies often resolve allegations without admissions of liability for significant and sometimes material amounts to avoid the uncertainty of treble damages and per claim penalties that may awarded in litigation proceedings. They may be required, however, to enter into corporate integrity agreements with the government, which may impose substantial costs on companies to ensure compliance.. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act. The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), includes federal criminal statutory provisions that prohibit among other actions, knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private third-party payors, knowingly and willfully embezzling or stealing from a healthcare benefit program, willfully obstructing a criminal investigation of a healthcare offense, and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services.. 22. Table of Contents. HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH) and their implementing regulations, impose certain requirements and restrictions on certain types of individuals and entities relating to the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information. Among other things, HITECH makes HIPAA's security standards directly applicable not only to covered entities (e.g. health care providers and health plans), but also to business associates, i.e., independent contractors or agents of covered entities that receive or obtain protected health information in connection with providing a service for or on behalf of a covered entity. HITECH also created four new tiers of civil monetary penalties, amended HIPAA to make civil and criminal penalties directly applicable to business associates, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorneys' fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions.. Physician Payment Sunshine Act. The federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program to report annually (with certain exceptions) to CMS, information related to payments or other \"transfers of value\" made to physicians and teaching hospitals, and requires applicable manufacturers and group purchasing organizations to report annually to CMS ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members and payments or other ''transfers of value'' to such physician owners. Failure to report relevant data may result in civil fines and/or penalties.. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), prohibits U.S. corporations and their representatives and intermediaries from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. The scope of the FCPA includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. Other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations.. Analogous State and Foreign Laws. Many states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal laws described above, including state anti-kickback and false claims laws. In addition to requiring reporting transfers of value, some states have imposed price reporting requirements, and an increasing number of countries worldwide have either adopted or are considering similar laws requiring disclosure of various interactions with healthcare professionals. These state laws apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. In addition, a number of states require pharmaceutical companies to report expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products and to report gifts and payments to individual physicians in the states. Other states restrict when pharmaceutical companies may provide meals to prescribers or engage in other marketing related activities, or require pharmaceutical companies to implement compliance programs or marketing codes of conduct. Compliance with these laws requires significant resources and companies that do not comply may face civil penalties or other consequences.. Outside the U.S., we are subject to similar regulations in those countries where we market and sell products, including with respect to transparency, bribery and other laws mentioned above. In some foreign countries, including major markets in the E.U. and Japan, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take nine to twelve months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product to other available therapies. Our business could be materially harmed if reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels.. Additionally, drug prices are under significant scrutiny, and along with other health care costs, continue to be subject to intense political and societal pressures, which we anticipate will continue and escalate, including on a global basis. As a result, our business and reputation may be harmed, our stock price may be adversely impacted and experience periods of volatility, and our results of operations may be adversely impacted.. Other Laws and Regulations. There are evolving legal requirements and other statutory and regulatory regimes that will continue to affect our business.. Efforts to ensure that business activities and business arrangements comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations can be costly for manufacturers of branded prescription products. If a manufacturer's operations, including activities conducted by its sales or marketing teams, are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that apply to the company, the company may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative sanctions, including imprisonment, monetary penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of operations.. 23. Table of Contents. We intend to seek regulatory approvals for our products in additional foreign jurisdictions, but we may not obtain any such approvals.. We intend to market our products, alone or with others, in foreign jurisdictions. In order to market our products in foreign jurisdictions, we or our partners may be required to obtain separate regulatory approvals and to comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and jurisdictions and can involve additional trials, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Additionally, the foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. For all of these reasons, we or our partners may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA. We or our partners may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. The failure to obtain these approvals could harm our business materially.. We rely on a limited number of specialty pharmacies for distribution of HETLIOZ® in the U.S., and the loss of one or more of these specialty pharmacies or their failure to distribute HETLIOZ® effectively would materially harm our business.. HETLIOZ® is only available for distribution through a limited number of specialty pharmacies in the U.S. A specialty pharmacy is a pharmacy that specializes in the dispensing of medications for complex or chronic conditions, which often require a high level of patient education and ongoing management. The use of specialty pharmacies involves certain risks, including, but not limited to, risks that these specialty pharmacies will:. <U+0095>   not provide us accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, the number of patients who are using HETLIOZ® or complaints about HETLIOZ®;. <U+0095>   reduce their efforts or discontinue to sell or support or otherwise not effectively sell or support HETLIOZ®;. <U+0095>   not devote the resources necessary to sell HETLIOZ® in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect;. <U+0095>   be unable to satisfy financial obligations to us or others; or. <U+0095>   cease operations.. In addition, if one or more of our specialty pharmacies do not fulfill their contractual obligations to us, or refuse or fail to adequately serve patients, or their agreements are terminated without adequate notice, shipments of HETLIOZ®, and associated revenues, would be adversely affected. We expect that it would take a significant amount of time if we were required to replace one or more of our specialty pharmacies.. Our revenues from Fanapt® are substantially dependent on sales through a limited number of wholesalers, and such revenues may fluctuate from quarter to quarter.. We sell Fanapt® primarily through a limited number of pharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S. The use of pharmaceutical wholesalers involves certain risks, including, but not limited to, risks that these pharmaceutical wholesalers will:. <U+0095>   not provide us accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, demand from wholesaler customers buying Fanapt® or complaints about Fanapt®;. <U+0095>   reduce their efforts or discontinue to sell or support or otherwise not effectively sell or support Fanapt®;. <U+0095>   not devote the resources necessary to sell Fanapt® in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect;. <U+0095>   be unable to satisfy financial obligations to us or others; or. <U+0095>   cease operations.. Additionally, our reliance on a small number of wholesalers could cause revenues to fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the buying patterns of these wholesalers. In addition, if any of these wholesalers fails to pay on a timely basis or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. 24. Table of Contents. We face substantial competition, which may result in others developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do.. Our future success will depend on our or our partners' ability to demonstrate and maintain a competitive advantage with respect to our products and our ability to identify and develop additional products. Large, fully integrated pharmaceutical companies, either alone or together with collaborative partners, have substantially greater financial resources and have significantly greater experience than we do in:. <U+0095>   developing products;. <U+0095>   undertaking pre-clinical testing and clinical trials;. <U+0095>   obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products; and. <U+0095>   manufacturing, marketing and selling products.. These companies may invest heavily and quickly to discover and develop novel products that could make our products obsolete. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA or foreign regulatory approval or commercializing superior products or other competing products before we do. Technological developments or the FDA or foreign regulatory approval of new therapeutic indications for existing products may make our products obsolete or may make them more difficult to market successfully, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our products, if successfully developed and approved for commercial sale, will compete with a number of drugs and therapies currently manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical and other biotechnology companies. Our products may also compete with new products currently under development by others or with products which may cost less than our products. Physicians, patients, third party payors and the medical community may not accept or utilize any of our products that may be approved. If HETLIOZ®, Fanapt® and our other products, if and when approved, do not achieve significant market acceptance, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. We believe the primary competitors for HETLIOZ® and Fanapt® are as follows:. <U+0095>   For HETLIOZ® in the treatment of Non-24, there are no FDA approved direct competitors. Sedative-Hypnotic treatments for certain sleep related disorders include, Ambien® (zolpidem) by Sanofi (including Ambien CR®), Lunesta® (eszopiclone) by Sunovion Pharmaceuticals Inc., Sonata® (zaleplon) by Pfizer Inc., Rozerem® (ramelteon) by Takeda Pharmaceuticals Company Limited, Silenor® (doxepin) by Pernix Therapeutics, Belsomra® (suvorexant) by Merck & Co., Inc., generic products such as zolpidem, trazodone and doxepin, and over-the-counter remedies such as Benadryl® and Tylenol PM®. The class of melatonin agonists includes Rozerem® (ramelteon) by Takeda Pharmaceuticals Company Limited, Valdoxan® (agomelatine) by Servier, Circadin® (long-acting melatonin) by Neurim Pharmaceuticals Ltd. and the food supplement melatonin. Shift work and excessive sleepiness disorder treatments include Nuvigil® (armodafinil) and Provigil® (modafinil) both by Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.. <U+0095>   For Fanapt® in the treatment of schizophrenia, the atypical antipsychotics competitors are Risperdal® (risperidone), including the depot formulation Risperdal Consta® and Invega® (paliperidone), including the depot formulation Invega® Sustenna®, each by Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Zyprexa® (olanzapine), including the depot formulation Zyprexa® Relprevv<U+0099>, each by Eli Lilly and Company, Seroquel® and Seroquel XR® (quetiapine) by AstraZeneca PLC, Abilify® (aripiprazole) by Otsuka America Pharmaceutical Inc., Abilify Maintena® (the depot formulation of Abilify®) by Lundbeck/Otsuka America Pharmaceutical Inc., Geodon® (ziprasidone) by Pfizer Inc., Saphris® (asenapine) by Allergan plc, Latuda® (lurasidone) by Sunovion Pharmaceuticals Inc., Rexulti® (brexpiprazole) by Lundbeck/Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc., Aristada<U+0099> (aripiprazole lauroxil) extended-release injectible suspension by Alkermes, Inc., Vraylar<U+0099> (cariprazine) by Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., and generic clozapine, as well as the typical antipsychotics haloperidol, chlorpromazine, thioridazine, and sulpiride (all of which are generic).. Additionally, we may face competition from newly developed generic products. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act newly approved drugs and indications may benefit from a statutory period of non-patent marketing exclusivity. The Hatch-Waxman Act seeks to stimulate competition by providing incentives to generic pharmaceutical manufacturers to introduce non-infringing forms of patented pharmaceutical products and to challenge patents on branded pharmaceutical products. If we are unsuccessful at challenging an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA), filed pursuant to the Hatch-Waxman Act, cheaper generic versions of our products, which may be favored by insurers and third-party payors, may be launched commercially, which would significantly harm our business.. 25. Table of Contents. FDA and foreign regulatory approval of our products is uncertain.. The research, testing, manufacturing and marketing of products such as those that we have developed or that we or our partners are developing are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local government authorities, including the FDA, as well as foreign regulatory authorities in jurisdictions in which we seek approval. To obtain regulatory approval of such products, we or our partners must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the applicable regulatory agency that, among other things, the product is safe and effective for its intended use. In addition, we or our partners must show that the manufacturing facilities used to produce such products are in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices regulations (cGMP).. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals and clearances can take many years and will require us and our partners, as applicable, to expend substantial time and capital. Despite the time and expense expended, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. The number of pre-clinical and clinical trials that will be required for FDA or foreign regulatory approval varies depending on the product, the disease or condition that the product is in development for, and the requirements applicable to that particular product. The FDA or applicable foreign regulatory agency can delay, limit or deny approval of a product for many reasons, including that:. <U+0095>   a product may not be shown to be safe or effective;. <U+0095>   the FDA or foreign agency may interpret data from pre-clinical and clinical trials in different ways than we or our partners do;. <U+0095>   the FDA or foreign agency may not approve our or our partners' manufacturing processes or facilities;. <U+0095>   a product may not be approved for all the indications we or our partners request;. <U+0095>   the FDA or foreign agency may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations;. <U+0095>   the FDA or foreign agency may not meet, or may extend, the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA-V) date or its foreign equivalent with respect to a particular NDA or foreign application; and. <U+0095>   the FDA or foreign agency may not agree with our or our partners' regulatory approval strategies or components of the regulatory filings, such as clinical trial designs.. For example, if certain of our or our partners' methods for analyzing trial data are not accepted by the FDA or the applicable foreign agency, we or our partners may fail to obtain regulatory approval for our products.. Any delay or failure to obtain regulatory approvals for our products will result in increased costs, could diminish competitive advantages that we may attain and would adversely affect the marketing and sale of our products. Other than HETLIOZ® in the U.S. and the 31 countries in Europe covered by the centralized marketing authorization by the EC, and Fanapt® in the U.S., Mexico and Israel, we have not received, and may never receive, regulatory approval to market any of our products in any jurisdiction.. Even following regulatory approval of our products, the FDA or the applicable foreign agency may impose limitations on the indicated uses for which such products may be marketed, subsequently withdraw approval or take other actions against us, our partners or such products that are adverse to our business. The FDA and foreign agencies generally approve drugs for particular indications. An approval for a more limited indication reduces the size of the potential market for the product. Product approvals, once granted, may be withdrawn or modified if problems occur after initial marketing.. We and our partners also are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations and recommendations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices, the environment and the use and disposal of hazardous substances used in connection with discovery, research and development work. In addition, we cannot predict the extent to which new governmental regulations might significantly impede the discovery, development, production and marketing of our products. We or our partners may be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future laws or regulations, and we may be adversely affected by the cost of such compliance or the inability to comply with such laws or regulations.. If our products are determined to be unsafe or ineffective in humans, whether commercially or in clinical trials, our business will be materially harmed.. Despite the FDA's approval of the NDA for HETLIOZ® in January 2014 and the NDA for Fanapt® in May 2009, the EC's grant of the centralized marketing authorization for HETLIOZ® in July 2015, and the positive results of our completed trials for HETLIOZ® and Fanapt®, we are uncertain whether either of these products will ultimately prove to be effective and safe in humans long term and in all uses. Frequently, products that have shown promising results in clinical trials have suffered significant setbacks in later clinical trials or even after they are approved for commercial sale. Future uses of our products, whether in clinical trials or commercially, may reveal that the product is ineffective, unacceptably toxic, has other undesirable side effects, is difficult to manufacture on a large scale, is uneconomical, infringes on proprietary rights of another party or is otherwise not fit for further use. If our products are determined to be unsafe or ineffective in humans, our business will be materially harmed.. 26. Table of Contents. Clinical trials for our products are expensive and their outcomes are uncertain. Any failure or delay in completing clinical trials for our products could severely harm our business.. Pre-clinical studies and clinical trials required to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products are time-consuming and expensive and together take several years to complete. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our products, we or our partners must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical trials that such product is safe and effective for use in humans. We have incurred, and we will continue to incur, substantial expense for, and devote a significant amount of time to, preclinical testing and clinical trials.. Historically, the results from preclinical testing and early clinical trials often have not predicted results of later clinical trials. A number of new drugs have shown promising results in clinical trials, but subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Clinical trials conducted by us, by our partners or by third parties on our or our partners' behalf may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for our products. Regulatory authorities may not permit us or our partners to undertake any additional clinical trials for our products, may force us to stop any ongoing clinical trials and it may be difficult to design efficacy studies for our products in new indications.. Clinical development efforts performed by us or our partners may not be successfully completed, or completed in a timely manner. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more. The length of time can vary substantially with the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the products and the size of the prospective patient population. Our ability to enroll patients in, and the commencement and rate of completion of, clinical trials for our products may be affected by many factors, including:. <U+0095>   the size and nature of the patient population;. <U+0095>   the design of the trial protocol for our clinical trials;. <U+0095>   the eligibility and exclusion criteria for the trial in question;. <U+0095>   the availability of competing therapies and competing clinical trials, and physician and patient perception of our product candidates and our other product candidates being studied in relation to these other potential options;. <U+0095>   the availability of raw materials and the possibility of raw materials expiring prior to their use;. <U+0095>   difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data;. <U+0095>   poor effectiveness of our products during clinical trials;. <U+0095>   unforeseen safety issues or side effects;. <U+0095>   the number and location of clinical sites in our clinical trials;. <U+0095>   the proximity and availability of clinical trial sites for prospective patients;. <U+0095>   the availability of time and resources at the institutions where clinical trials are and will be conducted;. <U+0095>   the availability of adequate financing to fund ongoing clinical trial expenses;. <U+0095>   the study endpoints that rely on subjective patient reported outcomes; and. <U+0095>   governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements and guidelines.. If we or our partners fail to complete successfully, or have difficulty enrolling a sufficient number of patients for, our clinical trials, we or they may not receive the regulatory approvals needed to market that product. Any such failure or difficulty could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our products may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay, prevent or result in the revocation of their regulatory approval or limit their marketability.. Undesirable side effects caused by our products could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications, and in turn prevent us or our partners from commercializing or continuing the commercialization of such products and generating revenues from their sale. We will continue to assess the side effect profile of our products in ongoing clinical development programs. However, we cannot predict whether the commercial use of our approved products (or our products in development, if and when they are approved for commercial use) will produce undesirable or unintended side effects that have not been evident in the use of, or in clinical trials conducted for, such products to date. Additionally, incidents of product misuse may occur. These events, among others, could result in product recalls, product liability actions or withdrawals or additional regulatory controls, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 27. Table of Contents. In addition, if after receiving marketing approval of a product, we, our partners or others identify undesirable side effects caused by such product, we or our partners could face one or more of the following:. <U+0095>   regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as a \"black box\" warning or a contraindication;. <U+0095>   regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product;. <U+0095>   we or our partners may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product; and. <U+0095>   our, our partner's or the product's reputation may suffer.. Any of these events could prevent us or our partners from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the product, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from its sale.. We have a history of operating losses, anticipate future losses and may never become profitable on a sustained basis.. We have been engaged in identifying and developing products since March 2003, which has required, and will continue to require, significant research and development expenditures. The continued commercialization of HETLIOZ® and Fanapt® will require substantial additional expenditures.. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $361.4 million and we cannot estimate with precision the extent of our future losses. In April 2014, we commercially launched HETLIOZ® in the U.S. for the treatment of Non-24 and in August 2016 we commercially launched HETLIOZ® in Germany for the treatment of Non-24 in totally blind adults. We are currently evaluating the commercial opportunity for HETLIOZ® in the rest of Europe. In December 2014, we acquired all rights to Fanapt® from Novartis. The continued commercialization of HETLIOZ® and Fanapt® will require substantial additional expenditures. Novartis launched Fanapt® in the U.S. in the first quarter of 2010 and we began selling Fanapt® on our own in the first quarter of 2015. We may not succeed in gaining additional market acceptance of Fanapt® in the U.S. and we may not succeed in commercializing HETLIOZ® or Fanapt® outside of the U.S. We may not be profitable even if our products are successfully commercialized. We may be unable to fully develop, obtain regulatory approval for, commercialize, manufacture, market, sell and derive revenue from our products in the timeframes we project, if at all, and our inability to do so would materially and adversely impact the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital and continue operations.. There can be no assurance that we will achieve sustained profitability. Our ability to achieve sustained profitability in the future depends, in part, upon:. <U+0095>   our ability to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our products, particularly HETLIOZ® for the treatment of Non-24, both in the U.S. and in foreign countries;. <U+0095>   our level of success in commercializing HETLIOZ® in the U.S., Europe and other jurisdictions in which HETLIOZ® may receive regulatory approval, if any;. <U+0095>   our level of success in raising awareness regarding Non-24 in the medical and patient communities;. <U+0095>   our level of success in marketing and selling Fanapt® in the U.S. and our or our partners' level of success in marketing and selling Fanapt® in Israel and other jurisdictions in which we may receive regulatory approval, if any;. <U+0095>   our ability to enter into and maintain agreements to develop and commercialize our products;. <U+0095>   our and our partners' ability to develop, have manufactured and market our products;. <U+0095>   our and our partners' ability to obtain adequate reimbursement coverage for our products from insurance companies, government programs and other third party payors; and. <U+0095>   our ability to obtain additional research and development funding from collaborative partners or funding for our products.. In addition, the amount we spend will impact our profitability. Our spending will depend, in part, upon:. <U+0095>   the costs of our marketing or awareness campaigns;. <U+0095>   the progress of our research and development programs for our products, including clinical trials;. 28. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   the time and expense that will be required to pursue FDA and/or foreign regulatory approvals for our products and whether such approvals are obtained on a timely basis, if at all;. <U+0095>   the time and expense required to prosecute, enforce and/or challenge patent and other intellectual property rights;. <U+0095>   the cost of third party manufacturers;. <U+0095>   the number of additional products we pursue;. <U+0095>   how competing technological and market developments affect our products;. <U+0095>   the cost of possible acquisitions of technologies, products, product rights or companies;. <U+0095>   the cost of obtaining licenses to use technology owned by others for proprietary products and otherwise;. <U+0095>   the costs and effects of potential litigation; and. <U+0095>   the costs associated with recruiting and compensating a highly skilled workforce in an environment where competition for such employees may be intense.. We may not achieve all or any of these goals and, thus, we cannot provide assurances that we will ever be profitable on a sustained basis or achieve significant revenues. Even if we do achieve some or all of these goals, we may not achieve significant or sustained commercial success.. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be limited as a result of transactions involving our common stock.. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (IRC), a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses (NOLs) and certain other tax assets (tax attributes) to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders increases by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders' lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (generally three years). Transactions involving our common stock, even those outside our control, such as purchases or sales by investors, within the testing period could result in an ownership change. A limitation on our ability to utilize some or all of our NOLs or credits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Ownership changes occurred in the years ending December 31, 2014 and 2008. We believe that the ownership changes in 2014 and 2008 will not impact our ability to utilize NOL and credit carryforwards; however, future ownership changes may cause our existing tax attributes to have additional limitations.. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our research and development activities and commercialization efforts, we may be unable to continue operations or we may be forced to share our rights to commercialize our products with third parties on terms that may not be attractive to us.. Our activities will necessitate significant uses of working capital throughout 2018 and beyond. It is uncertain whether our existing funds will be sufficient to meet our operating needs. As of December 31, 2017, our total cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities were $143.4 million. Our long term capital requirements are expected to depend on many factors, including, among others:. <U+0095>   our level of success in commercializing HETLIOZ® and Fanapt® globally;. <U+0095>   outcomes of ongoing and potential patent litigation;. <U+0095>   costs of developing and maintaining sales, marketing and distribution channels and our ability to sell our products;. <U+0095>   market acceptance of our products;. <U+0095>   costs involved in establishing manufacturing capabilities for commercial quantities of our products;. <U+0095>   the number of potential formulations and products in development;. <U+0095>   progress with pre-clinical studies and clinical trials;. <U+0095>   time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory (including FDA) approval;. <U+0095>   costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent, trademark and other intellectual property claims;. <U+0095>   competing technological and market developments;. <U+0095>   costs for recruiting and retaining employees and consultants;. 29. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   costs for training physicians; and. <U+0095>   legal, accounting, insurance and other professional and business related costs.. As a result, we may need to raise additional capital to fund our anticipated operating expenses and execute on our business plans. In our capital-raising efforts, we may seek to sell debt securities or additional equity securities, obtain a bank credit facility, or enter into partnerships or other collaboration agreements. The sale of additional equity or debt securities, if convertible, could result in dilution to our stockholders and may also result in a lower price for our common stock. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed obligations and could also result in covenants that could restrict our operations. However, we may not be able to raise additional funds on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to secure sufficient capital to fund our planned activities, we may not be able to continue operations, or we may have to enter into partnerships or other collaboration agreements that could require us to share commercial rights to our products to a greater extent or at earlier stages in the drug development process than is currently intended. These partnerships or collaborations, if consummated prior to proof-of-efficacy or safety of a given product, could impair our ability to realize value from that product. If additional financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our operations and planned growth, develop or enhance our technologies or products, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive market pressures, any of which would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If our contract research organizations do not successfully carry out their duties or if we lose our relationships with contract research organizations, our drug development efforts could be delayed.. Our arrangements with contract research organizations are critical to our success in bringing our products to the market and promoting such marketed products profitably. We are dependent on contract research organizations, third-party vendors and investigators for pre-clinical testing and clinical trials related to our drug discovery and development efforts and we will likely continue to depend on them to assist in our future discovery and development efforts. These parties are not our employees and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. As such, they may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. The parties with which we contract for execution of our clinical trials play a significant role in the conduct of the trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. If they fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug development programs or if their performance is substandard, it will delay the development, approval and commercialization of our products. Moreover, these parties may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If they assist our competitors, it could harm our competitive position.. Our contract research organizations could merge with or be acquired by other companies or experience financial or other setbacks unrelated to our collaboration that could, nevertheless, materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If we lose our relationship with any one or more of these parties, we could experience a significant delay in both identifying another comparable provider and then contracting for its services. We may be unable to retain an alternative provider on reasonable terms, if at all. Even if we locate an alternative provider, it is likely that this provider may need additional time to respond to our needs and may not provide the same type or level of service as the original provider. In addition, any provider that we retain will be subject to current Good Laboratory Practices, and similar foreign standards and we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by these providers. Consequently, if these practices and standards are not adhered to by these providers, the development and commercialization of our products could be delayed.. We rely on a limited number of third party manufacturers to formulate and manufacture our products and our business will be seriously harmed if these manufacturers are not able to satisfy our demand and alternative sources are not available.. Our expertise is primarily in the research and development and pre-clinical and clinical trial phases of product development. We do not have an in-house manufacturing capability and depend completely on a small number of third-party manufacturers and active pharmaceutical ingredient formulators for the manufacture of our products. Therefore, we are dependent on third parties for our formulation development and manufacturing of our products. This may expose us to the risk of not being able to directly oversee the production and quality of the manufacturing process and provide ample commercial supplies to successfully launch and maintain the marketing of our products. Furthermore, these third party contractors, whether foreign or domestic, may experience regulatory compliance difficulty, mechanical shut downs, employee strikes, or other unforeseeable events that may delay or limit production. Our inability to adequately establish, supervise and conduct (either ourselves or through third parties) all aspects of the formulation and manufacturing processes would have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop and commercialize our products.. We have agreements in place with Patheon Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Patheon Inc. (collectively, Patheon), subsidiaries of Thermo Fisher Scientific, for the manufacture of HETLIOZ® and Fanapt®.. 30. Table of Contents. In January 2014, we entered into a manufacturing agreement with Patheon for the manufacture of commercial supplies of HETLIOZ® 20 mg capsules at Patheon's Cincinnati, Ohio manufacturing site. In May 2016, we entered into a manufacturing agreement with Patheon for the manufacture of commercial supplies of Fanapt® capsules tablets at Patheon's Mississauga, Ontario, Canada manufacturing site. We do not have exclusive long-term agreements with any other third party manufacturers of our products. If our current manufacturers, or any other third party manufacturer, is unable or unwilling to perform its obligations under our manufacturing agreements for any reason, we may not be able to locate alternative acceptable manufacturers or formulators or enter into favorable agreements with them. Any inability to acquire sufficient quantities of our products in a timely manner from these third parties could adversely affect sales of our products, delay clinical trials and prevent us from developing our products in a cost-effective manner or on a timely basis. In addition, manufacturers of our products are subject to cGMP and similar foreign standards and we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by our manufacturers. If one of our contract manufacturers fails to maintain compliance, the production of our products could be interrupted, resulting in delays and additional costs. In addition, if the facilities of such manufacturers do not pass a pre-approval or post-approval plant inspection, the FDA will not grant approval and may institute restrictions on the marketing or sale of our products.. Our manufacturing strategy presents the following additional risks:. <U+0095>   because most of our third-party manufacturers and formulators are located outside of the U.S., there may be difficulties in importing our products or their components into the U.S. as a result of, among other things, FDA import inspections, incomplete or inaccurate import documentation or defective packaging; and. <U+0095>   because of the complex nature of our products, our manufacturers may not be able to successfully manufacture our products in a cost-effective and/or timely manner.. Materials necessary to manufacture our products may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which may delay the development, regulatory approval and commercialization of our products.. We and our partners rely on manufacturers to purchase from third-party suppliers the materials necessary to produce our products for clinical trials and commercialization. Suppliers may not sell these materials to such manufacturers at the times we or our partners need them or on commercially reasonable terms. We do not have any control over the process or timing of the acquisition of these materials by these manufacturers. Moreover, we currently do not have any agreements for the commercial production of these materials. If the manufacturers are unable to obtain these materials for our or our partners' clinical trials, product testing, potential regulatory approval of our products and commercial scale manufacturing could be delayed, significantly affecting our and our partners' ability to further develop and commercialize our products. If we, our manufacturers or our partners, as applicable, are unable to purchase these materials for our products, there would be a shortage in supply or the commercial launch of such products would be delayed, which would materially and adversely affect our or our partners' ability to generate revenues from the sale of such products.. If we cannot identify, or enter into licensing arrangements for, new products, our ability to develop a diverse product portfolio will be limited.. A component of our business strategy is acquiring rights to develop and commercialize products discovered or developed by other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for which we may find effective uses and markets through our unique pharmacogenetics and pharmacogenomics expertise for the treatment of central nervous system disorders. Competition for the acquisition of these products is intense. If we are not able to identify opportunities to acquire rights to commercialize additional products, we may not be able to develop a diverse portfolio of products and our business may be harmed. Additionally, it may take substantial human and financial resources to secure commercial rights to promising products. Moreover, if other firms develop pharmacogenetics and pharmacogenomics capabilities, we may face increased competition in identifying and acquiring additional products.. We may not be successful in the development of products for our own account.. In addition to our business strategy of acquiring rights to develop and commercialize products, we may develop products for our own account by applying our technologies to off-patent drugs as well as developing our own proprietary molecules. Because we will be funding the development of such programs, there is a risk that we may not be able to continue to fund all such programs to completion or to provide the support necessary to perform the clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals or market any approved products. We expect the development of products for our own account to consume substantial resources. If we are able to develop commercial products on our own, the risks associated with these programs may be greater than those associated with our programs with collaborative partners.. 31. Table of Contents. If we lose key scientists or management personnel, or if we fail to recruit additional highly skilled personnel, it will impair our ability to identify, develop and commercialize products.. We are highly dependent on principal members of our management team and scientific staff, including our Chief Executive Officer, Mihael H. Polymeropoulos, M.D. These executives each have significant pharmaceutical industry experience. The loss of any such executives, including Dr. Polymeropoulos, or any other principal member of our management team or scientific staff, would impair our ability to identify, develop and market new products. Our management and other employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of the services of these or other key personnel, or the inability to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, could result in delays to development or approval, loss of sales and diversion of management resources. In addition, we depend on our ability to attract and retain other highly skilled personnel, including research scientists. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and the process of hiring and integrating such qualified personnel is often lengthy. We may be unable to recruit such personnel on a timely basis, if at all, which would negatively impact our development and commercialization programs.. Additionally, we do not currently maintain \"key person\" life insurance on the lives of our executives or any of our employees. This lack of insurance means that we may not have adequate compensation for the loss of the services of these individuals.. Product liability lawsuits could divert our resources, result in substantial liabilities and reduce the commercial potential of our products.. The risk that we may be sued on product liability claims is inherent in the development and sale of pharmaceutical products. For example, we face a risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our products in clinical trials and will face even greater risks upon commercialization by us or our partners of our products. We believe that we may be at a greater risk of product liability claims relative to other pharmaceutical companies because our products are intended to treat central nervous system disorders, and it is possible that we may be held liable for the behavior and actions of patients who use our products. These lawsuits may divert our management from pursuing our business strategy and may be costly to defend. In addition, if we are held liable in any of these lawsuits, we may incur substantial liabilities and we or our partners may be forced to limit or forego further commercialization of one or more of our products. Although we maintain product liability insurance, our aggregate coverage limit under this insurance is $30.0 million, and while we believe this amount of insurance is sufficient to cover our product liability exposure, these limits may not be high enough to fully cover potential liabilities. As our development activities and commercialization efforts progress and we and our partners sell our products, this coverage may be inadequate, we may be unable to obtain adequate coverage at an acceptable cost or we may be unable to get adequate coverage at all or our insurer may disclaim coverage as to a future claim. This could prevent the commercialization or limit the commercial potential of our products. Even if we are able to maintain insurance that we believe is adequate, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected by a product liability claim. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of products liability litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Product liability litigation and other related proceedings may also require significant management time.. E.U. Member States tend to impose strict price controls, which may delay or prevent the further commercial launch or impede the commercial success of HETLIOZ® in Europe and adversely affect our future results of operations.. In the E.U., prescription drug pricing and reimbursement are subject to governmental control and reimbursement mechanisms used by private and public health insurers in the E.U. vary by Member State. For the public systems, reimbursement is determined by guidelines established by the legislature or responsible national authority. As elsewhere, inclusion in reimbursement catalogues focuses on the medical usefulness, need, quality and economic benefits to patients and the health care system. Acceptance for reimbursement comes with cost, use and often volume restrictions, which can vary by Member State. Although we have received marketing authorization for HETLIOZ® from the EC, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities may take a considerable amount of time in those Member States that impose price controls. For example, we launched HETLIOZ® commercially in Germany in August 2016, and concluded our pricing negotiations with German authorities in October 2017. In addition, to obtain reimbursement or pricing approval for HETLIOZ® in some Member States, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of HETLIOZ®, to other available therapies.. Some Member States require approval of the sale price of a drug before it can be marketed. In many countries, the pricing review period begins after marketing or product licensing approval is granted. In some Member States, prescription pharmaceutical pricing remains subject to continuing governmental control even after initial approval is granted. As a result, we may be subject to lengthy price regulations that delay or prevent the commercial launch of HETLIOZ® in a particular Member State and negatively impact the revenues that are generated from the sale of HETLIOZ® in that country. If reimbursement of HETLIOZ® is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing for HETLIOZ® is set at unsatisfactory levels or takes too long to establish, or if there is competition from lower priced cross-border sales, our results of operations will be negatively affected.. 32. Table of Contents. We may not be able to effectively market and sell our future products, if approved, in the U.S.. We plan to continue to build our sales and marketing capabilities in the U.S. to commercialize future products, if approved. Our current sales and marketing capabilities in the U.S. may not be adequate to support the commercialization of future products and we would expect to build such capabilities by investing significant amounts of financial and management resources. Furthermore, the cost of establishing and maintaining marketing and sales capabilities may not be justifiable in light of the revenues generated by any future products.. If we are unable to establish and maintain adequate sales and marketing capabilities for future products or are unable to do so in a timely manner, we may not be able to generate product revenues from these products which may prevent us from reaching or maintaining profitability.. Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system in the U.S. may affect our ability to sell our products profitably.. PPACA substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. PPACA contains a number of provisions that are expected to impact our business and operations, in some cases in ways we cannot currently predict. Changes that may affect our business if we or our partners commercialize our products in the future include those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes, rules regarding prescription drug benefits under the health insurance exchanges, and fraud and abuse and enforcement. In addition, continued implementation of PPACA may result in the expansion of new programs such as Medicare payment for performance initiatives, and may impact existing government healthcare programs, such as by improving the physician quality reporting system and feedback program.. Additional provisions of PPACA may negatively affect our revenues from products that we or our partners commercialize in the future. For example, as part of PPACA's provisions closing a coverage gap that currently exists in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program, manufacturers of branded prescription drugs are required to provide a 50% discount on branded prescription drugs dispensed to beneficiaries within this coverage gap. Medicare Part D is a prescription drug benefit available to all Medicare beneficiaries. It is a voluntary benefit that is implemented through private plans under contractual arrangements with the federal government. Similar to pharmaceutical coverage through private health insurance, Part D plans negotiate discounts from drug manufacturers and pass on some of those savings to Medicare beneficiaries. PPACA also makes changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, discussed in more detail below, including increasing the minimum rebate from 15.1% to 23.1% of the average manufacturer price for most innovator products. On February 1, 2016, CMS, the federal agency that administers the Medicare and Medicaid programs, issued final regulations to implement the changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program under PPACA. These regulations became effective on April 1, 2016.. Many of PPACA's most significant reforms did not take effect until 2014 or thereafter, and the resulting new programs and requirements will continue to evolve in the next few years. Some states have chosen not to expand their Medicaid programs by raising the income limit to 133% of the federal poverty level. In part because not all states have expanded their Medicaid programs, it is unclear whether there will be more uninsured patients than anticipated when Congress passed PPACA. For each state that has opted not to expand its Medicaid program, there will be fewer insured patients overall. An increase in the proportion of uninsured patients who are prescribed products resulting from our proprietary or partnered programs could impact the future sales of any products that are commercialized in the future and our business and results of operations.. Further, in September 2007, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 was enacted giving the FDA enhanced post-marketing authority including the authority to require post-marketing studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information and compliance with Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) approved by the FDA. The FDA's exercise of this authority could result in delays or increased costs during product development, clinical trials and regulatory review, increased costs to ensure compliance with post-approval regulatory requirements and potential restrictions on the sale and/or distribution of approved products.. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the U.S. since PPACA was enacted. On August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011 among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in 2013, which will remain in effect until 2024 unless additional congressional action is taken. On January 2, 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 was signed into law, which, among other things, increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. We expect that additional federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, and in turn could significantly reduce the projected value of certain development projects and reduce our profitability.. 33. Table of Contents. More recently, the current presidential administration and many members of the U.S. Congress have attempted to repeal and replace PPACA, but they have been unsuccessful in doing so as of the date of the filing of this report. We cannot predict the ultimate form or timing of any repeal or replacement of PPACA or the effect such repeal or replacement would have on our business. Regardless of the impact of repeal or replacement of PPACA on us, the government has shown significant interest in pursuing healthcare reform and reducing healthcare costs.. We expect that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could result in reduced demand for our products once approved or additional pricing pressures, and may adversely affect our operating results.. Significant developments arising from changes in the political climate could have a material adverse effect on us.. Changes in U.S. social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment, and any negative sentiments towards the U.S. as a result of such changes, could adversely affect our business.. Additionally, in June 2016, the United Kingdom (U.K.) held a referendum and voted in favor of leaving the E.U. In February 2017, the U.K. parliament voted to allow the U.K. to exit the E.U. by passing a bill that gives the prime minister of the U.K. the authority to invoke Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty. This referendum has created political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the U.K. and the E.U., and this uncertainty may last for years. There are many ways in which our business could be affected, only some of which we can identify.. The referendum, and the likely withdrawal of the U.K. from the E.U. it triggers, has caused and, along with events that could occur in the future as a consequence of the U.K.'s withdrawal, including the possible breakup of the U.K., may continue to cause significant volatility in global financial markets, including in global currency and debt markets. This volatility could cause a slowdown in economic activity in the U.K., Europe or globally, which could adversely affect our operating results and growth prospects. In addition, our business could be negatively affected by new trade agreements between the U.K. and other countries, including the U.S., and by the possible imposition of trade or other regulatory barriers in the U.K., especially if the U.K. withdraws from the E.U. These possible negative impacts, and others resulting from the U.K.'s actual or threatened withdrawal from the E.U., may adversely affect our operating results and growth prospects as well as the manner in which we conduct our business operations in Europe.. U.S. federal income tax reform could adversely affect us.. In December 2017, U.S. federal tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), was signed into law, significantly reforming the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (IRC). The TCJA, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, puts into effect the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a territorial system and modifies or repeals many business deductions and credits.. We continue to examine the impact the TCJA may have on our business. The TCJA is a far-reaching and complex revision to the U.S. federal income tax laws with disparate and, in some cases, countervailing impacts on different categories of taxpayers and industries, and will require subsequent rulemaking and interpretation in a number of areas. The long-term impact of the TCJA on the overall economy, the industries in which we operate and our and our partners' business cannot be reliably predicted at this early stage of the new law's implementation. There can be no assurance that the TCJA will not negatively impact our operating results, financial condition, and future business operations. The estimated impact of the TCJA is based on our management's current knowledge and assumptions, following consultation with our tax advisors. Because of our valuation allowance in the U.S., ongoing tax effects of the Act are not expected to materially change our effective tax rate in future periods. The impact of the TCJA on holders of common stock is uncertain and could be materially adverse. This Annual Report does not discuss any such tax legislation or the manner in which it might affect investors in common stock. Investors should consult with their own tax advisors with respect to such legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in common stock.. New legislation or regulation which could affect our tax burden could be enacted by any governmental authority. We cannot predict the timing or extent of such tax-related developments which could have a negative impact on our financial results. Additionally, we use our best judgment in attempting to quantify and reserve for these tax obligations. However, a challenge by a taxing authority, our ability to utilize tax benefits such as carryforwards or tax credits, or a deviation from other tax-related assumptions may cause actual financial results to deviate from previous estimates.. 34. Table of Contents. Future transactions may harm our business or the market price of our stock.. We regularly review potential transactions related to technologies, products or product rights and businesses complementary to our business. These transactions could include:. <U+0095>   mergers;. <U+0095>   acquisitions;. <U+0095>   strategic alliances;. <U+0095>   licensing agreements; and. <U+0095>   co-promotion and similar agreements.. We may choose to enter into one or more of these transactions at any time, which may cause substantial fluctuations in the market price of our stock. Moreover, depending upon the nature of any transaction, we may experience a charge to earnings, which could also materially adversely affect our results of operations and could harm the market price of our stock.. We may undertake strategic acquisitions in the future, and difficulties integrating such acquisitions could damage our ability to achieve or sustain profitability.. Although we have no experience in acquiring businesses, we may acquire businesses or assets that complement or augment our existing business. If we acquire businesses with promising products or technologies, we may not be able to realize the benefit of acquiring such businesses if we are unable to move one or more products through preclinical and/or clinical development to regulatory approval and commercialization. Integrating any newly acquired businesses or technologies could be expensive and time-consuming, resulting in the diversion of resources from our current business. We may not be able to integrate any acquired business successfully. We cannot assure you that, following an acquisition, we will achieve revenues, specific net income or loss levels that justify the acquisition or that the acquisition will result in increased earnings, or reduced losses, for the combined company in any future period. Moreover, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing to acquire any businesses, which would result in dilution for stockholders or the incurrence of indebtedness and may not be available on terms which would otherwise be acceptable to us. We may not be able to operate acquired businesses profitably or otherwise implement our growth strategy successfully.. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors which make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance.. Our operating results will continue to be subject to fluctuations. The revenues we generate and our operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including:. <U+0095>   product sales;. <U+0095>   cost of product sales;. <U+0095>   marketing and other expenses;. <U+0095>   manufacturing or supply issues;. <U+0095>   the timing and amount of royalties or milestone payments;. <U+0095>   our addition or termination of development programs;. <U+0095>   variations in the level of expenses related to our products or future development programs;. <U+0095>   regulatory developments affecting our products or those of our competitors; our execution of collaborative, licensing or other arrangements, and the timing of payments we may make or receive under these arrangements;. <U+0095>   any intellectual property infringement or other lawsuit in which we may become involved; and. <U+0095>   the timing and recognition of stock-based compensation expense.. If our operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts or below any guidance we may provide, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. We believe that comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance.. 35. Table of Contents. We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems, infrastructure and data. Cybersecurity breaches could expose us to liability, damage our reputation, compromise our confidential information or otherwise adversely affect our business.. We are increasingly dependent upon information technology systems, infrastructure and data. Our computer systems may be vulnerable to service interruption or destruction, malicious intrusion and random attack. Security breaches pose a risk that sensitive data, including intellectual property, trade secrets or personal information may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. Cyber-attacks are increasing in their frequency, sophistication and intensity, and have become increasingly difficult to detect. Cyber-attacks could include the deployment of harmful malware, denial-of service, social engineering and other means to affect service reliability and threaten data confidentiality, integrity and availability. Our key business partners face similar risks, and a security breach of their systems could adversely affect our security posture. While we continue to invest in data protection and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions, or identify breaches in our systems, that could adversely affect our business and operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive information, which could result in financial, legal, business or reputational harm.. Risks related to intellectual property and other legal matters. Our rights to develop and commercialize our products are subject in part to the terms and conditions of licenses or sublicenses granted to us by other pharmaceutical companies.. Our rights to our product portfolio are based in part on patents and other intellectual property licensed from third-parties. These third parties may generally terminate the license agreements under certain circumstances, including a material breach of the agreement by the other. In the event we terminate our license, or if the third-party terminates our license due to our breach, rights to the intellectual property revert back to the licensor. Any termination or reversion of our rights to develop or commercialize our products would have a material adverse effect on our business.. If our efforts to protect the proprietary nature of the intellectual property related to our products are not adequate, we may not be able to compete effectively in our markets.. Method of treatment patents protect the use of a product for the method specified in the patent claims. This type of patent does not prevent a competitor from making and marketing a product that is identical to our product for a use that is outside the scope of the patented method. Moreover, even if competitors do not actively promote their product for our patented methods, physicians may prescribe these products \"off-label.\" Although off-label prescriptions may infringe or contribute to the infringement of method of treatment patents, such infringement may be difficult to prevent.. Our patents and patent applications may be challenged or fail to result in issued patents and our existing or future patents may be too narrow to prevent third parties from developing or designing around these patents. In addition, we generally rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect certain proprietary know-how that is not patentable, for processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and for any other elements of our drug development processes that involve proprietary know-how, information and technology that is not covered by patent applications. While we require all of our employees, consultants, advisors and any third parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information and technology to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot be certain that this know-how, information and technology will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. As a result, we may encounter significant problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property both in the U.S. and abroad. If we are unable to protect or defend the intellectual property related to our technologies, we will not be able to establish or maintain a competitive advantage in our market.. We have been, and may continue to be, involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, which could be expensive, time-consuming and unsuccessful, and third parties may challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents and they may be successful.. Even where laws provide protection or we are able to obtain patents, costly and time-consuming litigation may be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and the outcome of such litigation would be uncertain. Moreover, any actions we may bring to enforce our intellectual property against our competitors could provoke them to bring counterclaims against us, and some of our competitors have substantially greater intellectual property portfolios than we have. To counter infringement or unauthorized use of any patents we may obtain, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate. In addition, if we or one of our future collaborators were to initiate legal proceedings against a third party to enforce a patent covering one of our products, current product candidates, or one of our future products, the defendant could counterclaim that the patent is invalid or unenforceable. In patent litigation in the U.S., defendant counterclaims alleging invalidity or. 36. Table of Contents. unenforceability are commonplace and challenges to validity of patents in certain foreign jurisdictions are common as well. Grounds for a validity challenge could be an alleged failure to meet any of several statutory requirements, including lack of novelty, obviousness, non-enablement or lack of statutory subject matter. Grounds for an unenforceability assertion could be an allegation that someone connected with prosecution of the patent withheld relevant material information from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or made a materially misleading statement, during prosecution. We may assert the patents in Hatch-Waxman litigation against the party filing the ANDA to keep the competing product off of the market until the patents expire but there is a risk that we will not succeed. The party filing the ANDA may also counterclaim in the litigation that our patents are not valid or unenforceable, and the court may find one or more claims of our patents invalid or unenforceable. If this occurs, a competing generic product could be marketed prior to expiration of our patents listed in the FDA's Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, commonly known as the \"Orange Book,\" which would harm our business.. In June 2014, we filed suit against Roxane Laboratories, Inc. (Roxane) in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware (Delaware District Court). The suit seeks an adjudication that Roxane has infringed one or more claims of our U.S. Patent No. 8,586,610 ('610 Patent) by submitting to the FDA an ANDA for a generic version of Fanapt® prior to the expiration of the '610 Patent in November 2027. In addition, pursuant to a settlement agreement with Novartis Pharma AG (Novartis), we assumed Novartis' patent infringement action against Roxane in the Delaware District Court. That suit alleges that Roxane has infringed one or more claims of U.S. Patent RE39198 ('198 Patent), which is licensed exclusively to us, by filing an ANDA for a generic version of Fanapt® prior to the expiration of the '198 Patent in November 2016. These two cases against Roxane were consolidated by agreement of the parties and were tried together in a five-day bench trial that concluded on March 4, 2016. On August 25, 2016, the Delaware District Court ruled in our favor, finding that Roxane's ANDA product infringed the asserted claims of the '610 Patent and the '198 Patent. The Delaware District Court ruled that we are entitled to a permanent injunction against Roxane enjoining Roxane from infringing the '610 Patent, including the manufacture, use, sale, offer to sell, sale, distribution or importation of any generic iloperidone product described in the '610 Patent ANDA until the expiration of the '610 Patent in November 2027. If we obtain pediatric exclusivity, the injunction against Roxane would be extended until May 2028 under the Delaware District Court's order. On September 23, 2016, Roxane filed a notice of appeal with the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals (Federal Circuit). Roxane filed its opening appellate brief on February 7, 2017. We filed our responsive brief on April 19, 2017, and Roxane filed its reply brief on May 3, 2017. On July 27, 2017, Roxane, now a subsidiary of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC (Hikma), petitioned the Federal Circuit to substitute Roxane with new defendants West-Ward Pharmaceuticals International Limited and West-Ward Pharmaceuticals Corp. (each of which is a subsidiary of Hikma and both of which are referred to collectively herein as West-Ward). We did not oppose the substitution of West-Ward for Roxane. The appeal is fully briefed, and oral argument was held on December 5, 2017. The Federal Circuit has not yet issued a decision.. In 2015, we filed six separate patent infringement lawsuits in the Delaware District Court against Roxane, Inventia Healthcare Pvt. Ltd. (Inventia), Lupin Ltd. and Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Lupin), Taro Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. and Taro Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd. (Taro), and Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp. (collectively, the Defendants). The lawsuits each seek an adjudication that the respective Defendants infringed one or more claims of the '610 Patent and/or our U.S. Patent No. 9,138,432 ('432 Patent) by submitting to the FDA an ANDA for a generic version of Fanapt® prior to the expiration of the '610 Patent in November 2027 or the '432 Patent in September 2025. The Defendants have denied infringement and counterclaimed for declaratory judgment of invalidity and noninfringement of the '610 Patent and the '432 Patent. Certain Defendants have since entered into agreements resolving these lawsuits, as discussed below. The remaining parties have agreed, and the Delaware District Court has ordered, that within 14 days after any decision on the merits in the Roxane appeal, the parties will submit to the Delaware District Court a status report and request a schedule for trial. We entered into a confidential stipulation with Inventia regarding any potential launch of Inventia's generic ANDA product. We also entered into a confidential stipulation with Lupin regarding any potential launch of Lupin's generic ANDA product.. Lupin filed counter-claims for declaratory judgment of invalidity and noninfringement of seven of our method of treatment patents that are listed in the Orange Book related to Fanapt® (such seven patents, the Method of Treatment Patents). We have not sued Lupin for infringing the Method of Treatment Patents. On October 13, 2016, we, along with Lupin, filed a Stipulation of Dismissal in the Delaware District Court pursuant to which Lupin's counterclaims relating to the Method of Treatment Patents were dismissed without prejudice in recognition of an agreement reached between Lupin and us by which we would not assert those patents against Lupin absent certain changes in Lupin's proposed prescribing information for its iloperidone tablets.. On October 24, 2016, we entered into a License Agreement with Taro to resolve our patent litigation against Taro regarding Taro's ANDA seeking approval of its generic version of Fanapt® (Taro License Agreement). Under the Taro License Agreement, we granted Taro a non-exclusive license to manufacture and commercialize Taro's version of Fanapt® in the U.S. effective November 2, 2027, unless prior to that date we obtain pediatric exclusivity for Fanapt®, in which case, the license will be effective May 2, 2028. Taro may enter the market earlier under certain limited circumstances. The Taro License Agreement, which is subject to review by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), provides for a full settlement and release by us and Taro of all claims that are the subject of the litigation.. 37. Table of Contents. On December 7, 2016, we entered into a License Agreement with Apotex to resolve our patent litigation against Apotex regarding Apotex's ANDA seeking approval of its generic version of Fanapt® (Apotex License Agreement). Under the Apotex License Agreement, we granted Apotex a non-exclusive license to manufacture and commercialize Apotex's version of Fanapt® in the U.S. effective November 2, 2027, unless prior to that date we obtain pediatric exclusivity for Fanapt®, in which case, the license will be effective May 2, 2028. Apotex may enter the market earlier under certain limited circumstances. The Apotex License Agreement, which is subject to review by the FTC and the DOJ, provides for a full settlement and release by us and Apotex of all claims that are the subject of the litigation.. On February 26, 2016, Roxane filed suit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio (Ohio District Court). The suit sought a declaratory judgment of invalidity and noninfringement of the Method of Treatment Patents. We have not sued Roxane for infringing the Method of Treatment Patents. We filed a motion to dismiss this lawsuit for lack of personal jurisdiction or to transfer the lawsuit to the Delaware District Court. On December 20, 2016, the Ohio District Court ruled in our favor, dismissing Roxane's suit without prejudice for lack of personal jurisdiction.. On February 26, 2016, Roxane filed a Petition for Inter Partes Review (IPR) of the '432 Patent with the Patent Trials and Appeals Board (PTAB) of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. We filed a Preliminary Response on June 7, 2016, and on August 30, 2016, the PTAB denied the request by Roxane to institute an IPR of the '432 Patent. On September 29, 2016, Roxane filed a Petition for Rehearing with the PTAB, and on October 13, 2016, we filed a Response to Roxane's Petition. On November 4, 2016, the PTAB denied Roxane's Petition for Rehearing.. If we do not obtain protection under the Hatch-Waxman Act and similar foreign legislation to extend our patents and to obtain market exclusivity for our products, our business will be harmed.. The Hatch-Waxman Act provides for an extension of patent term for drugs for a period of up to five years to compensate for time spent in development. Assuming we gain a five-year patent term extension for HETLIOZ®, and that we continue to have rights under our license agreement with respect to this product, we would have exclusive rights to the HETLIOZ® U.S. new chemical entity patent (the primary patent covering the product as a new composition of matter) until 2022. We also own HETLIOZ® U.S. method of treatment patents (directed to the approved method of treatment as described in the HETLIOZ® label approved by the FDA), which expire normally in 2033 and 2034. The Fanapt® U.S. new chemical entity patent received the full five-year patent term extension under the Hatch-Waxman Act and so this patent in the U.S. expired in November 2016. In November 2013, a patent directed to a method of treating patients with Fanapt® based on genotype was issued to us by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. This patent, which was listed in the Orange Book in January 2015, is set to expire in 2027. Please see the risk factor entitled \"We have been, and may be, involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, which could be expensive, time-consuming and unsuccessful, and third parties may challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents and they may be successful,\" and Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, of this annual report on Form 10-K for additional information. See also Note 16, Legal Matters, to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II of this annual report on Form 10-K for additional information. Eight additional U.S. patents directed to methods of treating patients with Fanapt®, which are set to expire between 2025 and 2031, were issued to us in 2015.. A directive in the E.U. provides that companies that receive regulatory approval for a new medicinal product will have a 10-year period of market exclusivity for that product (with the possibility of a further one-year extension), beginning on the date of such European regulatory approval, regardless of when the European new chemical entity patent covering such product expires. A generic version of the approved drug may not be marketed or sold in Europe during such market exclusivity period. This directive is of material importance with respect to Fanapt®, since the European new chemical entity patent for Fanapt® has expired.. Assuming we gain a five-year patent term restoration for tradipitant, and that we continue to have rights under our license agreement with respect to this product, we would have exclusive rights to tradipitant' s U.S. new chemical entity patent until 2029. Assuming we gain a five-year patent term restoration for VQW-765, and that we continue to have rights under our license agreement with respect to this product, we would have exclusive rights to VQW-765's U.S. new chemical entity patent until 2028.. However, there is no assurance that we will receive the extensions of our patents or other exclusive rights available under the Hatch-Waxman Act or similar foreign legislation. If we fail to receive such extensions or exclusive rights, our or our partners' ability to prevent competitors from manufacturing, marketing and selling generic versions of our products will be materially impaired.. Litigation or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to divert resources and may prevent or delay our drug discovery and development efforts.. Our commercial success depends in part on our not infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies infringes upon these patents.. 38. Table of Contents. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to develop and commercialize one or more of our products. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would divert substantial financial and employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, obtain one or more licenses from third parties or pay royalties. In addition, even in the absence of litigation, we may need to obtain additional licenses from third parties to advance our research or allow commercialization of our products. We may fail to obtain any of these licenses at a reasonable cost or on reasonable terms, if at all. In that event, we would be unable to develop and commercialize further one or more of our products.. In addition, in the future we could be required to initiate litigation to enforce our proprietary rights against infringement by third parties. Prosecution of these claims to enforce our rights against others could divert substantial financial and employee resources from our business. If we fail to enforce our proprietary rights against others, our business will be harmed.. As described elsewhere in these risk factors and in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, of this annual report on Form 10-K, we have initiated lawsuits to enforce our patent rights against certain generic pharmaceutical companies.. Risks related to our common stock. Our stock price has been highly volatile and may be volatile in the future, and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses.. The realization of any of the risks described in these risk factors or other unforeseen risks could have a dramatic and adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Between January 1, 2017 and December 31, 2017, the high and low sale prices of our common stock as reported on The Nasdaq Global Market varied between $11.90 and $18.99. Additionally, market prices for securities of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including ours, have historically been very volatile. The market for these securities has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons that were unrelated to the operating performance of any one company.. The following factors, in addition to the other risk factors described in this section, may also have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock:. <U+0095>   our or our partners' level of success in commercializing our products;. <U+0095>   our level of success in executing our commercialization strategies;. <U+0095>   publicity regarding actual or potential testing or trial results relating to products under development by us or our competitors;. <U+0095>   the outcome of regulatory review relating to products under development by us or our competitors;. <U+0095>   regulatory developments in the U.S. and foreign countries;. <U+0095>   developments concerning any collaboration or other strategic transaction we may undertake;. <U+0095>   publicity regarding actual or potential litigation involving us;. <U+0095>   announcements of patent issuances or denials, technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors;. <U+0095>   termination or delay of development or commercialization program(s) by our partners;. <U+0095>   safety issues with our products or those of our competitors;. <U+0095>   announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products or methods by us or others;. <U+0095>   actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results;. <U+0095>   changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts or failure to meet such financial expectations;. <U+0095>   changes in government regulations or policies;. <U+0095>   changes in patent legislation or patent decisions or adverse changes to patent law;. <U+0095>   additions or departures of key personnel or members of our board of directors;. <U+0095>   the publication of negative research or articles about our company, our business or our products by industry analysts or others;. <U+0095>   market rumors or press reports;. 39. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   publicity regarding actual or potential transactions involving us; and. <U+0095>   economic, political and other external factors beyond our control.. We have been and may in the future be subject to litigation, which could harm our stock price, business, results of operations and financial condition.. We have been the subject of litigation in the past and may be subject to litigation in the future. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of their stock, many companies, including us, have been the subjects of securities class action litigation. Any such litigation can result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention and resources and could harm our stock price, business results of operations and financial condition. As a result of these factors, holders of our common stock might be unable to sell their shares at or above the price they paid for such shares.. If there are substantial sales of our common stock, our stock price could decline.. A small number of institutional investors and private equity funds hold a significant number of shares of our common stock. Sales by these stockholders of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation of such sales, could cause a significant reduction in the market price of our common stock.. In addition to our outstanding common stock, as of December 31, 2017 there were a total of 6,077,622 shares of our common stock that we have registered and that we are obligated to issue upon the exercise of currently outstanding options and settlement of restricted stock unit awards granted under our 2006 and 2016 Equity Incentive Plans. Upon the exercise of these options or settlement of the shares underlying these restricted stock units, as the case may be, in accordance with their respective terms, these shares may be resold freely, subject to restrictions imposed on our affiliates under Rule 144. If significant sales of these shares occur in short periods of time, these sales could reduce the market price of our common stock. Any reduction in the trading price of our common stock could impede our ability to raise capital on attractive terms, if at all.. If we fail to maintain the requirements for continued listing on The Nasdaq Global Market, our common stock could be delisted from trading, which would adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital.. Our common stock is currently listed for quotation on The Nasdaq Global Market. We are required to meet specified listing criteria in order to maintain our listing on The Nasdaq Global Market. If we fail to satisfy The Nasdaq Global Market's continued listing requirements, our common stock could be delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market, in which case we may transfer to The Nasdaq Capital Market, which generally has lower financial requirements for initial listing or, if we fail to meet its listing requirements, the over-the-counter bulletin board. Any potential delisting of our common stock from The Nasdaq Global Market would make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell our stock in the public market and would likely result in decreased liquidity and increased volatility for our common stock.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports or publish unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We currently have research coverage by securities and industry analysts. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our Company or fails to regularly publish reports on us, interest in the purchase of our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. You may experience future dilution as a result of future equity offerings.. In order to raise additional capital, we may in the future offer additional shares of our common stock or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock at prices that may not be the same as the price per share in previous offerings. We may sell shares or other securities in any other offering at a price per share that is less than the price per share paid by investors in previous offerings, and investors purchasing shares or other securities in the future could have rights superior to existing stockholders. The price per share at which we sell additional shares of our common stock, or securities convertible or exchangeable into common stock, in future transactions may be higher or lower than the price per share paid by investors.. 40. Table of Contents. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activist stockholders.. Proxy contests have been waged against many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry, including us, over the last several years. If faced with a proxy contest or other type of shareholder activism, we may not be able to respond successfully to the contest or dispute, which would be disruptive to our business. Even if we are successful, our business could be adversely affected by a proxy contest or shareholder dispute involving us or our partners because:. <U+0095>   responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting operations and diverting the attention of management and employees;. <U+0095>   perceived uncertainties as to future direction may result in the loss of potential acquisitions, collaborations or in-licensing opportunities, and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners; and. <U+0095>   if individuals are elected to a board of directors with a specific agenda, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively and timely implement our strategic plan and create additional value for our stockholders.. These actions could cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and bylaws and under Delaware law, and our rights plan could prevent or delay a change in control of our company.. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws:. <U+0095>   authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt;. <U+0095>   do not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would allow holders of less than a majority of the stock to elect some directors;. <U+0095>   establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following their election;. <U+0095>   require that directors only be removed from office for cause;. <U+0095>   provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly-created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office;. <U+0095>   limit who may call special meetings of stockholders;. <U+0095>   prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and. <U+0095>   establish advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. Moreover, in September 2008, our board of directors adopted a rights agreement that expires in September 2018, the provisions of which could result in significant dilution of the proportionate ownership of a potential acquirer and, accordingly, could discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us. While no determination has yet been made, our board of directors may choose to adopt a new rights agreement to replace the current one upon or prior to its expiration.. Global economic conditions may have an adverse effect on our business.. Financial instability or a general decline in economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries where we sell our product could adversely affect our operations. Economic conditions, and uncertainty as to the general direction of the macroeconomic environment, are beyond our control and may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. While we believe we have adequate capital resources to meet current working capital and capital expenditure requirements, an economic downturn or significant increase in our expenses could require additional financing on less than attractive rates or on terms that are excessively dilutive to existing stockholders. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and could require us to delay or abandon clinical development plans.. 41. Table of Contents. Sales of our products will be dependent, in large part, on reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private health insurers, distribution partners and other organizations. In the event of economic decline, these organizations may be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations or may delay payment. In addition, federal and state health authorities may reduce Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements, and private insurers may increase their scrutiny of claims. A reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement could negatively affect our or our partners' product sales and revenue.. In addition, we rely on third parties for several important aspects of our business. For example, we use third parties for sales, distribution, medical affairs and clinical research, and we rely upon several single source providers of raw materials and contract manufacturers for the manufacture of our products. During challenging and uncertain economic times and in tight credit markets, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third party contractors, suppliers or partners. If such third parties are unable to satisfy their commitments to us, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected."
