[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. You should carefully consider all of the information in this report, including the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations in future periods. The risks described below are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations in future periods.. Risks Related to Our Business. If we are unable to successfully implement our long-term strategic plan, including Vision 20/20, and growth strategies, our future operating results could suffer.. In fiscal 2018, we began to implement our Vision 20/20 plan, which is integrated into our long-term strategic plan, aimed to turnaround our business and restore brand and Company health over the next three years. The success of our long-term strategic plan and growth strategies, alone or collectively, will depend on various factors, including the appeal of our product designs, retail presentation to consumers, effectiveness of our marketing initiatives, expense saving initiatives, competitive conditions, and economic conditions. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our strategic plan and Vision 20/20 initiatives. If we are unsuccessful in implementing some or all of our strategies or initiatives, our future operating results could be adversely impacted.. Changes in general economic conditions, and their impact on consumer confidence and consumer spending, could adversely impact our results of operations.. Our performance is subject to general economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer confidence and consumer spending. Consumer confidence and consumer spending may be influenced by fluctuating interest rates and credit availability, changing fuel and other energy costs, fluctuating commodity prices, levels of unemployment and consumer debt levels, changes in net worth based on market conditions, general uncertainty regarding the overall future economic environment, and weather and weather-related phenomena. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during periods when disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty, and this could adversely impact our results of operations. In the event that the U.S. economy worsens, or if there is a decline in consumer-spending levels or other unfavorable conditions, including inflation, we could experience lower than expected net revenues, which could force us to delay or slow the implementation of our growth strategies and adversely impact our results of operations.. Our inability to predict and respond in a timely manner to changes in consumer demand could adversely affect our net revenues and results of operations.. Our success depends on our ability to gauge the fashion tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies consumer demand in a timely manner. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop appealing patterns and styles or meet changing consumer demands in the future. If we misjudge the market for our products, we may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for other products. In addition, changes to our product assortment and to our available fabrications, as well as the availability and breadth of pattern assortment may not gain consumer acceptance. Merchandise misjudgments could adversely impact our net revenues and results of operations.. We may continue to experience declines in comparable sales and there can be no guarantee that the strategic initiatives we are implementing to improve our results will be successful.. We may not be able to regain the levels of comparable sales that we have experienced in the past, and comparable sales may also further deteriorate. If our future comparable sales fail to meet market expectations, then the price of our common stock could decline. Also, the aggregate results of operations of our stores have fluctuated in the past and will fluctuate in the future. Numerous factors influence comparable sales, including fashion trends, competition, national and regional economic conditions, pricing, inflation, the timing of the release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, marketing programs, changes in consumer shopping trends, site selection strategy, and weather conditions. These factors may cause our comparable sales results to be lower in the future than in recent periods or lower than expectations, either of which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock.. If our multi-channel distribution model is not successful, our business and results of operations may suffer.. We currently sell into two segments: Direct to consumers through our full-line and factory outlet stores in the United States, verabradley.com, our online outlet site, direct-to-consumer eBay sales, and our annual outlet sale in Fort Wayne, Indiana; and through our Indirect wholesale business which consists of sales to approximately 2,400 specialty retail locations, substantially all of which are located in the United States, as well as department stores, national accounts, third party e-commerce sites,. 15. Table of Contents. third-party inventory liquidators, and sales generated through licensing agreements. These channels are sometimes in direct competition and sales through these channels may not be incremental to total sales.. We may not be able to successfully open new stores and/or operate new and current stores as planned, which could adversely impact our results of operations.. Our long-term future growth includes our ability to successfully open and operate new and current stores. In recent years, however, comparable store sales have declined. Consequently, the rate in which we have opened new stores has slowed and we do not currently have any new full-line stores planned to be opened during fiscal 2019.  As part of our Vision 20/20 initiatives, we are forecasting to close up to an additional 45 full-line stores by the end of fiscal 2021. We have closed nine underperforming stores since December 2014. We plan to open six new factory outlet stores during fiscal 2019 and will continue to evaluate our plans for store openings in future years in light of demand and store performance.. Our ability to successfully open and operate stores depends on many factors, including our ability to:. • identify suitable store locations, the availability of which may be uncertain;. • negotiate acceptable lease terms, including desired tenant improvement allowances;. • hire, train, and retain store personnel and management;. • assimilate new store personnel and management into our corporate culture;. • source and manufacture inventory; and. • successfully integrate new stores into our existing operations and information technology systems.. The success of new store openings may also be affected by our ability to initiate marketing efforts in advance of opening our first store in a particular region. Additionally, we will incur pre-opening costs and we may encounter initial losses while new stores commence operations, which could strain our resources and adversely impact our results of operations.. Our business depends on a strong brand. If we are unable to execute our marketing strategy, intended to enhance our brand, then revenues and our results of operations could be adversely impacted.. We believe that the brand image that we have developed has contributed significantly to the success of our business. We also believe that enhancing the Vera Bradley brand through our marketing strategy is critical to maintaining and expanding our customer base. Enhancing our brand and implementing our marketing strategy may require us to make substantial investments in areas such as product design, store operations, store design, community relations, and marketing. These investments might not succeed. If we are unable to successfully execute our brand strategy, our results of operations could be adversely impacted.. Our results of operations could suffer if we lose key management or design associates or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business.. Our performance depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our senior management and product development teams. These executives and design associates have substantial experience in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. Although we have entered into an employment agreement with our Chief Executive Officer, we may not be able to retain his services or those of other key individuals in the future. The unexpected loss of services of key employees could have adverse impacts on our business and results of operations. As our business grows and we open new stores, we will need to attract and retain additional qualified employees and develop, train, and manage an increasing number of management-level, sales, and other employees. Competition for qualified employees is intense. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain employees as needed in the future.. Our results of operations are subject to quarterly fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, including, among other things:. • timing of new store openings and store closings;. • net revenues and profits contributed by new stores;. • increases or decreases in store traffic and comparable sales;. • shifts in the timing of holidays, particularly in the United States and China;. • changes in our merchandise mix;. • timing of marketing campaigns or promotions;. 16. Table of Contents. • timing of sales to Indirect retailers; and. • timing of new pattern and collection releases and new product introductions.. Any quarterly fluctuations that we report in the future may not match the expectations of market analysts and investors. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly.. A data security or privacy breach could damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers, expose us to litigation risk and adversely affect our business.. On September 15, 2016, we received information from law enforcement regarding a potential data security issue related to our retail store network. Findings from the investigation showed unauthorized access to our payment processing system and the installation of a program that looked for payment card data. The program was specifically designed to find track data in the magnetic stripe of a payment card that may contain the card number, cardholder name, expiration date, and internal verification code as the data was being routed through the affected payment systems. Although we believe that we have resolved this incident, as more fully described within Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations herein, we remain dependent on information technology systems and networks, including the Internet, for a significant portion of our sales, primarily through our e-commerce operations and credit card transaction authorization and processing. We are also responsible for storing data relating to our customers and employees and rely on third parties for the operation of our e-commerce websites and for the various social media tools and websites we use as part of our marketing strategy. As part of our normal course of business, we often collect, retain, and transmit certain sensitive and confidential customer information, including credit card information, over public networks. There is a significant concern by consumers and employees over the security of personal information transmitted over the Internet, consumer identity theft and user privacy. Despite the security measures we currently have in place, our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events. Any electronic or physical security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information, including penetration of our network security, whether by us or by a third party, could disrupt our business, severely damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers, expose us to risks of litigation and liability and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We do not control third-party service providers and cannot guarantee that electronic or physical computer break-ins and security breaches will not occur in the future. Any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information regarding our customers or website visitors could harm our reputation and credibility, reduce our e-commerce net sales, impair our ability to attract website visitors, and reduce our ability to attract and retain customers. We may also incur significant costs in complying with the various applicable state, federal, and foreign laws regarding unauthorized disclosure of personal information.. Our business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate effectively.. We are dependent on our computer systems to record and process transactions and manage and operate our business, including in designing, marketing, manufacturing, importing, tracking and distributing our products, processing payments, and accounting for and reporting results. We also utilize an automated replenishment system to facilitate the processing of basic replenishment orders, the movement of goods through distribution channels, and the collection of information for planning and forecasting. In addition, we have an e-commerce website in the U.S. Given the complexity of our business and the significant number of transactions that we engage in on an annual basis, it is imperative that we maintain constant operation of our computer hardware and software systems. Despite our preventive efforts, our systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from, among other things, security breaches, computer viruses or power outages. Any material disruptions in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are exposed to business risks as a result of our e-commerce operations.. We operate an e-commerce store at www.verabradley.com, which includes an online outlet site we created in fiscal 2018. Expanding our e-commerce business is one of the key objectives of our business strategy. Our e-commerce operations are subject to numerous risks, including unanticipated operating problems, reliance on third-party computer hardware and software providers, system failures and the need to invest in additional computer systems. Specific risks include: (i) diversion of sales from our stores; (ii) rapid technological change; (iii) liability for e-commerce content; and (iv) risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate the websites and their related support systems, including from computer viruses, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Internet operations involve risks which may be beyond our control that could have a direct material adverse effect on our operating results, including: (i) price competition involving the items we intend to sell; (ii) the entry of our vendors into the Internet business in direct competition with us; (iii) the level of merchandise returns experienced by us; (iv) governmental regulation; (v) e-commerce security breaches involving. 17. Table of Contents. unauthorized access to our and/or customer information; (vi) credit card fraud; and (vii) competition and general economic conditions specific to the Internet, e-commerce, and the accessories industry. Our inability to effectively address these risks and any other risks that we face in connection with our Internet operations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and/or cash flows.. Closing stores could result in significant costs to us.. Since December 2014, we have closed nine underperforming stores and are forecasting to close 45 additional full-line stores by the end of fiscal 2021, primarily as leases expire. We could, in the future, decide to close additional stores that are producing losses or that are not as profitable as we expect. If we decide to close any stores before the expiration of their lease terms, we may incur payments to landlords to terminate or \"buy out\" the remaining term of the lease. We also may incur costs related to the employees at such stores, whether or not we terminate the leases early. Upon any such closure, the closing costs, including fixed assets and inventory write-downs, could adversely affect our results and could adversely affect our cash on hand.. Our ability to attract customers to our stores depends heavily on the success of the shopping centers in which many of our stores are located.. Substantially all of our Direct stores are located in regional mall shopping centers, and many of our Indirect customers are also located in these shopping centers. Factors beyond our control impact mall traffic, such as general economic conditions and consumer spending levels. Consumer spending and mall traffic have been depressed in recent years. As a result, mall operators have been facing increasing operational and financial difficulties. The increasing inability of mall \"anchor\" tenants and other area attractions to generate consumer traffic around our stores, the increasing inability of mall operators to attract \"anchor\" tenants and maintain viable operations, and the increasing departures of existing \"anchor\" and other mall tenants due to declines in the sales volume and in the popularity of certain malls as shopping destinations, have reduced and may continue to reduce our sales volume and, consequently, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We are subject to risks associated with leasing substantial amounts of space, including future increases in occupancy costs.. We lease all of our store locations. We typically occupy our stores under operating leases with terms of ten years. We have been able to negotiate favorable rental rates in recent years due in part to the state of the economy and high vacancy rates within some shopping centers, but there is no assurance that we will be able to continue to negotiate such favorable terms. Some of our leases have early cancellation clauses, which permit the lease to be terminated by us or the landlord if certain sales levels are not met in specific periods or if the shopping center does not meet specified occupancy standards. In addition to requiring future minimum lease payments, some of our store leases provide for the payment of common area maintenance charges, real property insurance, and real estate taxes. Many of our lease agreements have escalating rent provisions over the initial term and any extensions. If we expand our store base, our lease expense and our cash outlays for rent under lease agreements will increase. Our substantial operating lease obligations could have significant negative consequences, including:. • requiring that a substantial portion of our available cash be applied to pay our rental obligations, thus reducing cash available for other purposes;. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business or industry; and. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing.. Any of these consequences could place us at a disadvantage with respect to our competitors. We depend on cash flow from operating activities to pay our lease expenses and to fulfill our other cash needs. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to fund these expenses and needs, we may not be able to service our lease expenses, grow our business, respond to competitive challenges, or fund our other liquidity and capital needs, which would harm our business.. Additional sites that we lease may be subject to long-term non-cancelable leases if we are unable to negotiate our current standard lease terms. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease, including paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. Moreover, even if a lease has an early cancellation clause, we may not satisfy the contractual requirements for early cancellation under the lease. Our inability to enter new leases or renew existing leases on acceptable terms or be released from our obligations under leases for stores that we close would, in any such case, affect us adversely.. Our failure to effectively compete with other retailers for sales could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. The market for bags, accessories, and travel items is increasingly competitive. Our competitive challenges include:. • attracting customer traffic;. 18. Table of Contents. • sourcing and manufacturing merchandise efficiently;. • competitively pricing our products and achieving customer perception of value;. • maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to consumers in diverse market segments;. • developing designs that appeal to a broad range of demographic and age segments;. • developing high-quality products;. • offering attractive promotional incentives while maintaining profit margins; and. • establishing and maintaining good working relationships with our Indirect retailers.. In our Indirect business, we compete with numerous manufacturers, importers, and distributors of handbags, accessories, and other products for the limited space available for the display of such products to the consumer. In our Direct business, we compete against other gift and specialty retailers, department stores, catalog retailers, and Internet businesses that engage in the retail sale of similar products. Moreover, the general availability of contract manufacturing allows new entrants easy access to the markets in which we compete, which may increase the number of competitors and adversely affect our competitive position and our business.. In addition, in light of a continued difficult consumer environment, pricing is a significant driver of consumer choice in our industry and we regularly engage in price competition, particularly through our promotional programs. To the extent that we decrease our promotional activity, our ability to maintain sales levels may be impacted.. We rely on various contract manufacturers to produce all of our products and generally do not have long-term contracts with our manufacturers.. Our various contract manufacturers produce all of our products. We generally do not enter into long-term formal written agreements with our manufacturers and instead transact business with each of them on an order-by-order basis. In the event of a disruption in our contract manufacturers' systems, we may be unable to locate alternative manufacturers of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all. Identifying a suitable manufacturer is an involved process that requires us to become satisfied with the prospective manufacturer's quality control, responsiveness and service, financial stability, labor practices, and environmental compliance. Any delay, interruption, or increased cost in the manufactured products that might occur for any reason, such as the lack of long-term contracts or regulatory requirements and the loss of certifications, power interruptions, fires, hurricanes, war, or threats of terrorism, could affect our ability to meet customer demand for our products, adversely affect our net revenues, increase our cost of sales, and hurt our results of operations. In addition, manufacturing disruption could injure our reputation and customer relationships, thereby harming our business.. 19. Table of Contents. We rely on various suppliers to supply a significant majority of our raw materials.. We generally do not enter into long-term formal written agreements with our suppliers and typically transact business with each of them on an order-by-order basis. In the event of a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials from our current sources, we may not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all. In such a case, we could have difficulty meeting consumer demand and net revenues could be adversely impacted.. We rely on a single distribution facility for all of the products we sell.. Our distribution operations are currently concentrated in a single, company-owned distribution center in Roanoke, Indiana. Any significant disruption in the operation of the facility due to natural disaster or severe weather, or events such as fire, accidents, power outages, system failures, or other unforeseen causes, could devalue or damage a significant portion of our inventory and could adversely affect our product distribution and sales until such time as we could secure an alternative facility. If we encounter difficulties with our distribution facility or other problems or disasters arise, we cannot ensure that critical systems and operations will be restored in a timely manner or at all, and this would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, growth could require us to further expand our current facility, which could affect us adversely in ways that we cannot predict.. The cost of raw materials could increase our cost of sales and cause our results of operations to suffer.. Fluctuations in the price, availability, and quality of fabrics or other raw materials used to manufacture our products, as well as the price for labor, marketing, and transportation, could have adverse impacts on our cost of sales and our ability to meet our customers' demands. In particular, fluctuations in the price of cotton, our primary raw material, could have an adverse impact on our cost of sales. In addition, because a key component of our products is petroleum-based, the cost of oil affects the cost of our products. Upward movement in the price of oil in the global oil markets would also likely result in rising fuel and freight prices, which could increase our shipping costs. In the future, we may not be able to pass all or a portion of higher costs on to our customers.. Our business is subject to the risks inherent in global sourcing and manufacturing activities.. We source our fabrics primarily from manufacturers in China and South Korea and outsource the production of a significant majority of our products to companies in Asia. We are subject to the risks inherent in global sourcing and manufacturing, including, but not limited to:. • exchange rate fluctuations and trends;. • availability of raw materials;. • compliance with labor laws and other foreign governmental regulations;. • compliance with U.S. import and export laws and regulations;. • disruption or delays in shipments;. • loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites;. • product quality issues;. • political unrest;. • natural disasters, acts of war and terrorism, changing macroeconomic trends, and other external factors over which we have no control; and. • quotas, duties, tariffs, or other trade restrictions or regulations.. Significant disruption of manufacturing for any of the above reasons could interrupt product supply and, if not remedied in a timely manner, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Additionally, we do not have complete oversight over our contract manufacturers. Violation of labor or other laws by those manufacturers, or the divergence of a contract manufacturer's labor or other practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States or in other markets in which we may in the future do business, could also draw negative publicity for us and our brand, diminishing the value of our brand and reducing demand for our products.. 20. Table of Contents. Our ability to source our products at favorable prices, or at all, could be harmed, with adverse effects on our results of operations, if new trade restrictions are imposed or if existing trade restrictions become more burdensome.. A significant majority of our products are currently manufactured for us in Asia. The United States and the countries in which our products are produced have imposed and may impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs, or other restrictions or regulations or may adversely adjust prevailing quotas, duties, or tariffs. Countries impose, modify, and remove tariffs and other trade restrictions in response to a diverse array of factors, including global and national economic and political conditions, which make it impossible for us to predict future developments regarding tariffs and other trade restrictions. Trade restrictions, which include embargoes, safeguards, and customs restrictions, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of products available to us or could require us to modify our supply chain organization or other current business practices, any of which could harm our results of operations.. We may be subject to unionization, work stoppages, slowdowns, or increased labor costs.. Currently, none of our employees are represented by a union. Nevertheless, our employees have the right at any time under the National Labor Relations Act to organize or affiliate with a union. If some or all of our workforce were to become unionized, our business could be exposed to work stoppages and slowdowns as a unionized business. In addition, if the terms of the collective bargaining agreement were significantly more favorable to union workers than our current pay-and-benefits arrangements, our costs would increase and our results of operations would suffer.. We rely on independent transportation providers for substantially all of our product shipments.. We currently rely on independent transportation service providers for substantially all of our product shipments. Our utilization of these delivery services, or those of any other shipping companies that we may elect to use, is subject to risks, including increases in fuel prices, which would increase our shipping costs, employee strikes and inclement weather, which may impact the shipping company's ability to provide delivery services sufficient to meet our shipping needs.. If for any reason we were to change shipping companies, we could face logistical difficulties that might adversely affect deliveries, and we would incur costs and expend resources in the course of making the change. Moreover, we might not be able to obtain terms as favorable as those received from the service providers that we currently use, which in turn would increase our costs. We also would face shipping and distribution risks and uncertainties associated with any expansion of our distribution facility and related systems.. Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property or our infringement of other's intellectual property could have a negative impact on our operating results.. We believe that our registered copyrights, registered and common law trademarks, and other proprietary rights have significant value and are critical to our ability to create and sustain demand for our products. Although we have not been inhibited from selling our products in connection with intellectual property disputes, we cannot assure you that obstacles will not arise as we expand our product line and extend our brand as well as the geographic scope of our sales and marketing. We also cannot assure you that the actions taken by us to establish and protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products or infringement of our rights by others. The legal regimes of some foreign countries, particularly China, may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and it may be more difficult for us to successfully challenge the use of our proprietary rights by others in these countries. The loss of copyrights, trademarks, and other proprietary rights could adversely impact our results of operations. Any litigation regarding our proprietary rights could be time consuming and costly.. We are also subject to the risk that claims will be brought against us for infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties, seeking to block the sale of our products considered to violate their intellectual property rights or payment of monetary amounts. In particular, we are subject to copyright infringement claims for which we may not be entitled to indemnification from our suppliers. In addition, in recent years, companies in the retail industry, including us, have been subject to patent infringement claims from non-practicing entities, or \"patent trolls.\" Any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming and result in costly litigation. As a result, any such claim, or the combination of multiple claims, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If we are required to stop using any of our registered or nonregistered trademarks, our sales could decline and, consequently, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility of our operating results and stock price.. We are subject to income taxes in many U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. We record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which includes reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions. At any one time, many tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. Further, possible changes in federal, state, local, and non-U.S. tax laws. 21. Table of Contents. bearing upon our revenues, income, property, or other aspects of our operations or business would, if enacted, affect our results of operations in ways and to a degree that we cannot currently predict.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") was signed into law. The Tax Act includes, among other things, a corporate tax rate decrease from 35% to 21% effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, bonus depreciation that will allow for full expensing for qualified property, the transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide system to a territorial system, and a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017. Section 15 of the Internal Revenue Code stipulates that our fiscal year ending February 3, 2018, has a blended federal statutory tax rate of approximately 32.9%, which is based on the applicable tax rates before and after the effectiveness of the Tax Act.. The Company recorded $2.1 million in provisional income tax expense during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 based upon its understanding of the Tax Act and guidance as of the date of this filing.. The ultimate impact of the Tax Act may differ from the provisional income tax expense recognized in the consolidated financial statements during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018. The accounting for the Tax Act is expected to be complete when the fiscal 2018 federal income tax return is filed in fiscal 2019. Any resulting changes to the provisional estimates and amounts not yet estimated will be recognized as an adjustment to tax expense in the reporting period that the amounts are determined. These provisional amounts may differ due to, among other things, additional analysis, changes in interpretations and assumptions that the Company has made, additional regulatory guidance issued, and any additional actions the Company may take as a result of the Tax Act. Any of these items could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the Tax Act. Further, there may be material adverse effects on our business, results of operations, and liquidity resulting from the Tax Act that we have not yet identified.. We have recorded asset impairment charges in the past and we may record material asset impairment charges in the future.. Quarterly, we assess whether events or changes in circumstances have occurred that indicate the carrying value of long-lived assets may not be recoverable. If we determine that the carrying value of long-lived assets is not recoverable, we will be required to record impairment charges relating to those assets. For example, our assessments during fiscal 2018 indicated that operating losses or insufficient operating income existed at certain retail stores, with a projection that the operating losses or insufficient operating income for those locations would continue. As such, we recorded non-cash charges of $6.3 million during fiscal 2018 within selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of operations to write down the carrying values of these stores' long-lived assets to their estimated fair values.. Our quarterly evaluation of store assets includes consideration of current and historical performance and projections of future profitability. The profitability projections rely upon estimates made by us, including store-level sales, gross margins, and direct expenses, and, by their nature, include judgments about how current strategic initiatives will impact future performance. If we are not able to achieve the projected key financial metrics for any reason, including because any of the strategic initiatives being implemented do not result in significant improvements in our current financial performance trend, this would indicate that the value of our long-lived assets was not recoverable and we would incur additional impairment of assets in the future.. In the event we record additional impairment charges, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our Indirect business could suffer as a result of decisions by our Indirect retailers to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us.. We do not enter into long-term agreements with any of our Indirect retailers. Instead, we enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our lines every season. A decision by a significant number of Indirect retailers, whether motivated by competitive conditions, operational or financial difficulties, reduced access to capital, or otherwise, to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us or to change their manner of doing business with us could adversely impact our results of operations. Although we recommend retail sale prices for our products to our Indirect retailers, we typically do not provide dealer allowances or other economic incentives to support those prices. Possible promotional pricing or discounting by Indirect retailers in response to softening retail demand could have a negative effect on our brand image and prestige, which might be difficult to counteract.. Bankruptcies or other operational or financial difficulties of our Indirect retailers could adversely impact our business.. We sell our Indirect merchandise primarily to specialty retail and department stores across the United States and extend trade credit based on an evaluation of each Indirect retailer's financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. Perceived or actual financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail or eliminate business with that customer or could decrease demand for our products by that customer. Pending the resolution of a relationship with a financially troubled Indirect retailer,. 22. Table of Contents. we might assume credit risk that we would otherwise avoid relating to our receivables from that customer. Inability to collect on accounts receivable from our Indirect retailers would adversely impact our results of operations.. There are claims made against us from time to time that can result in litigation or regulatory proceedings, which could distract management from our business activities and result in significant liability or damage to our brand image.. We increasingly face the risk of litigation and other claims against us. Litigation and other claims may arise in the ordinary course of our business and include employee claims, custom and duty claims, commercial disputes, intellectual property issues, product-oriented allegations, and slip and fall claims. Often these cases raise complex factual and legal issues, which are subject to risks and uncertainties and which could require significant management time. Litigation and other claims against us could result in unexpected expenses and liability, as well as materially adversely affect our operations and our reputation.. We may suffer negative publicity and our business may be harmed if we need to recall any products we sell.. We have in the past needed to, and may in the future need to, recall products that we determine may present safety issues. If products we sell have safety problems of which we are not aware, or if we or the Consumer Product Safety Commission recall a product sold in our stores, we may suffer negative publicity and, potentially, product liability lawsuits, which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, financial condition and results of operations or cash flows.. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, and you may not be able to resell shares at or above the price at which you purchase them.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including:. • actions by other shopping mall or lifestyle center tenants;. • weather conditions, particularly during the holiday shopping period;. • unexpected departure of key executives;. • financial projections that we may choose to provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure for any reason to meet these projections;. • the public's response to press releases or other public announcements by us or others, including our filings with the SEC and announcements relating to litigation and other matters;. • speculation about our business in the press or the investment community;. • future sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders, officers, and directors;. • our entry into new markets;. • changes in laws or regulations that impact the retail industry;. • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; and. • changes in accounting principles.. These and other factors may result in a lower market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance.. In addition, the stock markets, including The NASDAQ Global Select Market, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many retail companies. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were involved in securities litigation, we could incur substantial costs and our resources and the attention of management could be diverted from our business.. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activist stockholders.. Over the last few years, proxy contests and other forms of stockholder activism have been directed against numerous public companies in retail businesses. We could become engaged in a consent solicitation, or proxy contest, or experience other stockholder activism, in the future. Activist shareholders may advocate for certain governance and strategic changes at our company. In the event of stockholder activism, particularly with respect to matters which our Board of Directors (\"Board\"), in exercising their fiduciary duties, disagree with or have determined not to pursue, our business could be adversely affected because responding to actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and. 23. Table of Contents. diverting the attention of management, and perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in the loss of potential business opportunities and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, business partners, and customers.. In addition, if faced with a consent solicitation or proxy contest, we may not be able to respond successfully to the contest or dispute, which would be disruptive to our business. If individuals are elected to our Board with a differing agenda, our ability to effectively and timely implement our strategic plan and create additional value for our stockholders may be adversely affected.. A limited number of shareholders control a large percentage of the voting power of our common stock, and therefore investors may have limited ability to determine the outcome of shareholder votes.. Michael Ray (our former CEO and Ms. Bradley Baekgaard's son in-law), Robert Hall, Barbara Bradley Baekgaard, Joan Hall (Mr. Hall's wife and Ms. Bradley Baekgaard's daughter), Patricia R. Miller, and P. Michael Miller, directly or indirectly, beneficially own and have the ability to exercise voting control over, in the aggregate, 36.7% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of February 3, 2018. As a result, these shareholders are able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, any amendments to our second amended and restated articles of incorporation, and significant corporate transactions. This concentrated ownership of outstanding common stock may limit your ability to influence corporate matters, and the interests of these shareholders may not coincide with our interests or your interests. As a result, we may take actions that you do not believe to be in our interests or your interests and that could depress our stock price. In addition, this significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock should investors perceive disadvantages in owning shares of common stock in a company that has such concentrated ownership.. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance, which could cause incongruous fluctuation in our stock price.. From time to time, we provide guidance regarding our future performance that represents our management's estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which consists of forward-looking statements, is prepared by our management and is qualified by, and subject to, the assumptions and the other information contained or referred to in the release. Our guidance is not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our independent registered public accounting firm nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the guidance and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto.. Guidance is based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic, and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. We generally state possible outcomes as high and low ranges which are intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed, but are not intended to represent that actual results could not fall outside of the suggested ranges. The principal reason that we release this data is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such persons.. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from the guidance and the variations may be material. Investors should also recognize that the reliability of any forecasted financial data diminishes the further in the future that the data are forecast.. In light of the foregoing, if investors, analysts, and others fail to review our guidance within the proper context or place undue reliance on our guidance, deviations from such guidance may result in incongruous fluctuation in our stock price.. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Indiana law may discourage or prevent a change in control, even if a sale of the Company would be beneficial to our shareholders, which could cause our stock price to decline and prevent attempts by shareholders to replace or remove our current management.. Our second amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock, harm the market price of our common stock, and diminish the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions include:. • dividing our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms;. 24. Table of Contents. • authorizing our board of directors to issue preferred stock and additional shares of our common stock without shareholder approval;. • prohibiting shareholder action by written consent;. • prohibiting our shareholders from calling a special meeting of shareholders;. • prohibiting our shareholders from amending our amended and restated bylaws; and. • requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at shareholders' meetings.. As permitted by our second amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, our board of directors also has the ability, should they so determine, to adopt a shareholder rights agreement, sometimes called a \"poison pill,\" providing for the issuance of a new series of preferred stock to holders of common stock. In the event of a takeover attempt, this preferred stock would give rights to holders of common stock (other than the potential acquirer) to buy additional shares of common stock at a discount, leading to the dilution of the potential acquirer's stake. The adoption of a poison pill, or the board's ability to do so, can have negative effects such as those described above.. As an Indiana corporation, we are governed by the Indiana Business Corporation Law (as amended from time to time, the \"IBCL\"). Under specified circumstances, certain provisions of the IBCL related to control share acquisitions, business combinations, and constituent interests may delay, prevent, or make more difficult unsolicited acquisitions or changes of control of us. These provisions also may have the effect of preventing changes in our management. It is possible that these provisions could make it more difficult to accomplish transactions that shareholders might deem to be in their best interest.. 25. Table of Contents"
