[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Investors should carefully consider the following factors, together with all the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating the Company and our business.  If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, the trading price of the General Partner's securities could decline and its stockholders and/or the Operating Partnership's unitholders may lose all or part of their investment.  Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations.  This \"Risk Factors\" section contains references to our \"capital stock\" and to our \"stockholders\" and \"unitholders.\"  Unless expressly stated otherwise, references to our \"capital stock\" represent the General Partner's common stock and any class or series of its preferred stock, references to our \"stockholders\" represent holders of the General Partner's common stock and any class or series of its preferred stock and references to our \"unitholders\" represent holders of the OP units and any class of series of the Operating Partnership's preferred units.. Risks Related to Our Business. We are primarily dependent on single-tenant leases for our revenue and, accordingly, if we are unable to renew leases, lease vacant space, including vacant space resulting from tenant defaults, or re-lease space as leases expire on favorable terms or at all, our financial condition could be adversely affected.. We focus our investment activities on ownership of freestanding, single-tenant commercial properties that are net leased to a single tenant.  Therefore, the financial failure of, or other default by, a significant tenant or multiple tenants could cause a material reduction in our revenues and operating cash flows.  In addition, to the extent that we enter into a master lease with a particular tenant, a default specific to a particular property could result in a termination of the entire master lease, resulting in the loss of revenue from all such properties.. We cannot assure you that our leases will be renewed or that we will be able to lease or re-lease the properties on favorable terms, or at all, or that lease terminations will not cause us to sell the properties at a loss.  Any of our properties that become vacant could be difficult to re-lease or sell.  We have and may continue to experience vacancies either by the continued default of a tenant under its lease or the expiration of one of our leases.  We typically must incur all of the costs of ownership for a property that is vacant.  Upon or pending the expiration of leases at our properties, we may be required to make rent or other concessions to tenants, or accommodate requests for lower rents, remodeling and other improvements, in order to retain and attract tenants.  Certain of our properties may be specifically suited to the particular needs of a tenant (e.g., a retail bank branch or distribution warehouse) and major renovations and expenditures may be required in order for us to re-lease the space for other uses.  If the vacancies continue for a long period of time, we may suffer reduced revenues, resulting in less cash available for distribution to our stockholders and unitholders.  If we are unable to renew leases, lease vacant space, including vacant space resulting from tenant defaults, or re-lease space as leases expire on favorable terms or at all, our financial condition could be adversely affected.. We are subject to tenant, geographic and industry concentrations that make us more susceptible to adverse events with respect to certain tenants, geographic areas or industries.. As of December 31, 2017, we had derived approximately:. • $75.4 million, or 6.5%, of our annualized rental income from Red Lobster®, a wholly owned subsidiary of Golden Gate Capital;. • $343.8 million, or 29.8%, of our annualized rental income from properties located in the following four states: Texas (12.8%), Ohio (5.9%), Florida (5.6%), and Illinois (5.5%); and. • $612.7 million, or 53.0%, of our annualized rental income from tenants in the following six industries: the casual dining restaurant industry (13.8%), the manufacturing industry (10.1%), the quick service restaurant industry (8.9%), the discount retail industry (8.1%), the pharmacy retail industry (7.1%) and the grocery & supermarket retail industry (5.0%).. Any adverse change in the financial condition of a tenant with whom we may have a significant credit concentration now or in the future, or any downturn of the economy in any state or industry in which we may have a significant credit concentration now or in the future, could result in a material reduction of our cash flows or material losses to us.. 8. Table of Contents. Our net leases may require us to pay property-related expenses that are not the obligations of our tenants.. Under the terms of the majority of our net leases, in addition to satisfying their rent obligations, our tenants are responsible for the payment or reimbursement of property expenses such as real estate taxes, insurance and ordinary maintenance and repairs. However, under the provisions of certain existing leases and leases that we may enter into in the future with our tenants, we may be required to pay some or all of the expenses of the property, such as the costs of environmental liabilities, roof and structural repairs, real estate taxes, insurance, certain non-structural repairs and maintenance.  If our properties incur significant expenses that must be paid by us under the terms of our leases, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected and the amount of cash available to meet expenses and to make distributions to our stockholders and unitholders may be reduced.. Our properties may be subject to impairment charges.. We routinely evaluate our real estate investments for impairment indicators. The judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based on factors such as market conditions and tenant performance.  For example, the early termination of, or default under, a lease by a tenant may lead to an impairment charge.  Since our investment focus is on properties net leased to a single tenant, the financial failure of, or other default by, a single tenant under its lease(s) may result in a significant impairment loss.  If we determine that an impairment has occurred, we would be required to make a downward adjustment to the net carrying value of the property, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the impairment charge is recorded.  Management has recorded impairment charges related to certain properties in the year ended December 31, 2017, and may record future impairments based on actual results and changes in circumstances.  Negative developments in the real estate market may cause management to reevaluate the business and macro-economic assumptions used in its impairment analysis.  Changes in management's assumptions based on actual results may have a material impact on the Company's financial statements.  See \"Note 9  -  Fair Value Measures\" to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of real estate impairment charges.. Our ownership of certain properties and other facilities are subject to ground leases or other similar agreements which limit our uses of these properties and may restrict our ability to sell or otherwise transfer such properties.. As of December 31, 2017, we held interests in properties and other facilities through leasehold interests in the land on which the buildings are located and we may acquire additional properties in the future that are subject to ground leases or other similar agreements. As of December 31, 2017, the costs associated with these ground leases represented 2.0% of annualized rental revenue. Many of our ground leases and other similar agreements limit our uses of these properties and may restrict our ability to sell or otherwise transfer such properties without the ground landlord's consent, which may impair their value.. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and therefore we may not be able to dispose of properties when appropriate or on favorable terms.. Real estate investments are, in general, relatively illiquid and may become even more illiquid during periods of economic downturn. As a result, we may not be able to sell our properties quickly or on favorable terms in response to changes in the economy or other conditions when it otherwise may be prudent to do so.  In addition, certain significant expenditures generally do not change in response to economic or other conditions, including debt service obligations, real estate taxes, and operating and maintenance costs.  This combination of variable revenue and relatively fixed expenditures may result, under certain market conditions, in reduced earnings.  Further, as a result of the 100% prohibited transactions tax applicable to REITs, we intend to hold our properties for investment, rather than primarily for sale in the ordinary course of business, which may cause us to forgo or defer sales of properties that otherwise would be favorable.  Therefore, we may be unable to adjust our portfolio promptly in response to economic, market or other conditions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. Our investments in properties where the underlying tenant has a below investment grade credit rating, as determined by major credit rating agencies, or where the tenant is not rated may have a greater risk of default.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 60.4% of our tenants were not rated or did not have an investment grade credit rating from a major ratings agency or were not affiliates of companies having an investment grade credit rating.  Our investments in properties leased to such tenants may have a greater risk of default and bankruptcy than investments in properties leased exclusively to investment grade tenants.  When we invest in properties where the tenant does not have a publicly available credit rating, we will use certain credit-assessment tools as well as rely on our own estimates of the tenant's credit rating which includes reviewing the tenant's financial information (e.g., financial ratios, net worth, revenue, cash flows, leverage and liquidity, if applicable).  If our ratings estimates are inaccurate, the default or bankruptcy risk for the subject tenant may be greater than anticipated.  If our lender or a credit rating agency disagrees with our ratings estimates, we may not be able to obtain our desired level of leverage or. 9. Table of Contents. our financing costs may exceed those that we projected.  This outcome could have an adverse impact on our returns on that asset and hence our operating results.. We may be unable to sell a property if or when we decide to do so, including as a result of uncertain market conditions, which could adversely impact our ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders and unitholders.. We expect to hold the various real properties in which we invest until such time as we decide that a sale or other disposition is appropriate given our investment business objectives and REIT limitations. We generally intend to hold properties for an extended time, but our management or Board of Directors may exercise their discretion as to whether and when to sell a property to achieve investment objectives.  Our ability to dispose of properties on advantageous terms or at all depends on certain factors beyond our control, including competition from other sellers and the availability of attractive financing for potential buyers of our properties. We cannot predict the various market conditions affecting real estate investments which will exist at any particular time in the future. Due to the uncertainty of market conditions which may affect the disposition of our properties, we cannot assure you that we will be able to sell such properties at a profit or at all in the future. Accordingly, the extent to which our stockholders and unitholders will receive cash distributions and realize potential appreciation on our real estate investments will depend upon fluctuating market conditions.  Furthermore, we may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold.. Dividends paid from sources other than our cash flow from operations could affect our profitability, restrict our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and dilute stockholders' and unitholders' interests in us.. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to pay dividends and we may in the future pay dividends from sources other than from our cash flow from operations, such as borrowings and/or the sale of assets or the proceeds from offerings of securities.  We have not established any limit on the amount of borrowings and/or the sale of assets or the proceeds from an offering of securities that may be used to fund dividends, except that, in accordance with our organizational documents and Maryland law, we may not make dividend distributions that would: (1) cause us to be unable to pay our debts as they become due in the usual course of business; (2) cause our total assets to be less than the sum of our total liabilities plus senior liquidation preferences; or (3) jeopardize our ability to qualify as a REIT.. Funding dividends from borrowings could restrict the amount we can borrow for investments, which may affect our profitability.  Funding dividends with the sale of assets or the proceeds of offerings of securities may affect our ability to generate cash flows.  In addition, funding dividends from the sale of additional securities could dilute your interest in us if we sell shares of our common stock or securities that are convertible or exercisable into shares of our common stock to third party investors. As a result, the return you realize on your investment may be reduced.  Payment of dividends from these sources could affect our profitability, restrict our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and dilute stockholders' and unitholders' interests in us, any or all of which may adversely affect your overall return.. We could face potential adverse effects from the bankruptcies or insolvencies of tenants or from tenant defaults generally.. The bankruptcy or insolvency of our tenants may adversely affect the income produced by our properties.  Under bankruptcy law, a tenant cannot be evicted solely because of its bankruptcy and has the option to assume or reject any unexpired lease.  If the tenant rejects the lease, any resulting claim we have for breach of the lease (excluding collateral securing the claim) will be treated as a general unsecured claim.  Our claim against the bankrupt tenant for unpaid and future rent will be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease, and it is unlikely that a bankrupt tenant that rejects its lease would pay in full amounts it owes us under the lease.  Even if a lease is assumed and brought current, we still run the risk that a tenant could condition lease assumption on a restructuring of certain terms, including rent, that would have an adverse impact on us. Any shortfall resulting from the bankruptcy of one or more of our tenants could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations and could cause us to reduce the amount of distributions to our stockholders and unitholders.. In addition, the financial failure of, or other default by, one or more of the tenants to whom we have exposure could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations.  While we evaluate the creditworthiness of our tenants by reviewing available financial and other pertinent information, there can be no assurance that any tenant will be able to make timely rental payments or avoid defaulting under its lease.  If any of our tenants' businesses experience significant adverse changes, they may fail to make rental payments when due, close a number of stores, exercise early termination rights (to the extent such rights are available to the tenant) or declare bankruptcy.  A default by a significant tenant or multiple tenants could cause a material reduction in our revenues and operating cash flows.  In addition, if a tenant defaults, we may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment.. 10. Table of Contents. If a sale-leaseback transaction is re-characterized in a tenant's bankruptcy proceeding, our financial condition could be adversely affected.. We have entered and may continue to enter into sale-leaseback transactions.  In a sale-leaseback transaction, we purchase a property and then lease it back to the third party from whom we purchased it.  In the event of the bankruptcy of a tenant, a transaction structured as a sale-leaseback might possibly be re-characterized as either a financing or a joint venture, either of which outcomes could adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and the amount available for distribution to our stockholders and unitholders.. If a sale-leaseback is re-characterized as a financing, we would not be considered the owner of the property and, as a result, would have the status of a creditor in relation to the tenant.  In that event, we would no longer have the right to sell or encumber our ownership interest in the property.  Instead, we would have a claim against the tenant for the amounts owed under the lease, with the claim arguably secured by the property.  The tenant/debtor might have the ability to propose a plan restructuring the term, interest rate and amortization schedule of its outstanding balance.  If confirmed by the bankruptcy court, we could be bound by the new terms and prevented from foreclosing our lien on the property.  If the sale-leaseback is re-characterized as a joint venture, our lessee and we could be treated as co-venturers with regard to the property.  As a result, we could be held liable, under some circumstances, for debts incurred by the lessee relating to the property.. We have a history of operating losses and cannot assure you that we will maintain profitability.. Since our inception in 2010, we have experienced net losses (calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP)  and as of December 31, 2017, had an accumulated deficit of $4.78 billion. The extent of our future operating losses and the timing of when we will achieve profitability are uncertain, and together depend on the demand for, and value of, our portfolio of properties.  We may never achieve or sustain profitability.. We may be unable to enter into and consummate property acquisitions on advantageous terms or our property acquisitions may not perform as we expect due to competitive conditions and other factors.. We may acquire properties in the future.  The acquisition of properties entails various risks, including the risks that our investments may not perform as we expect and that our cost estimates for bringing an acquired property up to market standards may prove inaccurate.  Further, we expect to finance any future acquisitions through a combination of borrowings under our unsecured credit facility (the \"Credit Facility\"), proceeds from equity or debt offerings by the General Partner, the Operating Partnership or their subsidiaries, funds from operations and proceeds from property contributions and dispositions which, if unavailable, could adversely affect our cash flows.. In addition, our ability to acquire properties in the future on satisfactory terms and successfully integrate and operate such properties is subject to the following significant risks:. • we may be unable to acquire desired properties or the purchase price of a desired property may increase significantly because of competition from other real estate investors, including other real estate operating companies, REITs and investment funds;. • we may acquire properties that are not accretive to our earnings upon acquisition;. • we may be unable to obtain the necessary debt or equity financing to consummate an acquisition or, if obtainable, financing may not be on satisfactory terms;. • we may need to spend more than budgeted amounts to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties;. • agreements for the acquisition of properties are typically subject to customary conditions to closing, including satisfactory completion of due diligence investigations, and we may spend significant time and money on potential acquisitions that we do not consummate;. • we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations; and. • we may acquire properties without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, for liabilities, whether known or unknown, such as cleanup of environmental contamination, remediation of latent defects, claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the former owners of the properties and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties.. Any of the above risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. 11. Table of Contents. We have assumed, and may in the future assume, liabilities in connection with our property acquisitions, including unknown liabilities.. We have assumed existing liabilities, some of which may have been unknown or unquantifiable at the time of the transaction. Unknown liabilities might include liabilities for cleanup or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions, claims of tenants or other persons dealing with prior owners of the properties, tax liabilities, and accrued but unpaid liabilities whether incurred in the ordinary course of business or otherwise.  If the magnitude of such unknown liabilities is high, either singly or in the aggregate, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. We face intense competition, which may decrease or prevent increases in the occupancy and rental rates of our properties.. We are subject to competition in the leasing of our properties.  We compete with numerous developers, owners and operators of retail, restaurant, industrial and office real estate, many of which have greater financial and other resources than us.  Many of our competitors own properties similar to ours in the same markets in which our properties are located.  If one of our properties is nearing the end of the lease term or becomes vacant and our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our tenants, we may lose existing or potential tenants and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge or to offer substantial rent concessions in order to retain tenants when such tenants' lease expire or attract new tenants.  In addition, if our competitors sell assets similar to assets we intend to divest in the same markets and/or at valuations below our valuations for comparable assets, we may be unable to divest our assets at all or at favorable pricing or on favorable terms.  As a result of these actions by our competitors, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations may be adversely affected.. The value of our real estate investments is subject to risks associated with our real estate assets and with the real estate industry.. Our real estate investments are subject to various risks, fluctuations and cycles in value and demand, many of which are beyond our control.  Certain events may decrease our cash available for distribution to our stockholders and unitholders, as well as the value of our properties.  These events include, but are not limited to:. • adverse changes in international, national or local economic and demographic conditions;. • vacancies or our inability to lease space on favorable terms, including possible market pressures to offer tenants rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or tenant-favorable renewal options;. • adverse changes in financial conditions of buyers, sellers and tenants of properties;. • inability to collect rent from tenants, or other failures by tenants to perform the obligations under their leases;. • competition from other real estate investors, including other real estate operating companies, REITs and institutional investment funds;. • reductions in the level of demand for commercial space generally, and freestanding net leased properties specifically, and changes in the relative popularity of our properties;. • increases in the supply of freestanding single-tenant properties;. • fluctuations in interest rates, which could adversely affect our ability, or the ability of buyers and tenants of our properties, to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all;. • increases in expenses, including, but not limited to, insurance costs, labor costs, energy prices, real estate assessments and other taxes and costs of compliance with laws, regulations and governmental policies, all of which have an adverse impact on the rent a tenant may be willing to pay us in order to lease one or more of our properties;. • loss of property rights, adverse impacts on our tenants' business operations and/or increases in tenant vacancies resulting from eminent domain proceedings;. • civil unrest, acts of God, including earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and other natural disasters, including extreme weather events from possible future climate change, which may result in uninsured losses, and acts of war or terrorism; and. • changes in, and changes in enforcement of, laws, regulations and governmental policies, including, without limitation, health, safety, environmental, zoning and tax laws, governmental fiscal policies and the Americans with Disabilities Act.. Any or all of these factors could materially adversely affect our results of operations through decreased revenues or increased costs.. 12. Table of Contents. Uninsured losses or losses in excess of our insurance coverage could materially adversely affect our financial condition and cash flows, and there can be no assurance as to future costs and the scope of coverage that may be available under insurance policies.. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage, and rental loss insurance covering all of the properties in our portfolio under one or more blanket insurance policies with policy specifications, limits and deductibles customarily carried for similar properties.  In addition, we carry professional liability and directors' and officers' insurance, and cyber liability insurance.  We select policy specifications and insured limits that we believe are appropriate and adequate given the relative risk of loss, insurance coverages provided by tenants, the cost of the coverage and industry practice.  There can be no assurance, however, that the insured limits on any particular policy will adequately cover an insured loss if one occurs.  If any such loss is insured, we may be required to pay a significant deductible on any claim for recovery of such a loss prior to our insurer being obligated to reimburse us for the loss, or the amount of the loss may exceed our coverage for the loss.  In addition, we may reduce or discontinue terrorism, earthquake, flood or other insurance on some or all of our properties in the future if the cost of premiums for any of these policies exceeds, in our judgment, the value of the coverage discounted for the risk of loss.  Our title insurance policies may not insure for the current aggregate market value of our portfolio, and we do not intend to increase our title insurance coverage as the market value of our portfolio increases.. Further, we do not carry insurance for certain losses, including, but not limited to, losses caused by riots, war or nuclear explosions.  Certain types of losses may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable, such as losses due to earthquakes, riots or acts of war. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or which exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties.  In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged.  In addition, we carry several different lines of insurance, placed with several large insurance carriers.  If any one of these large insurance carriers were to become insolvent, we would be forced to replace the existing insurance coverage with another suitable carrier, and any outstanding claims would be at risk for collection.  In such an event, we cannot be certain that we would be able to replace the coverage at similar or otherwise favorable terms.  As a result of any of the situations described above, our financial condition and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected.. Our participation in joint ventures creates additional risks as compared to direct real estate investments, and the actions of our joint venture partners could adversely affect our operations or performance.. We have in the past participated, and may in the future participate, in transactions structured to purchase assets jointly with unaffiliated third parties (a \"joint venture\"). There are additional risks involved in joint venture transactions. As a co-investor in a joint venture, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority relating to the property, joint venture, or other entity. In addition, there is the potential of the third-party participant in the joint venture becoming bankrupt and the possibility of diverging or inconsistent economic or business interests of us and that participant.  These diverging interests could result in, among other things, exposure to liabilities of the joint venture in excess of our proportionate share of these liabilities. The competing rights of each owner in a jointly-owned property could effect a reduction in the value of each owner's interest in the subject property.. If we are unable to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and effective internal control over financial reporting, investor confidence and our stock price could be adversely affected.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.  There were no changes to our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2017 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting, however, there can be no guarantee as to the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and we cannot assure you that our internal control over financial reporting will not be subject to material weaknesses in the future. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting and our operating internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls as a result of changes to our business or otherwise, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected and we could fail to meet our reporting obligations.. Government investigations relating to the findings of the Audit Committee Investigation may result in significant legal expenses, fines, and/or penalties, including indemnification obligations, and cause our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations to suffer.. On November 13, 2014, we received the first of two subpoenas relating to the findings of the Audit Committee Investigation from the staff of the SEC, each of which called for the production of certain documents. On December 19, 2014, we received a subpoena from the Securities Division of the Office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. The U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York also contacted counsel for the Company and counsel for the Audit Committee. We. 13. Table of Contents. are cooperating with these regulators in their investigations. The amount of time needed to resolve these investigations is uncertain, and, although the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York has indicated that it does not intend to bring criminal charges against the Company arising from its investigation, we cannot predict the outcome of other investigations or whether we will face additional government investigations, inquiries or other actions related to these matters.  Subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former directors, officers and employees, among others in connection with the ongoing government investigations and potential future government inquiries, investigations or actions, including advancement of legal fees. These matters could result in actions seeking, among other things, injunctions against us and the payment of significant fines and/or penalties, as well as requiring payment of substantial legal fees and indemnification obligations, and cause our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations to suffer. We can provide no assurance as to the outcome of any government investigation.. The Company and certain of our former officers and directors, among others, have been named as defendants in various lawsuits related to the findings of the Audit Committee Investigation which have resulted in significant legal expenses which are expected to continue. Any resolution could require substantial payments by the Company, including indemnification obligations, and may materially impact our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. Since the October 29, 2014 announcement of the findings of the Audit Committee Investigation and the subsequent restatement of the Company's financial statements in March 2015, the Company and its former officers and directors (along with others) have been named as defendants in multiple putative securities class action complaints in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, which were subsequently consolidated under the caption In re American Realty Capital Properties, Inc. Litigation, 1:15-mc-00040-AKH, multiple individual securities lawsuits and multiple derivative lawsuits. See \"Note 15  -  Commitments and Contingencies\" to our consolidated financial statements for additional details regarding pending litigation matters related to the Audit Committee Investigation.. As a result of the various pending litigations, and subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to advance certain legal expenses to and indemnify our current and former directors, officers and employees, as well as certain outside individuals and entities. These lawsuits have resulted in significant ongoing legal expenses, which are expected to continue. The resolution of these matters, and the timing thereof, are uncertain. Any such resolution, whether through a judgment or a settlement, could require substantial payments by the Company, including potential indemnification obligations, which in large part are not expected to be covered by insurance, and may materially impact the Company's business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial position and results of operations, and they require management to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain.. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial position and results of operations. We have identified several accounting policies as being critical to the presentation of our financial position and results of operations because they require management to make particularly subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be recorded under different conditions or using different assumptions. Because of the inherent uncertainty of the estimates, judgments, and assumptions associated with these critical accounting policies, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not make subsequent significant adjustments to our consolidated financial statements. If our judgments, assumptions, and allocations prove to be incorrect, or if circumstances change, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Changes in U.S. accounting standards regarding operating leases may make the leasing of our properties less attractive to our potential tenants, which could reduce overall demand for our leasing services.. Under current authoritative accounting guidance for leases, a lease is classified by a tenant as a capital lease if the significant risks and rewards of ownership are considered to reside with the tenant. Under capital lease accounting for a tenant, both the leased asset and liability are reflected on its balance sheet. If the lease does not meet the criteria for a capital lease, the lease is to be considered an operating lease by the tenant, and the obligation does not appear on the tenant's balance sheet; rather, the contractual future minimum payment obligations are only disclosed in the footnotes thereto.  Thus, entering into an operating lease can appear to enhance a tenant's balance sheet in comparison to direct ownership. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (the \"FASB\") and the International Accounting Standards Board (the \"IASB\") conducted a joint project to re-evaluate lease accounting. In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update, (\"ASU\") 2016-02, Leases (\"ASU 2016-02\") which will require that a lessee recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for all leases with a lease term of more than 12 months, with the result being the recognition of a right of use asset and a lease liability and the disclosure of key information about the entity's leasing arrangements. These and other potential changes to the accounting guidance could affect both our accounting for leases as well as that of our current and potential tenants. These changes may affect how our real estate leasing business is conducted. For example, with the ASU 2016-02 revision, companies may be less willing to enter into leases in general or desire to enter into. 14. Table of Contents. leases with shorter terms because the apparent benefits to their balance sheets under current practice could be reduced or eliminated.  This impact in turn could make it more difficult for us to enter into leases on terms we find favorable. The amendments in ASU 2016-02 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company expects the accounting for leases pursuant to which the Company is the lessee to change and is currently evaluating the impact. Leases pursuant to which the Company is the lessee primarily consist of corporate offices and ground leases.. We may not be able to maintain our competitive advantages if we are not able to attract and retain key personnel.. Our success depends to a significant extent on our ability to attract and retain key members of our executive team and staff. Our future success depends in part on the continued service of our senior management team.  If there are changes in senior leadership, such changes could be disruptive and could compromise our ability to execute our strategic plan.  While we have entered into employment agreements with certain key personnel, there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain the services of individuals whose knowledge and skills are important to our businesses.  Our success also depends on our ability to prospectively attract, integrate, train and retain qualified management personnel.  Because the competition for qualified personnel is intense, costs related to compensation and retention could increase significantly in the future.  If we were to lose a sufficient number of our key employees and were unable to replace them in a reasonable period of time, these losses could damage our business and adversely affect our results of operations.. Competition that traditional retail tenants face from e-commerce retail sales, or the integration of brick and mortar stores with e-commerce retailers, could adversely affect our business.. Our retail tenants face increasing competition from e-commerce retailers.  E-commerce sales have accounted for an increasing percentage of retail sales over the past few years and this trend is expected to continue. These trends may have an impact on decisions that retailers make regarding their brick and mortar stores. Changes in shopping trends as a result of the growth in e-commerce may also impact the profitability of retailers that do not adapt to changes in market conditions. The continued growth of e-commerce sales could decrease the need for traditional retail outlets and reduce retailers' space and property requirements.  These conditions could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows if we are unable to meet the needs of our tenants or if our tenants encounter financial difficulties as a result of changing market conditions.. Cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents may adversely affect our business by causing a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of our confidential information, and/or damage to our business relationships, all of which could negatively impact our financial results.. A cyber incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity or availability of our information resources.  These incidents may be an intentional attack or an unintentional event and could involve gaining unauthorized access to our information systems for purposes of misappropriating assets, stealing confidential information, corrupting data or causing operational disruption.  The result of these incidents may include disrupted operations, misstated or unreliable financial data, liability for stolen assets or information, increased cybersecurity protection and insurance costs, litigation and damage to our tenant and investor relationships.  As our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our information systems, both internal and those we have outsourced.  We have implemented processes, procedures and internal controls to help mitigate cybersecurity risks and cyber intrusions, but these measures, as well as our increased awareness of the nature and extent of a risk of a cyber incident, do not guarantee that our financial results, operations, business relationships or confidential information will not be negatively impacted by such an incident.. We may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax deferred contribution transactions, which could result in the dilution of our stockholders and unitholders, and limit our ability to sell or refinance such assets.. We have in the past and may in the future acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax deferred contribution transactions in exchange for OP Units. Under the limited partnership agreement of the OP, as amended (the \"LPA\"), after holding the OP Units for a period of one year, unless otherwise consented to by the General Partner, holders of OP Units have a right to redeem the OP Units for the cash value of a corresponding number of shares of the General Partner's common stock or, at the option of the General Partner, a corresponding number of shares of the General Partner's common stock.  This could result in the dilution of our stockholders and unitholders through the issuance of OP Units that may be exchanged for shares of our common stock.  This acquisition structure may also have the effect of, among other things, reducing the amount of tax depreciation we could deduct over the tax life of the acquired properties, and may require that we agree to restrictions on our ability to dispose of, or refinance the debt on, the acquired properties in order to protect the contributors' ability to defer recognition of taxable gain.  Similarly, we may be required to incur or maintain debt we would otherwise not incur so we can allocate the debt to the contributors to maintain their tax bases.  These restrictions could limit our ability to sell or refinance an asset at a time, or on terms, that would be favorable absent such restrictions.. 15. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Financing. We intend to rely on external sources of capital to fund future capital needs, and if we encounter difficulty in obtaining such capital, we may not be able to meet maturing obligations or make any additional investments.. In order to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, we are required, among other things, to distribute annually to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (which does not equal net income as calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP), determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding any net capital gain.  Because of this dividend requirement, we may not be able to fund from cash retained from operations all of our future capital needs, including capital needed to refinance maturing obligations or make investments.. Market volatility and disruption could hinder our ability to obtain new debt financing or refinance our maturing debt on favorable terms or at all or to raise debt and equity capital.  Our access to capital will depend upon a number of factors, including:. • general market conditions;. • the market's perception of our future growth potential;. • the extent of investor interest;. • analyst reports about us and the REIT industry;. • the general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies;. • our financial performance and that of our tenants;. • our current debt levels;. • our current and expected future earnings;. • our cash flow and cash dividends, including our ability to satisfy the dividend requirements applicable to REITs; and. • the market price per share of our common stock.. If we are unable to obtain needed capital on satisfactory terms or at all, we may not be able to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature or make any additional investments.. We have substantial amounts of indebtedness outstanding, which may affect our ability to pay dividends, and may expose us to interest rate fluctuation risk and to the risk of default under our debt obligations.. As of December 31, 2017, our aggregate indebtedness was $6.1 billion. We may incur significant additional debt in the future, including borrowings under our Credit Facility, for various purposes including, without limitation, the funding of future acquisitions,  capital improvements and leasing commissions in connection with the repositioning of a property and litigation expenses. At December 31, 2017, we had $2.1 billion of undrawn commitments under our Credit Facility. Our substantial outstanding indebtedness, and the limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements, could have significant adverse consequences, including as follows:. • our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments;. • we may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on satisfactory terms to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements, which could, among other things, adversely affect our ability to capitalize upon any acquisition opportunities or fund capital improvements and leasing commissions;. • we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our original indebtedness;. • payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash resources to make the dividend payments necessary to maintain our REIT qualification or may otherwise impose restrictions on our ability to make distributions;. • we may be forced to dispose of properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms;. • we may violate restrictive covenants in our loan documents, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate our debt obligations;. • certain of the property subsidiaries' loan documents may include restrictions on such subsidiary's ability to make dividends to us;. • we may be unable to hedge floating-rate debt, counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under our hedge agreements, these agreements may not effectively hedge interest rate fluctuation risk, and, upon the expiration of any hedge agreements, we would be exposed to then-existing market rates of interest and future interest rate volatility;. 16. Table of Contents. • we may default on our obligations and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our properties that secure their loans and exercise their rights under any assignment of rents and leases;. • we may be vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and. • we may be at a disadvantage compared to our competitors with less indebtedness.. If we default under a loan or indenture (including any default in respect of the financial maintenance and negative covenants contained in the Credit Agreement, or the indenture governing the Senior Notes, we may automatically be in default under any other loan or indenture that has cross-default provisions (including the credit agreement (the \"Credit Agreement\")), dated June 30, 2014, as amended, with Wells Fargo Bank National Association, as administrative agent, and other lender parties thereto, governing the Credit Facility), and (x) further borrowings under the Credit Facility will be prohibited, and outstanding indebtedness under the Credit Facility, and our indenture (including the indenture governing the Senior Notes) or such other loans may be accelerated and (y) to the extent any such debt is secured, directly or indirectly, by any properties or assets, the lenders may foreclose on the properties or assets securing such indebtedness.. In addition, increases in interest rates may impede our operating performance and payments of required debt service obligations or amounts due at maturity, or creation of additional reserves under loan agreements or indentures, could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. Further, any foreclosure on our properties could create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, which could adversely affect our ability to meet the REIT dividend requirements imposed by the Internal Revenue Code.. The indenture governing our Senior Notes and the Credit Agreement contain restrictive covenants that limit our operating flexibility.. The indenture governing our Senior Notes and the Credit Agreement require us to meet customary negative covenants and other financial and operating covenants.  The indenture governing our Senior Notes requires us to maintain financial ratios for total leverage, secured debt, debt service coverage and total unencumbered assets.  In addition, the Credit Agreement requires us, among other things, to maintain a minimum tangible net worth, a maximum leverage ratio, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, a secured leverage ratio, a total unencumbered asset value ratio, a minimum encumbered interest coverage ratio and a minimum encumbered asset value. These covenants restrict our ability to incur secured or unsecured indebtedness and may also restrict our ability to engage in certain business activities.. Our ability to comply with these and other provisions of the indenture governing our Senior Notes and the Credit Agreement may be affected by changes in our operating and financial performance, changes in general business and economic conditions, adverse regulatory developments or other events adversely impacting us. Any failure to comply with these covenants would constitute a default under the indenture governing our Senior Notes and/or the Credit Agreement, as applicable, and would prevent further borrowings under the Credit Agreement and could cause those and other obligations to become due and payable.  If any of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay it.. Our organizational documents have no limitation on the amount of indebtedness that we may incur.  As a result, we may become more highly leveraged in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition.. Our business strategy contemplates the use of both secured and unsecured debt to finance long-term growth.  While we intend to limit our indebtedness, our organizational documents contain no limitations on the amount of debt that we may incur.  Further, our financing decisions and related decisions regarding levels of debt may be determined by our Board of Directors in its discretion without stockholder approval.  As a result, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt, including secured debt, in the future, subject to us meeting the financial and operating covenants described above, which could result in us becoming more highly leveraged and adversely affecting our financial condition.. Increases in interest rates would increase our debt service obligations and may adversely affect the refinancing of our existing debt and our ability to incur additional debt, which could adversely affect our financial condition.. Certain of our borrowings bear interest at variable rates, and we may incur additional variable-rate debt in the future. Increases in interest rates would result in higher interest expenses on our existing unhedged variable rate debt, and increase the costs of refinancing existing debt or incurring new debt.  Additionally, increases in interest rates may result in a decrease in the value of our real estate and decrease the market price of our capital stock and could accordingly adversely affect our financial condition.. 17. Table of Contents. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations.. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, and to fund our operations, working capital and capital expenditures, depends on our ability to generate cash.  To a certain extent, our cash flow is subject to general economic, industry, financial, competitive, operating, legislative, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future sources of cash will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay amounts due on our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs.. Additionally, if we incur additional indebtedness in connection with any future acquisitions or development projects or for any other purpose, our debt service obligations could increase.  We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness before maturity.  Our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing will depend on, among other things:. • our financial condition and market conditions at the time;. • restrictions in the agreements governing our indebtedness;. • general economic and capital market conditions;. • the availability of credit from banks or other lenders;. • investor confidence in us; and. • our results of operations.. As a result, we may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.  If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and additional borrowings or refinancings or proceeds of asset sales or other sources of cash are not available to us, we may not have sufficient cash to enable us to meet all of our obligations.  Accordingly, if we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as seeking additional equity, or delaying any strategic acquisitions and alliances or capital expenditures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Adverse changes in our credit ratings could affect our borrowing capacity and borrowing terms.. Our Senior Notes are periodically rated by nationally recognized credit rating agencies.  Our current corporate credit and issue-level ratings for our Senior Notes are \"BBB-\" with a \"stable\" outlook from Standard & Poor's Rating Services.  Our corporate credit and issue-level ratings for our Senior Notes are \"Baa3\" with a \"stable\" outlook assigned by Moody's Investor Service, Inc. Our corporate credit and issue-level ratings for our Senior Notes are \"BBB-\" with a \"stable\" outlook assigned by Fitch Ratings, Inc. The credit ratings are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position, and other factors viewed by the credit rating agencies as relevant to our industry and the economic outlook in general.  Our credit ratings can adversely affect the cost and availability of capital, as well as the terms of any financing we obtain.  Since we depend in part on debt financing to fund our business, an adverse change in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and the trading price of our Senior Notes.. Risks Related to Equity. The Board of Directors may create and issue a class or series of common or preferred stock without stockholder approval.. Subject to applicable legal and regulatory requirements, the Board of Directors is empowered under our charter to amend our charter from time to time to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of our stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue, to designate and issue from time to time one or more classes or series of stock and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock without stockholder approval. The Board of Directors may determine the relative preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or other distributions, qualifications or terms or conditions of redemption of any class or series of stock issued.  As a result, we may issue series or classes of stock with voting rights, rights to dividends or other rights, senior to the rights of holders of our outstanding capital stock.  The issuance of any such stock could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders.  In addition, future sales of shares of our common stock or preferred stock may be dilutive to existing stockholders.. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations.. The sales price of our common stock on the NYSE has fluctuated in recent quarters. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including as a result of future offerings of our securities, as a result of the events described in this \"Risk Factors\" section or in our future filings with the SEC, and as a result of changes to our dividend yield relative to yields on other financial instruments (e.g., increases in interest rates resulting in higher yields on other financial instruments may adversely. 18. Table of Contents. affect the sales price of our common stock). In addition, the trading volume and price of our common stock may fluctuate and be adversely impacted in response to a number of factors, including:. • actual or anticipated variations in our operating results, earnings, or liquidity, or those of our competitors;. • changes in our dividend policy;. • publication of research reports about us, our competitors, our tenants, or the REIT industry;. • changes in market valuations of companies similar to us;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • our failure to meet, or changes to, our earnings estimates, or those of any securities analysts;. • increases in market interest rates;. • adverse market reaction to the amount of or the maturity of our debt and our ability to refinance such debt and the terms thereof;. • adverse market reaction to any additional indebtedness we incur or equity or securities we may issue;. • changes in our credit ratings;. • changes in our key management;. • the financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, and prospects of our tenants;. • litigation and government investigations;. • failure to maintain our REIT qualification; and. •general market and economic conditions, including the current state of the credit and capital markets.. The issuance of additional equity securities may dilute existing equity holders.. Giving effect to the issuance of common stock in future potential offerings, the receipt of future potential net proceeds and the use of those proceeds, additional equity offerings may have a dilutive effect on our expected earnings per share. Additionally, we are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities in the future. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that such sales could occur.. Future offerings of debt, which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation, or preferred equity securities that may be senior to our common stock for purposes of dividend distributions or upon liquidation, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. In the future, we may issue debt or preferred equity securities. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings, including offerings of convertible preferred stock, may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or otherwise reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. Preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on distribution payments that could limit our ability to make distributions to holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their stock holdings in us.. The change of control conversion feature of the Series F Preferred Stock may make it more difficult for a party to take over the Company or discourage a party from taking over the Company.. Upon the occurrence of a change of control (as defined in the Articles Supplementary for the Series F Preferred Stock) the result of which is that our common stock or the common securities of the acquiring or surviving entity are not listed on a national stock exchange, holders of the Series F Preferred Stock will have the right (unless, prior to the change of control conversion date, we have provided or provide notice of our election to redeem the Series F Preferred Stock) to convert some or all of their Series F Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock (or equivalent value of alternative consideration).  The change of control conversion feature of the Series F Preferred Stock may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for the Company or of delaying, deferring or preventing certain change of control transactions of the Company under circumstances that stockholders may otherwise believe are in their best interests.. 19. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to our Real Estate Investments. Because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities.. Environmental laws regulate, and impose liability for, releases of hazardous or toxic substances into the environment.  Under various provisions of these laws, an owner or operator of real estate, such as us, is or may be liable for costs related to soil or groundwater contamination on, in, or migrating to or from its property.  In addition, persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may be liable for the costs of cleaning up contamination at the disposal site.  Such laws often impose liability regardless of whether the person knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances that caused the contamination.  The presence of, or contamination resulting from, any of these substances, or the failure to properly remediate them, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease our property or to borrow using such property as collateral.  In addition, persons exposed to hazardous or toxic substances may sue us for personal injury damages.  As a result, in connection with our current or former ownership, operation, management and development of real properties, we may be potentially liable for investigation and cleanup costs, penalties, and damages under environmental laws.. Although our properties are generally subjected to preliminary environmental assessments, known as Phase I assessments, by independent environmental consultants that identify certain liabilities, Phase I assessments are limited in scope, and may not include or identify all potential environmental liabilities or risks associated with the property.  Further, any environmental liabilities that arose since the date the studies were done would not be identified in the assessments.  Unless required by applicable laws or regulations, we may not further investigate, remedy or ameliorate the liabilities disclosed in the Phase I assessments.. We cannot assure you that these or other environmental studies identified all potential environmental liabilities, or that we will not incur material environmental liabilities in the future.  If we do incur material environmental liabilities in the future, we may face significant remediation costs, and we may find it difficult to finance or sell any affected properties.. We are subject to risks relating to mortgage, bridge or mezzanine loans.. Investing in mortgage, bridge or mezzanine loans involves risk of defaults on those loans caused by many conditions beyond our control, including local and other economic conditions affecting real estate values and interest rate levels.  If there are defaults under these loans, we may not be able to repossess and sell quickly any properties securing such loans.  An action to foreclose on a property securing a loan is regulated by state statutes and regulations and is subject to many of the delays and expenses of any lawsuit brought in connection with the foreclosure if the defendant raises defenses or counterclaims.  In the event of default by a mortgagor, these restrictions, among other things, may impede our ability to foreclose on or sell the mortgaged property or to obtain proceeds sufficient to repay all amounts due to us on the loan, which could reduce the value of our investment in the defaulted loan.. We are subject to risks relating to real estate-related securities, including commercial mortgage backed securities (\"CMBS\").. Real estate-related securities are often unsecured and also may be subordinated to other obligations of the issuer.  As a result, investments in real estate-related securities may be subject to risks of (1) limited liquidity in the secondary trading market in the case of unlisted or thinly traded securities, (2) substantial market price volatility resulting from changes in prevailing interest rates in the case of traded equity securities, (3) subordination to the prior claims of banks and other senior lenders to the issuer, (4) the operation of mandatory sinking fund or call/redemption provisions during periods of declining interest rates that could cause the issuer to reinvest redemption proceeds in lower yielding assets, (5) the possibility that earnings of the issuer or that income from collateral may be insufficient to meet debt service and distribution obligations and (6) the declining creditworthiness and potential for insolvency of the issuer during periods of rising interest rates and economic slowdown or downturn. These risks may adversely affect the value of outstanding real estate-related securities and the ability of the obliged parties to repay principal and interest or make distribution payments.. CMBS are securities that evidence interests in, or are secured by, a single commercial mortgage loan or a pool of commercial mortgage loans.  Accordingly, these securities are subject to the risks listed above and all of the risks of the underlying mortgage loans.  CMBS are issued by investment banks and non-regulated financial institutions, and are not insured or guaranteed by the U.S. government. The value of CMBS may change due to shifts in the market's perception of issuers and regulatory or tax changes adversely affecting the mortgage securities market as a whole and may be negatively impacted by any dislocation in the mortgage-backed securities market in general.. CMBS are also subject to several risks created through the securitization process.  Subordinate CMBS are paid interest only to the extent that there are funds available to make payments.  To the extent the collateral pool includes delinquent loans, there is a risk that interest payments on subordinate CMBS will not be fully paid.  Subordinate CMBS are also subject to greater credit. 20. Table of Contents. risk than those CMBS that are more highly rated.  In certain instances, third-party guarantees or other forms of credit support can reduce the credit risk.. Our build-to-suit acquisitions are subject to additional risks related to properties under development.. From time to time, we engage in build-to-suit acquisitions and the acquisition of properties under development.  In connection with these businesses, we enter into purchase and sale arrangements with sellers or developers of suitable properties under development or construction.  In such cases, we are generally obligated to purchase the property at the completion of construction, provided that the construction conforms to definitive plans, specifications, and costs approved by us in advance, and if other conditions have been met such as there is an effective lease for the property, the tenant has accepted the property and commenced paying rent. We may also engage in development and construction activities involving existing properties, including the expansion of existing facilities (typically at the request of a tenant) or the development or build-out of vacant space at retail properties. We may advance significant amounts in connection with certain development projects.. As a result, we are subject to potential development risks and construction delays and the resultant increased costs and risks, as well as the risk of loss of certain amounts that we have advanced should a development project not be completed.  To the extent that we engage in development or construction projects, we may be subject to uncertainties associated with obtaining permits or re-zoning for development, environmental and land use concerns of governmental entities and/or community groups, and the builder's ability to build in conformity with plans, specifications, budgeted costs and timetables.  If a developer or builder fails to perform, we may terminate the purchase, modify the construction contract or resort to legal action to compel performance (or in certain cases, we may elect to take over the project and pursue completion of the project ourselves).  A developer's or builder's performance may also be affected or delayed by conditions beyond that party's control.  Delays in obtaining permits or completion of construction could also give tenants the right to terminate preconstruction leases.. We may incur additional risks if we make periodic progress payments or other advances to builders before they complete construction.  These and other such factors can result in increased project costs or the loss of our investment. Although we rarely engage in construction activities relating to space that is not already leased to one or more tenants, to the extent that we do so, we may be subject to normal lease-up risks relating to newly constructed projects. We also will rely on rental income and expense projections and estimates of the fair market value of property upon completion of construction when agreeing upon a price at the time we acquire the property. If these projections are inaccurate, we may pay too much for a property and our return on our investment could suffer. If we contract with a development company for a newly developed property, there is a risk that money advanced to that development company for the project may not be fully recoverable if the developer fails to successfully complete the project.. Risks Related to the Services Agreement. Our continuing obligation to provide services to Cole Capital under the Services Agreement could have an adverse effect on our business operations.. In connection with the closing of the Cole Capital sale, we entered into the Services Agreement, pursuant to which we will continue to provide certain services, including operational real estate support, through March 31, 2019 (or, if later, the date of the last government filing other than a tax filing made by any of the Cole REITs with respect to its 2018 fiscal year) and will provide consulting and research services through December 31, 2023 as requested by CCA. Under the terms of the Services Agreement, we will be entitled to receive reimbursement for certain of the services provided and fees based on the future revenues of CCA above a specified dollar threshold (the \"Net Revenue Payments\"), up to an aggregate of $80.0 million in Net Revenue Payments. There is no assurance that we will be successful in managing these services so that they do not have an adverse effect on our business operations and there can be no assurance that we will receive any Net Revenue Payments after February 1, 2018, under the Services Agreement.. We are subject to conflicts of interest relating to the Cole REITs.. During the initial term of the Services Agreement, property acquisition opportunities will be allocated among us and the real estate programs sponsored by CCA pursuant to an asset allocation policy and in accordance with the terms of the Services Agreement.  The Cole REITs have characteristics, including targeted investment types, and investment objectives and criteria substantially similar to our own. As a result, we may be seeking to acquire properties and real estate-related investments at the same time as the Cole REITs.. During the initial term of the Services Agreement, in the event that an investment opportunity is identified that may be suitable for more than one of us or the other programs sponsored by CCA and for which more than one of such entities has sufficient uninvested funds, then an allocation committee, which is comprised of employees of the Company and employees of CIM Group,. 21. Table of Contents. LLC, CCA or their respective affiliates, will examine the following factors, among others, in determining the entity for which the investment opportunity is most appropriate:. • the investment objective of each entity;. • the anticipated operating cash flows of each entity and the cash requirements of each entity;. • the effect of the acquisition both on diversification of each entity's investments by type of property, geographic area and tenant concentration;. • the amount of funds available to each entity and the length of time such funds have been available for investment;. • the policy of each entity relating to leverage of properties;. • the income tax effects of the purchase to each entity; and. • the size of the investment.. If, in the judgment of the allocation committee, the investment opportunity may be equally appropriate for more than one program, then the entity that has had the longest period of time elapse since it was allocated an investment opportunity of a similar size and type (e.g., office, industrial, retail properties or anchored shopping centers) will be allocated such investment opportunity.  If a subsequent development, such as a delay in the closing of the acquisition or a delay in the construction of a property, causes any such investment, in the opinion of the allocation committee, to be more appropriate for an entity other than the entity that committed to make the investment, the allocation committee may determine that the Company or a program sponsored by CCA will make the investment.. For programs sponsored by CCA that commenced operations on or after March 5, 2013, the Company retains a right of first refusal for all opportunities to acquire real estate and real estate-related assets or portfolios with a purchase price greater than $100 million. This right of first refusal applies to CCIT II, CCIT III and CCPT V, but does not apply to CCPT IV or INAV.. There can be no assurance that these policies will be adequate to address all of the conflicts that may arise or will address such conflicts in a manner that is favorable to us.. Risks Related to our Organization and Structure. We are a holding company with no direct operations.  As a result, we rely on funds received from the Operating Partnership to pay liabilities and dividends, our stockholders' claims will be structurally subordinated to all liabilities of the Operating Partnership and our stockholders do not have any voting rights with respect to the Operating Partnership's activities, including the issuance of additional OP Units.. We are a holding company and conduct all of our operations through the Operating Partnership.  We do not have, apart from our ownership of the Operating Partnership, any independent operations.  As a result, we rely on distributions from the Operating Partnership to pay any dividends we might declare on shares of our common stock.  We also rely on distributions from the Operating Partnership to meet our debt service and other obligations, including our obligations to make distributions required to maintain our REIT qualification.  The ability of subsidiaries of the Operating Partnership to make distributions to the Operating Partnership, and the ability of the Operating Partnership to make distributions to us in turn, will depend on their operating results and on the terms of any loans that encumber the properties owned by them. Such loans may contain lockbox arrangements, reserve requirements, financial covenants and other provisions that restrict the distribution of funds.  In the event of a default under these loans, the defaulting subsidiary would be prohibited from distributing cash.  As a result, a default under any of these loans by the borrower subsidiaries could cause us to have insufficient cash to make distributions on our common stock required to maintain our REIT qualification.. In addition, because we are a holding company, stockholders' claims will be structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations (whether or not for borrowed money) of the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries.  Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, claims of our stockholders will be satisfied only after all of our and the Operating Partnership's and its subsidiaries' liabilities and obligations have been paid in full.. As of December 31, 2017, we owned approximately 97.6% of the OP Units in the Operating Partnership. However, the Operating Partnership may issue additional OP Units in the future.  Such issuances could reduce our ownership percentage in the Operating Partnership.  Because our stockholders would not directly own any such OP Units, they would not have any voting rights with respect to any such issuances or other partnership-level activities of the Operating Partnership.. 22. Table of Contents. Our charter and bylaws and Maryland law contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change of control transaction.. Our charter, subject to certain exceptions, limits any person to actual or constructive ownership of no more than 9.8% in value of the aggregate of our outstanding shares of stock and not more than 9.8% (in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of any class or series of our shares of stock. In addition, our charter provides that we may not consolidate, merge, sell all or substantially all of our assets or engage in a share exchange unless such actions are approved by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the Board of Directors.  The ownership limits and the other restrictions on ownership and transfer of our stock and the Board approval requirements contained in our charter may delay or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders.. Certain provisions in the LPA may delay, defer or prevent unsolicited acquisitions of us.. Certain provisions in the LPA may delay or make more difficult unsolicited acquisitions of us or changes in our control. These provisions could discourage third parties from making such proposals, although some stockholders might consider such proposals, if made, desirable.  These provisions include, among others:. • redemption rights of qualifying parties;. • the ability of the General Partner in some cases to amend the LPA without the consent of the limited partners;. • the right of the limited partners to consent to transfers of the general partnership interest of the General Partner and mergers or consolidations of the Company under specified limited circumstances; and. • restrictions relating to our qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code.. The LPA also contains other provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders.. Tax protection provisions on certain properties could limit our operating flexibility.. We have agreed with ARC Real Estate Partners, LLC, an affiliate of ARC Properties Advisors, LLC (the \"Former Manager\"), to indemnify it against any adverse tax consequences if we were to sell, convey, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or any portion of the interests in the properties that were acquired by us in our formation transactions, in a taxable transaction.  These tax protection provisions apply until September 6, 2021, which is the 10th anniversary of the closing of our initial public offering (\"IPO\").  Although it may be in our stockholders' best interest that we sell one or more of these properties, it may be economically disadvantageous for us to do so because of these obligations. We have also agreed to make debt available for ARC Real Estate Partners, LLC to guarantee.  We agreed to these provisions at the time of our IPO in order to assist ARC Real Estate Partners, LLC in preserving its tax position after its contribution of its interests in our initial properties.  As a result, we may be required to incur and maintain more debt than we would otherwise.. The Company's fiduciary duties as sole general partner of the Operating Partnership could create conflicts of interest.. The Company has fiduciary duties to the Operating Partnership and the limited partners in the Operating Partnership, the discharge of which may conflict with the interests of its stockholders.  The LPA provides that, in the event of a conflict between the duties owed by the Company's directors to the Company and the duties that the Company owes in its capacity as the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership to the Operating Partnership's limited partners, the Company's directors are under no obligation to give priority to the interests of such limited partners.  As a holder of OP Units, the Company will have the right to vote on certain amendments to the LPA (which require approval by a majority in interest of the limited partners, including the Company) and individually to approve certain amendments that would adversely affect the rights of the Operating Partnership's limited partners, as well as the right to vote on mergers and consolidations of the Company in its capacity as sole general partner of the Operating Partnership in certain limited circumstances.  These voting rights may be exercised in a manner that conflicts with the interests of the Company's stockholders.  For example, the Company cannot adversely affect the limited partners' rights to receive distributions, as set forth in the LPA, without their consent, even though modifying such rights might be in the best interest of the Company's stockholders generally.. The Board of Directors may change significant corporate policies without stockholder approval.. Our investment, financing, borrowing and dividend policies and our policies with respect to other activities, including growth, debt, capitalization and operations, will be determined by the Board of Directors.  These policies may be amended or revised at any time and from time to time at the discretion of the Board of Directors without a vote of our stockholders.  In addition, the Board of Directors may change our policies with respect to conflicts of interest provided that such changes are consistent with applicable legal requirements.  A change in these policies could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity. 23. Table of Contents. and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to make distributions to our stockholders and unitholders.. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited under Maryland law.. Maryland law provides that a director or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances.  In addition, Maryland law permits a Maryland corporation to include in its charter a provision limiting the liability of its directors and officers to the corporation and its stockholders for money damages except for liability resulting from (1) actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services or (2) active and deliberate dishonesty established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action.  Our charter contains such a provision and limits the liability of our directors and officers to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Maryland law requires us to indemnify our directors and officers for liability actually incurred in connection with any proceeding to which they may be made, or threatened to be made, a party, except to the extent that the act or omission of the director or officer was material to the matter giving rise to the proceeding and was either committed in bad faith or was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty, the director or officer actually received an improper personal benefit in money, property or services, or, in the case of any criminal proceeding, the director or officer had reasonable cause to believe that the act or omission was unlawful.  As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist under common law.  In addition, our charter obligates us to advance the reasonable defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. Finally, we have entered into agreements with our directors and officers pursuant to which we have agreed to indemnify them to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law.. U.S. Federal Income and Other Tax Risks. Our failure to remain qualified as a REIT would subject us to U.S. federal income tax and potentially state and local tax, and would adversely affect our operations and the market price of our capital stock.. We elected to be taxed as a REIT commencing with the taxable year ended December 31, 2011 and believe we have operated, and intend to operate, in a manner that has allowed us to qualify as a REIT and will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT.  However, we may terminate our REIT qualification if the Board of Directors determines that not qualifying as a REIT is in our best interests, or the qualification may be terminated inadvertently.  Our qualification as a REIT depends upon our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis.  We structured our activities in a manner designed to satisfy the requirements for qualification as a REIT.  However, the REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex and interpretation of the U.S. federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT is limited.  Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we have been or will be successful in qualifying to be taxed as a REIT.  Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends on our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals.  Our compliance with the annual income and quarterly asset requirements also depends on our ability to successfully manage the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis.  Accordingly, if certain of our operations were to be recharacterized by the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\"), such recharacterization would jeopardize our ability to satisfy the requirements for qualification as a REIT.  Furthermore, future legislative, judicial or administrative changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws could result in our disqualification as a REIT for past or future periods.. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates.  In addition, we would generally be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year of losing our REIT qualification.  Losing our REIT qualification would reduce our net earnings because of the additional tax liability.  In addition, distributions to stockholders would no longer qualify for the dividends paid deduction, and we would no longer be required to make distributions and, accordingly, distributions the Operating Partnership makes to its unitholders could be similarly reduced.  If this occurs, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax.. 24. Table of Contents. Even if we continue to qualify as a REIT, in certain circumstances, we may incur tax liabilities that would reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders and unitholders.. Even if we continue to qualify as a REIT, we may be subject to U.S. federal, state and local income taxes.  For example, net income from the sale of properties that are considered held for sale and not for investment (a \"prohibited transaction\" under the Internal Revenue Code) will be subject to a 100% tax.  In addition, we may not make sufficient distributions to avoid income and excise taxes on retained income.  We also may decide to retain net capital gain we earn from the sale or other disposition of our property or other assets and pay U.S. federal income tax directly on such income.  In that event, our stockholders would be treated for federal income tax purposes as if they earned that income and paid the tax on it directly.  However, stockholders that are tax-exempt, such as charities or qualified pension plans, would have no benefit from their deemed payment of such tax liability unless they file U.S. federal income tax returns and thereon seek a refund of such tax.  We may, in certain circumstances, be required to pay an excise or penalty tax (which could be significant in amount) in order to utilize one or more relief provisions under the Internal Revenue Code to maintain our qualification as a REIT.. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs.  Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS of the REIT.  A TRS may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT.  We may use TRSs generally to hold properties for sale in the ordinary course of business or to hold assets or conduct activities that we cannot conduct directly as a REIT.  Our TRSs will be subject to applicable U.S. federal, state, local and foreign income tax on their taxable income.  In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to ensure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation.  These rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm's-length basis.. Not all taxing jurisdictions recognize the favorable tax treatment afforded to REITs under the Internal Revenue Code.  As such, we may be subject to regular corporate net income taxes in certain state, local or foreign taxing jurisdictions.  In addition, we, the Operating Partnership, our TRSs, and/or other entities through which we conduct our business may also be subject to state, local or foreign income, franchise, sales, transfer, excise or other taxes.  Any taxes that we incur directly or indirectly will reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders and unitholders.  Additionally, changes in state, local or foreign tax law could reduce the cash flow from certain investments made by us and could make such investments less attractive to potential buyers when we seek to liquidate such investments.. To qualify as a REIT we must meet annual distribution requirements, which may force us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities or borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions.  This could delay or hinder our ability to meet our investment objectives and reduce your overall return.. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute annually to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (which does not equal net income as calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP), determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding any net capital gain.  We will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our undistributed taxable income and net capital gain and to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on any amount by which dividends we pay with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of (a) 85% of our ordinary income, (b) 95% of our capital gain net income and (c) 100% of our undistributed income from prior years.  These requirements could cause us to distribute amounts that otherwise would be spent on investments in real estate assets and it is possible that we might be required to borrow funds, possibly at unfavorable rates, or sell assets to fund these dividends or make taxable stock dividends.  Although we intend to make distributions sufficient to meet the annual distribution requirements and to avoid U.S. federal income and excise taxes on our earnings while we qualify as a REIT, it is possible that we might not always be able to do so.. If the Operating Partnership or certain other subsidiaries fail to qualify as a partnership or are not otherwise disregarded for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then we would cease to qualify as a REIT.. We intend to maintain the status of the Operating Partnership as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  However, if the IRS were to successfully challenge the status of the Operating Partnership as a partnership for such purposes, it would be taxable as a corporation.  This would result in our failure to qualify as a REIT and would cause us to be subject to a corporate-level tax on our income.  This would substantially reduce our cash available to pay distributions and the yield on your investments.  In addition, if one or more of the partnerships or limited liability companies through which the Operating Partnership owns its properties, in whole or in part, loses its characterization as a partnership and is otherwise not disregarded for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then it would be subject to taxation as a corporation, thereby reducing distributions to the Operating Partnership.  Such a recharacterization of a subsidiary entity could also threaten our ability to maintain our REIT qualification.. 25. Table of Contents. Recent legislation substantially modified the taxation of REITs and their shareholders, and the effects of such legislation and related regulatory action are uncertain.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law H.R. 1, informally titled the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\"). The TCJA makes major changes to the Code, including a number of provisions of the Code that affect the taxation of REITs and their stockholders.  Among the changes made by the TCJA are permanently reducing the generally applicable corporate tax rate, generally reducing the tax rate applicable to individuals and other non-corporate taxpayers for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026, eliminating or modifying certain previously allowed deductions (including substantially limiting interest deductibility and, for individuals, the deduction for non-business state and local taxes), and, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026, providing for preferential rates of taxation through a deduction of up to 20% (subject to certain limitations) on most ordinary REIT dividends and certain trade or business income of non-corporate taxpayers.  The TCJA also imposes new limitations on the deduction of net operating losses and requires us to recognize income for tax purposes no later than when we take it into account on our financial statements, which may result in us having to make additional taxable distributions to our stockholders in order to comply with REIT distribution requirements or avoid taxes on retained income and gains. The effect of the significant changes made by the TCJA is highly uncertain, and administrative guidance will be required in order to fully evaluate the effect of many provisions. The effect of any technical corrections with respect to the TCJA could have an adverse effect on us or our stockholders.  Investors should consult their tax advisors regarding the implications of the TCJA on their investment in our capital stock.. Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends.. Currently, the maximum U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income payable to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is 20% (not including the net investment income tax).  Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for this reduced rate.  Although this does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our common stock. Pursuant to the TCJA, non-corporate recipients of dividends from a REIT (other than capital gains dividends and dividends eligible for treatment as qualified dividends) may deduct up to 20% of such REIT dividends for taxable years beginning before January 1, 2026. This deduction mitigates but does not eliminate the difference in effective tax rates between REIT dividends and dividends paid by C corporations.. If we were considered to have actually or constructively paid a \"preferential dividend\" to certain of our stockholders, our status as a REIT could be adversely affected.. For our taxable years that ended on or before December 31, 2014, and for any year in which we fail to be a \"publicly offered\" REIT within the meaning of Section 562 of the Code, in order for our distributions to be counted as satisfying the annual distribution requirements for REITs, and to provide us with a REIT-level tax deduction, the distributions could not have been \"preferential dividends.\" We believe we qualify as a publicly offered REIT, but there can be no assurance that we will continue to so qualify. A dividend is not a preferential dividend if the distribution is pro rata among all outstanding shares of stock within a particular class, and in accordance with the preferences among different classes of stock as set forth in our organizational documents.  There is uncertainty as to the IRS's position regarding whether certain arrangements that REITs have with their stockholders could give rise to the inadvertent payment of a preferential dividend.  While we believe that our operations have been structured in such a manner that we will not be treated as inadvertently paying preferential dividends, there is no de minimis or reasonable cause exception with respect to preferential dividends under the Internal Revenue Code.  Therefore, if the IRS were to take the position that we inadvertently paid a preferential dividend prior to January 1, 2015 (or any later year in which we are not a publicly offered REIT), we may be deemed either to (a) have distributed less than 100% of our REIT taxable income and be subject to tax on the undistributed portion, or (b) have distributed less than 90% of our REIT taxable income and our status as a REIT could be terminated for the year in which such determination is made and for the four taxable years following the year of termination if we were unable to cure such failure.. 26. Table of Contents. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge our liabilities effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities.. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to hedge our liabilities.  Any income from a hedging transaction we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes, price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets or to offset certain other positions, if properly identified under applicable Treasury Regulations, does not constitute \"gross income\" for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests.  To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions will likely be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of one or both of the gross income tests.  As a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS.  This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our TRSs would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear.  In addition, losses in a TRS generally will not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward against future taxable income of such TRS.. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to forgo or liquidate otherwise attractive investment opportunities.. To qualify as a REIT, we must ensure that we meet the REIT gross income tests annually and that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets, including certain mortgage loans and certain kinds of mortgage-related securities.  The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and stock of a TRS) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer.  In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and stock of a TRS) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, no more than 20% of the value of our total assets can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs and no more than 25% of the value of our total assets can be represented by certain debt securities of publicly offered REITs.  If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences.  As a result, we may be required to liquidate assets from our portfolio or not make otherwise attractive investments in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT.  These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders.. Re-characterization of sale-leaseback transactions may cause us to lose our REIT status.. We may purchase properties and lease them back to the sellers of such properties. The Internal Revenue Service could challenge our characterization of certain leases in any such sale-leaseback transactions as \"true leases,\" which allows us to be treated as the owner of the property for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In the event that any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and re-characterized as a financing transaction or loan for U.S. federal income tax purposes, deductions for depreciation and cost recovery relating to such property would be disallowed. If a sale-leaseback transaction were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the REIT qualification \"asset tests\" or the \"income tests\" and, consequently, lose our REIT status effective with the year of re-characterization. Alternatively, such a recharacterization could cause the amount of our REIT taxable income to be recalculated, which might also cause us to fail to meet the distribution requirement for a taxable year and thus lose our REIT status.. We may incur adverse tax consequences if ARCT III, CapLease, ARCT IV, Cole or CCPT failed to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. The tax years subsequent to and including the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 remain open to examination by the major taxing jurisdictions to which the OP, the General Partner, American Realty Capital Trust III, Inc. (\"ARCT III\"), CapLease, Inc. (\"CapLease\"), American Realty Capital Trust IV, Inc., (\"ARCT IV\"), Cole Real Estate Investments, Inc. (\"Cole\") and Cole Credit Property Trust, Inc. (\"CCPT\") are subject. If any of ARCT III, CapLease, ARCT IV, Cole or CCPT failed to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes at any time prior to such entity's merger with us, we may inherit significant tax liabilities and could fail to qualify as a REIT.. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could increase our tax liability, reduce our operating flexibility and reduce the market price of our capital stock.. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made in the provisions of U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to investments similar to an investment in shares of our common stock.  Additional changes to the tax laws are likely to continue to occur, and we cannot assure you that any such changes will not adversely affect our taxation and our ability to qualify as a REIT or the taxation of a stockholder.  Any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in our shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our assets.  Our stockholders are urged to consult with their tax advisor. 27. Table of Contents. with respect to the impact of recent legislation on their investment in our shares and the status of legislative, regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in our shares.. Although REITs generally receive better tax treatment than entities taxed as regular corporations, it is possible that future legislation would result in a REIT having fewer tax advantages, and it could become more advantageous for a company that invests in real estate to elect to be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a regular corporation.  As a result, our charter provides the Board of Directors with the power, under certain circumstances, to revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election and cause us to be taxed as a regular corporation, without the vote of our stockholders.  The Board of Directors has fiduciary duties to us and our stockholders and could only cause such changes in our tax treatment if it determines in good faith that such changes are in the best interest of our stockholders.. Non-U.S. stockholders may be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax and may be subject to U.S. federal income tax upon the disposition of our shares.. Gain recognized by a non-U.S. stockholder upon the sale or exchange of our common stock generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxation unless such stock constitutes a \"U.S. real property interest\" (\"USRPI\") under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980 (the \"FIRPTA\"). Our common stock will not constitute a USRPI so long as we are a \"domestically-controlled qualified investment entity.\" A domestically-controlled qualified investment entity includes a REIT if at all times during a specified testing period, less than 50% in value of such REIT's stock is held directly or indirectly by non-U.S. stockholders. We believe that we are a domestically-controlled qualified investment entity. However, because our common stock is and will be publicly traded, no assurance can be given that we are or will be a domestically-controlled qualified investment entity.. Even if we do not qualify as a domestically-controlled qualified investment entity at the time a non-U.S. stockholder sells or exchanges our common stock, gain arising from such a sale or exchange would not be subject to U.S. taxation under FIRPTA as a sale of a USRPI if: (a) our common stock is \"regularly traded,\" as defined by applicable Treasury regulations, on an established securities market, and (b) such non-U.S. stockholder owned, actually and constructively, 10% or less of our common stock at any time during the five-year period ending on the date of the sale. We anticipate that our shares will be \"regularly traded\" on an established securities market for the foreseeable future, although, no assurance can be given that this will be the case. We encourage you to consult your tax advisor to determine the tax consequences applicable to you if you are a non-U.S. stockholder.. Our property taxes could increase due to property tax rate changes or reassessment, which would impact our cash flows.. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay some state and local taxes on our properties. The real property taxes on our properties may increase as property tax rates change or as our properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. Therefore, the amount of property taxes we pay in the future may increase substantially. If the property taxes we pay increase and if any such increase is not reimbursable under the terms of our lease, then our cash flows will be impacted, and our ability to pay expected distributions to our stockholders and unitholders could be adversely affected.. The share ownership restrictions of the Internal Revenue Code for REITs and the 9.8% share ownership limit in our charter may inhibit market activity in our shares of stock and restrict our business combination opportunities.. In order to qualify as a REIT, five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code, may not own, actually or constructively, more than 50% in value of our issued and outstanding shares of stock at any time during the last half of each taxable year, other than the first year for which a REIT election is made.  Attribution rules in the Internal Revenue Code determine if any individual or entity actually or constructively owns our shares of stock under this requirement.  Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our shares of stock during at least 335 days of a taxable year for each taxable year, other than the first year for which a REIT election is made.  To help insure that we meet these tests, among other purposes, our charter restricts the acquisition and ownership of our shares of stock.. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT while we so qualify.  Unless exempted by the Board of Directors, for so long as we qualify as a REIT, our charter prohibits, among other limitations on ownership and transfer of shares of our stock, any person from beneficially or constructively owning (applying certain attribution rules under the Internal Revenue Code) more than 9.8% in value of the aggregate of our outstanding shares of stock and more than 9.8% (in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of any class or series of our shares of stock. The Board of Directors, in its sole discretion and upon receipt of certain representations and undertakings, may exempt a person (prospectively or retrospectively) from the ownership limits.  However, the Board of Directors may not, among other limitations, grant an exemption from these ownership restrictions to any proposed transferee whose ownership, direct or indirect, in excess of the 9.8% ownership limit would result in the termination of our qualification as a REIT.  These restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply, however, if the Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT or that compliance with the restrictions is no longer required in order for us. 28. Table of Contents. to continue to so qualify as a REIT. These ownership limits could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders."
