[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information contained in this report, in evaluating us and an investment in our common stock.  The risks described below are the material risks, although not the. 8. Table of Contents. only risks, relating to us and our common stock.  If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Risks Relating to Our Business. The industry-wide decline in demand for paper and related products could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our Print and Publishing businesses rely heavily on the sale of paper and related products.  The industry-wide decrease in demand for paper and related products in key markets we serve places continued pressure on our revenues and profit margins and makes it more difficult to maintain or grow earnings.  This trend is expected to continue.  The failure to effectively differentiate us from our competitors in the face of increased use of email, increased and permanent product substitution, including less print advertising, more electronic billing, more e-commerce, fewer catalogs and a reduced volume of mail, could have a material adverse effect on market share, sales and profitability through increased expenditures or decreased prices.  Our failure to grow the Packaging and Facility Solutions businesses at rates adequate to offset the expected decline in Print and Publishing could also have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. Competition in our industry may adversely impact our margins and our ability to retain customers and make it difficult to maintain our market share and profitability.. The business-to-business distribution industry is highly competitive, with numerous regional and local competitors, and is a mature industry characterized by slowing revenue growth.  Our principal competitors include regional and local distributors in the Print segment; regional, national and international paper manufacturers and other merchants and brokers in the Publishing segment; national distributors, national and regional manufacturers and independent brokers in the Packaging segment; and national, regional and local distributors in the Facility Solutions segment. Most of these competitors generally offer a wide range of products at prices comparable to those we offer.  Additionally, new competition could arise from non-traditional sources, group purchasing organizations, e-commerce, discount wholesalers or consolidation among competitors.  New competitive sources may result in increased focus on pricing and on limiting price increases, or may require increased discounting.  Such competition may result in margin erosion or make it difficult to attract and retain customers.. Increased competition within the industry, reduced demand for paper, increased and permanent product substitution through less print advertising, more electronic billing, more e-commerce, fewer catalogs, a reduced volume of mail and general economic conditions has served to further increase pressure on the industry's profit margins, and continued margin pressure within the industry may have a material adverse impact on our operating results and profitability.. Adverse developments in general business and economic conditions as well as conditions in the global capital and credit markets could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and our financial condition and results of operations.. The persistently slow rate of increase in the U.S. gross domestic product (\"GDP\") in recent years has adversely affected our results of operations.  If GDP continues to increase at a slow rate or if economic growth declines, demand for the products we sell will be adversely affected.  In addition, volatility in the global capital and credit markets, which impacts interest rates, currency exchange rates and the availability of credit, could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of our company and our customers.  We have exposure to counterparties with which we routinely execute transactions.  Such counterparties include customers and financial institutions.  A bankruptcy or liquidity event by one or more of our counterparties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In order to compete, we must attract, train and retain highly qualified employees, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. To successfully compete, we must attract, train and retain a large number of highly qualified employees while controlling related labor costs.  Specifically, we must recruit and retain qualified sales professionals.  If we were to lose a significant amount of our sales professionals, we could lose a material amount of sales, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  Many of our sales professionals are subject to confidentiality and non-competition agreements.  If our sales professionals were to violate these agreements, we could seek to legally enforce these agreements, but we may incur substantial costs in connection with such enforcement and may not be successful in such. 9. Table of Contents. enforcement.  We compete with other businesses for employees and invest significant resources in training and motivating them.  There is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified employees.  The inability to retain or hire qualified personnel at economically reasonable compensation levels would restrict our ability to improve our business and result in lower operating results and profitability.. Our business may be adversely affected by work stoppages, union negotiations and labor disputes.. Approximately 10% of our employees are currently covered by collective bargaining or other similar labor agreements.  Historically, the effects of collective bargaining and other similar labor agreements have not been significant.  However, if a larger number of our employees were to unionize, including in the wake of any future legislation or administrative regulation that makes it easier for employees to unionize, the effect may be negative.. Approximately 41% of the Company's unionized employees have collective bargaining agreements that expire during 2018.  Any inability to negotiate acceptable new contracts under these collective bargaining arrangements could cause strikes or other work stoppages, and new contracts could result in increased operating costs.  If any such strikes or other work stoppages occur, or if additional employees become represented by a union, a disruption of our operations and higher labor costs could result.  Labor relations matters affecting our suppliers of products and services could also adversely affect our business from time to time.. The loss of any of our significant customers could adversely affect our financial condition.. Our ten largest customers generated approximately 9% of our consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2017, and our largest customer accounted for approximately 2% of our consolidated net sales in that same period.  We cannot guarantee that we will maintain or improve our relationships with these customers or that we will continue to supply these customers at historic levels.. Generally, our customers are not contractually required to purchase any minimum amount of products.  Should such customers purchase products sold by us in significantly lower quantities than they have in the past, such decreased purchases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. In addition, consolidation among customers could also result in changes to the purchasing habits and volumes among some of our present customers.  The loss of one or more of these significant customers, a significant customer's decision to purchase our products in substantially lower quantities than they have in the past, or a deterioration in the relationship with any of these customers could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Changes in business conditions in our international operations could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our operating results and business prospects could be substantially affected by risks related to Canada, Mexico and other non-U.S. countries where we sell and distribute our products.  Some of our operations are in or near locations that have suffered from political, social and economic issues; civil unrest; and a high level of criminal activity.  In those locations where we have employees or operations, we may incur substantial costs to maintain the safety of our personnel and the security of our operations.  Downturns in economic activity, adverse tax consequences or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of the countries in which we operate could negatively affect our financial results.  In addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under U.S. law and other laws related to operations in foreign jurisdictions.  For example, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the \"FCPA\") prohibits U.S. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad.  Failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions and the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations.. We purchase all of the products we sell to our customers from other parties, and conditions beyond our control can interrupt our supplies and increase our product costs.. As a distributor, we obtain our packaging, paper and facility products from third-party suppliers.  Our business and financial results are dependent on our ability to purchase products from suppliers not controlled by us that we, in turn, sell to our customers.  We may not be able to obtain the products we need on open credit, with market or other favorable terms, or at all.  During the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 38% of our purchases were made from ten suppliers.  A. 10. Table of Contents. sustained disruption in our ability to source products from one or more of the largest of these vendors might have a material impact on our ability to fulfill customer orders resulting in lost sales and, in rare cases, damages for late or non-delivery.. For the most part, we do not have a significant number of long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to provide products to us.  Suppliers may not provide the products and supplies needed in the quantities and at the prices and times requested.  We are also subject to delays caused by interruption in production and increases in product costs based on conditions outside of our control.  These conditions include raw material shortages, environmental restrictions on operations, work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, product recalls, transportation interruptions, unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, competitive demands and natural disasters or other catastrophic events.  Our inability to obtain adequate supplies of paper, packaging and facility products as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could mean that we could not fulfill our obligations to customers, and customers may turn to other distributors.. In addition, increases in product costs may reduce our margins if we are unable to pass all or a portion of these costs along to our customers, which we have historically had difficulty doing.  Any such inability may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability.. Changes in prices for raw materials, including pulp, paper and resin, could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows.. Changes in prices for raw materials, such as pulp, paper and resin, could significantly impact our results of operations in the print market.  Although we do not produce paper products and are not directly exposed to risk associated with production, declines in pulp and paper prices, driven by falling secular demand, periods of industry overcapacity and overproduction by paper suppliers, may adversely affect our revenues and net income to the extent such factors produce lower paper prices.  Declining pulp and paper prices generally produce lower revenues and profits, even when volume and trading margin percentages remain constant.  During periods of declining pulp and paper prices, customers may alter purchasing patterns and defer paper purchases or deplete inventory levels until long-term price stability occurs.  Alternatively, if prices for raw materials rise and we are unable to pass these increases on to our customers, our results of operations and profits may also be negatively impacted.. We may not be able to fully compensate for increases in fuel costs.. Volatile fuel prices have a direct impact on our industry.  The cost of fuel affects the price paid by us for products as well as the costs incurred to deliver products to our customers.  Although we have been able to pass along a portion of increased fuel costs to our customers in the past, there is no guarantee that we can continue to do so.  As such, we may experience difficulties in passing all or a portion of these costs along to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability.. Inclement weather, anti-terrorism measures and other disruptions to the transportation network could impact our distribution system and operations.. Our ability to provide efficient distribution of products to our customers is an integral component of our overall business strategy.  Disruptions at distribution centers or shipping ports or the closure of roads or imposition of other driving bans due to natural events such as flooding, tornadoes and blizzards may affect our ability to both maintain key products in inventory and deliver products to our customers on a timely basis, which may in turn adversely affect our results of operations.. Furthermore, in the aftermath of terrorist attacks in the United States, federal, state and local authorities have implemented and continue to implement various security measures that affect many parts of the transportation network in the U.S. and abroad.  Our customers typically require delivery of products in short time frames and rely on our on-time delivery capabilities.  If security measures disrupt or impede the timing of our deliveries, we may fail to meet the needs of our customers, or may incur increased expenses to do so.  Any of these disruptions to our operations may reduce our sales and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 11. Table of Contents. We are dependent on a variety of IT and telecommunications systems and the Internet, and any failure of these systems could adversely impact our business and operating results.. We depend on information technology (\"IT\") and telecommunications systems and the Internet for our operations.  These systems support a variety of functions including inventory management, order placement and processing with vendors and from customers, shipping, shipment tracking and billing.  Our information systems are vulnerable to natural disasters, wide-area telecommunications or power utility outages, terrorist or cyber-attacks and other major disruptions and our redundant information systems may not operate effectively.. Failures or significant downtime of our IT or telecommunications systems for any reason, including as a result of disruptions from integrating the xpedx and Unisource businesses, could prevent us from taking customer orders, printing product pick-lists, shipping products, billing customers and handling call volume.  Sales also may be adversely impacted if our reseller and retail customers are unable to access pricing and product availability information.  We also rely on the Internet, electronic data interchange and other electronic integrations for a large portion of our orders and information exchanges with our suppliers and customers.  The Internet and individual websites have experienced a number of disruptions and slowdowns, some of which were caused by organized attacks.  In addition, some websites have experienced security breakdowns.  If we were to experience a security breakdown, disruption or breach that compromised sensitive information, it could harm our relationships with our suppliers and customers.  Disruption of our website or the Internet in general could impair our order processing or more generally prevent our suppliers and resellers from accessing information.  Failures of our systems could also lead to delivery delays and may expose us to litigation and penalties under some of our contracts.  Any significant increase in our IT and telecommunications costs or temporary or permanent loss of our IT or telecommunications systems, including as a result of disruptions from integrating the xpedx and Unisource businesses, could harm our relationships with our customers and suppliers and result in lost sales, business delays and bad publicity.  The occurrence of any of these events, as well as the costs we may incur in preventing or responding to such events, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to cyber-security risks related to breaches of security pertaining to sensitive company, customer, employee and vendor information as well as breaches in the technology that manages operations and other business processes.. Our operations rely upon secure IT systems for data capture, processing, storage and reporting.  Our IT systems, and those of our third-party providers, could become subject to cyber-attacks.  Network, system, application and data breaches could result in operational disruptions or information misappropriation including, but not limited to, interruption of systems availability, or denial of access to and misuse of applications required by our customers to conduct business with us.  Access to internal applications required to plan our operations, source materials, ship finished goods and account for orders could be denied or misused.  Theft of intellectual property or trade secrets, and inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, could stem from such incidents.  Any operational disruptions or misappropriation of information could harm our relationship with our customers and suppliers, result in lost sales, business delays and negative publicity and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Costs to comply with environmental, health and safety laws, and to satisfy any liability or obligation imposed under such laws, could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations are subject to U.S. and international environmental, health and safety laws, including laws regulating the emission or discharge of materials into the environment, the use, storage, treatment, disposal and management of hazardous substances and waste, the investigation and remediation of contamination and the health and safety of our employees and the public.  We could incur substantial fines or sanctions, enforcement actions (including orders limiting our operations or requiring corrective measures), investigation, remediation and closure costs and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury as a result of violations of, or liabilities or obligations under, environmental, health and safety laws.  We could be held liable for the costs to address contamination at any real property we have ever owned, operated or used as a disposal site.. In addition, changes in, or new interpretations of, existing laws, the discovery of previously unknown contamination, or the imposition of other environmental liabilities or obligations in the future, may lead to additional compliance or other costs that could impact our business and results of operations.  Moreover, as environmental issues, such as climate change, have become more prevalent, U.S. and foreign governments have responded, and are expected to continue to respond, with. 12. Table of Contents. increased legislation and regulation, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Expenditures related to the cost of compliance with laws, rules and regulations could adversely impact our business and results of operations.. Our operations are subject to U.S. and international laws and regulations, including regulations of the U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, the import and export of goods, customs regulations, Office of Foreign Asset Control and the FCPA.  Expenditures related to the cost of compliance with laws, rules and regulations could adversely impact our business and results of operations.  In addition, we could incur substantial fines or sanctions, enforcement actions (including orders limiting our operations or requiring corrective measures), and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, laws, regulations, codes and common law.. Tax assessments and unclaimed property audits by governmental authorities could adversely impact our operating results.. We remit a variety of taxes and fees to various governmental authorities, including federal and state income taxes, excise taxes, property taxes, sales and use taxes and payroll taxes.  The taxes and fees remitted by us are subject to review and audit by the applicable governmental authorities which could result in liability for additional assessments.  In addition, we are subject to unclaimed property (escheat) laws which require us to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others held by us that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time.  We are subject to audit by individual U.S. states with regard to our escheatment practices.  The legislation and regulations related to tax and unclaimed property matters tend to be complex and subject to varying interpretations by both government authorities and taxpayers.  Although management believes that the positions we have taken are reasonable, various taxing authorities may challenge certain of the positions we have taken, which may also potentially result in additional liabilities for taxes, unclaimed property, interest and penalties in excess of accrued liabilities.  Our positions are reviewed as events occur such as the availability of new information, the lapsing of applicable statutes of limitations, the conclusion of tax audits, the measurement of additional estimated liabilities based on current calculations, the identification of new tax contingencies or the rendering of relevant court decisions.  An unfavorable resolution of assessments by a governmental authority could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods.. Adverse developments in general business and economic conditions, including the industry-wide decline in demand for paper and related products could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations impairing our ability to use Net Operating Loss (\"NOL\") carryforwards and other deferred tax assets.. The realization of our NOLs and other deferred tax assets depends on the timing and amount of taxable income earned by our company in the future and a lack of future taxable income would adversely affect our ability to realize these tax assets.  Tax attributes are generally subject to expiration at various times in the future to the extent that they have not previously been applied to offset the taxable income of our company, and there is a risk that our existing NOL carryforwards could expire unused and be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities.. The Merger resulted in an ownership change for Unisource under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (the \"Code\"), limiting the use of Unisource's NOLs to offset future taxable income for both U.S. federal and state income tax purposes.  Moreover, future trading of our stock by our significant shareholders may result in additional ownership changes as defined under Section 382 of the Code, further limiting the use of Unisource's NOLs. These limitations may affect the availability and the timing of when these NOLs may be used which could impair our deferred tax assets which, in turn, may adversely impact the timing and amount of cash taxes payable by our company.. Significant judgment is required in evaluating the need for and magnitude of appropriate valuation allowances against deferred tax assets. The realization of these assets is dependent on generating future taxable income, as well as successful implementation of various tax planning strategies. Although we believe that the judgments and estimates with respect to the valuation allowances are appropriate and reasonable under the circumstances, actual results could differ from projected results, which could give rise to additions to valuation allowances or reductions in valuation allowances. It is possible that such changes could have a material adverse effect on the amount of income tax expense (benefit) recorded in our consolidated statement of operations.. 13. Table of Contents. Our inability to renew existing leases on acceptable terms, negotiate rent decreases or concessions and identify affordable real estate could adversely affect our operating results.. We may be unable to successfully negotiate or renew existing leases at attractive rents, negotiate rent decreases or concessions or identify affordable real estate.  A key factor in our operating performance is the location and associated real estate costs of our distribution centers.  In particular, approximately 24 of our real estate financing agreements expire in June 2018 which accounted for approximately 20% of our total operating leased square footage as of December 31, 2017.  Our inability to negotiate or renew these or any other leases on favorable terms, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations due to, among other things, any resultant increased lease payments.. Results of legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.. We rely on manufacturers and other suppliers to provide us with the products and equipment we sell, distribute and service.  As we do not have direct control over the quality of the products manufactured or supplied by such third-party suppliers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of the products and equipment we sell, distribute and service.  It is possible that inventory from a manufacturer or supplier could be sold to our customers and later be alleged to have quality problems or to have caused personal injury, subjecting us to potential claims from customers or third parties.  Our ability to hold such manufacturer or supplier liable will depend on a variety of factors, including its financial viability.  Moreover, as we increase the number of private label products we distribute, our exposure to potential liability for product liability claims may increase.  Finally, even if we are successful in defending any claim relating to the products or equipment we distribute, claims of this nature could negatively impact our reputation and customer confidence in our products, equipment and company.  We have been subject to such claims in the past, which have been resolved without material financial impact.  We also operate a significant number of facilities and a large fleet of trucks and other vehicles and therefore face the risk of premises-related liabilities and vehicle-related liabilities including traffic accidents.. From time to time, we may also be involved in government inquiries and investigations, as well as class action, employment and other litigation.  We cannot predict with certainty the outcomes of these legal proceedings and other contingencies, including environmental remediation and other proceedings commenced by government authorities.  The costs and other effects of pending litigation against us cannot be determined with certainty.  There can be no assurance that the outcome of any lawsuit or claim or its effect on our business or financial condition will be as expected.  The defense of these lawsuits and claims may divert our management's attention, and significant expenses may be incurred as a result.  In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Although we currently maintain insurance coverage to address some of these types of liabilities, we cannot make assurances that we will be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, or that any such insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential claims.  In addition, we may choose not to seek to obtain such insurance in the future.  Moreover, indemnification rights that we have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against potential loss exposures.. We may not be able to adequately protect our material intellectual property and other proprietary rights, or to defend successfully against intellectual property infringement claims by third parties.. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part upon our intellectual property rights, including but not limited to trademarks, copyrights and proprietary technology.  The use of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and agreements, and trademark, copyright, unfair competition, trade secret and other laws to protect intellectual property rights and proprietary technology may not be adequate.  Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect proprietary technology, or to defend against claims by third parties that our conduct or our use of intellectual property infringes upon such third-party's intellectual property rights.  Any intellectual property litigation or claims brought against us, whether or not meritorious, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and there can be no assurances that favorable final outcomes will be obtained.  The terms of any settlement or judgment may require us to pay substantial amounts to the other party or cease exercising our rights in such intellectual property, including ceasing the use of certain trademarks used by us to distinguish our services from those of others or ceasing the exercise of our rights in copyrightable works.  In addition, we may be required to seek a license to continue practices found to be in violation of a third-party's rights, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all.  Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected as a result.. 14. Table of Contents. Our pension and health care costs are subject to numerous factors which could cause these costs to change.. Our pension and health care costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience, including, for pension costs, actuarial assumptions regarding life expectancies.  Pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments.  Fluctuations in actual equity market returns, changes in general interest rates and changes in the number of retirees may result in increased pension costs in future periods.  Significant changes in any of these factors may adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.. We participate in multi-employer pension plans and multi-employer health and welfare plans, which could create additional obligations and payment liabilities.. We contribute to multi-employer defined benefit pension plans as well as multi-employer health and welfare plans under the terms of collective bargaining agreements that cover certain unionized employee groups in the United States.  The risks of participating in multi-employer pension plans differ from single employer-sponsored plans and such plans are subject to regulation under the Pension Protection Act (the \"PPA\").  Multi-employer pension plans are cost-sharing plans subject to collective-bargaining agreements.  Contributions to a multi-employer plan by one employer are not specifically earmarked for its employees and may be used to provide benefits to employees of other participating employers.  If a participating employer stops contributing to the plan, the unfunded obligations of the plan are borne by the remaining participating employers.  In addition, if a multi-employer plan is determined to be underfunded based on the criteria established by the PPA, the plan may be required to implement a financial improvement plan or rehabilitation plan that may require additional contributions or surcharges by participating employers.. In addition to the contributions discussed above, we could be obligated to pay additional amounts, known as withdrawal liabilities, upon decrease or cessation of participation in a multi-employer pension plan.  Although an employer may obtain an estimate of such liability, the final calculation of the withdrawal liability may not be able to be determined for an extended period of time.  Generally, the cash obligation of such withdrawal liability is payable over a 20 year period.. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and impair our ability to operate our business.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $934.8 million in total indebtedness, reflecting borrowings of $897.7 million under the asset-based lending facility (the \"ABL Facility\"), $23.6 million of financing obligations (including financing obligations to a related party exclusive of the non-monetary portion) and $13.5 million of equipment capital lease and other obligations.  This level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our financial condition, operating results and business, including the following:. • limiting our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes;. • increasing our cost of borrowing;. • requiring that a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations be dedicated to payments on our indebtedness instead of other purposes, including operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;. • making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness or satisfy other obligations;. • exposing us to risk of (i) increased interest rates on our borrowings in excess of our interest rate cap and (ii) increased interest rates of up to 3% on our borrowings covered by our interest rate cap because all of our borrowings under the ABL Facility are at variable rates of interest;. • limiting our ability to make the expenditures necessary to complete the integration of xpedx's business with Unisource's business;. • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and. • increasing our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, and making us unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth.. 15. Table of Contents. Despite our substantial indebtedness, we may still be able to incur substantially more indebtedness in the future.  This could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above.. We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future, including secured indebtedness.  Although the agreements governing the ABL Facility contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial.  If new indebtedness is added to our current indebtedness levels, the related risks we will face could intensify.. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants, which could restrict our operational flexibility.. The agreements governing the ABL Facility contain restrictions and limitations on our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests, including financial and other restrictive covenants that could limit our ability to:. • incur additional indebtedness or guaranties, or issue certain preferred shares;. • pay dividends, redeem stock or make other distributions;. • repurchase, prepay or redeem subordinated indebtedness;. • make investments or acquisitions;. • create liens;. • make negative pledges;. • consolidate or merge with another company;. • sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;. • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and. • change the nature of our business.. The agreements governing the ABL Facility also contain other restrictions customary for asset-based facilities of this nature.. Our ability to borrow additional amounts under the ABL Facility will depend upon satisfaction of these covenants.  Events beyond our control could affect our ability to meet these covenants.  Our failure to comply with obligations under the agreements governing the ABL Facility may result in an event of default under those agreements.  A default, if not cured or waived, may permit acceleration of our indebtedness.  If our indebtedness is accelerated, we cannot be certain that we will have sufficient funds available to pay the accelerated indebtedness or that we will have the ability to refinance the accelerated indebtedness on terms favorable to us or at all.  This could have serious consequences to our business, financial condition and operating results and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent.. Risks Relating to the Spin-off and Merger. We may not realize the full benefits of the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from the Merger.. The benefits of the Merger depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated growth opportunities, cost savings and other synergies.  Even if we are able to integrate the xpedx and Unisource businesses successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities and cost savings and other synergies that we currently expect from this integration within the anticipated time frame or at all.  We have incurred and will continue to incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of these businesses.  Such expenses may exceed current estimates and accordingly, the full benefits from the Merger may be offset by costs or delays incurred in integrating the businesses.. The integration of the xpedx business with the Unisource business following the Transactions may present significant challenges.. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of integrating the xpedx and Unisource businesses which include the challenge and cost of integrating the IT systems of each company and network optimization.. 16. Table of Contents. The continuation of the integration process may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business and may require us to incur substantial out-of-pocket costs.  Members of our senior management have devoted and will continue to devote considerable amounts of time and attention to the integration process.. We cannot assure you that we will successfully or cost-effectively finalize the integration of the xpedx and Unisource businesses.  The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have incurred and continue to incur significant costs and charges associated with the Transactions that could affect our period-to-period operating results.. Through December 31, 2017, we have incurred approximately $221 million in costs and charges associated with the Transactions, including approximately $82 million for capital expenditures and $25 million related to the complete or partial withdrawal from various multi-employer pension plans. We anticipate that we will incur additional costs and charges associated with the Transactions.  We are not able to quantify the total amount of these costs and charges or the period in which they will be incurred as the operating plans affecting these costs are evolving and most charges relating to the withdrawal from multi-employer pension plans are uncertain.  Excluding the multi-employer pension plan withdrawal charges, we currently anticipate that total net costs and charges associated with the Transactions will be approximately $225 to $250 million through December 31, 2018.  The amount and timing of these costs and charges could adversely affect our period-to-period operating results, which could result in a reduction in the market price of shares of our common stock.  Moreover, delays in completing the integration may reduce or delay the synergies and other benefits expected from the Transactions and such reduction may be material.. If costs to integrate our IT infrastructure and network systems are more than amounts that have been budgeted, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We expect to incur additional costs associated with achieving anticipated cost savings and other synergies from the Transactions.  Some of these costs will consist of information technology infrastructure, systems integration and planning.  The primary areas of spending will be integrating our financial, operational and human resources systems.  We expect that a portion of these expenditures will be capitalized.  Such expenditures and other integration costs could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If the Spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free spin-off under Section 355 of the Code, including as a result of subsequent acquisitions of stock of International Paper or our company, then International Paper and/or the International Paper shareholders may be required to pay substantial U.S. federal income taxes.. In connection with the Transactions, International Paper received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") to the effect that the Spin-off and certain related transactions will qualify as tax-free to International Paper and the International Paper shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  Although a private letter ruling from the IRS generally is binding on the IRS, the IRS ruling does not rule that the Spin-off satisfies every requirement for a tax-free spin-off under Section 355 of the Code, and we and International Paper relied solely on the opinion of counsel for comfort that such additional requirements are satisfied.  We also received an opinion of counsel to the effect that the Spin-off will qualify as tax-free to International Paper and the International Paper shareholders.  This opinion relied on the IRS ruling as to matters covered by the IRS ruling.. The IRS ruling and such opinion were based on, among other things, certain representations and assumptions as to factual matters made by us, International Paper and UWWH, including assumptions concerning Section 355(e) of the Code as discussed below.  The failure of any factual representation or assumption to be true, correct and complete in all material respects could adversely affect the validity of the IRS ruling or such opinion. An opinion of counsel represents counsel's best legal judgment, is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and the IRS or the courts may not agree with the opinion.  In addition, the IRS ruling and such opinion were based on then current law, and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect.. If the Spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free spin-off under Section 355 of the Code, then the receipt of our common stock would be taxable to the International Paper shareholders, International Paper might recognize a substantial gain on the Spin-off, and we may be required to indemnify International Paper for the tax on such gain pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement we entered into with International Paper in connection with the Spin-off.. 17. Table of Contents. In addition, the Spin-off will be taxable to International Paper pursuant to Section 355(e) of the Code if there is a 50% or more change in ownership of either International Paper or our company, directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the Spin-off.  Because the International Paper shareholders collectively owned more than 50% of our common stock upon the Merger, the Merger alone will not cause the Spin-off to be taxable to International Paper under Section 355(e) of the Code.  However, Section 355(e) of the Code might apply if other acquisitions of stock of International Paper before or after the Merger, or of our company after the Merger, are considered to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the Spin-off.  If Section 355(e) of the Code applied, then International Paper might recognize a substantial amount of taxable gain, and we may be required to indemnify International Paper for the tax on such gain pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement.. If the Merger does not qualify as a tax-free reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Code, or if the Subsidiary Merger does not qualify as a transfer of property to Unisource under Section 351(a) of the Code, then we may be required to pay substantial U.S. federal income taxes.. In connection with the Transactions, we received an opinion of counsel to the effect that the Merger will qualify as a tax-free reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Code and UWWH received an opinion of counsel to the effect that the merger of xpedx Intermediate with and into Unisource (the \"Subsidiary Merger\" and, collectively with the Merger the \"Mergers\") will qualify as a transfer of property to Unisource under Section 351(a) of the Code.  In addition, International Paper received private letter rulings from the IRS to the effect that the Merger will qualify as a tax-free reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Code and that the Subsidiary Merger will qualify as a transfer of property to Unisource under Section 351(a) of the Code.  Although a private letter ruling from the IRS generally is binding on the IRS, the IRS rulings do not rule that the Merger satisfies every requirement for a tax-free reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Code, or that the Subsidiary Merger satisfies every requirement for a transfer of property to Unisource under Section 351(a) of the Code.  The parties involved have each relied on an opinion of counsel for comfort that such additional requirements are satisfied.. The IRS rulings and such opinions were based on, among other things, certain representations and assumptions as to factual matters made by us, International Paper and UWWH.  The failure of any factual representation or assumption to be true, correct and complete in all material respects could adversely affect the validity of the respective IRS rulings and such opinions.  An opinion of counsel represents counsel's best legal judgment, is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and the IRS or the courts may not agree with the opinion.  In addition, the IRS rulings and such opinions were based on then current law, and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect.. If the Merger does not qualify as a tax-free reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Code, then UWWH would be considered to have made a taxable sale of its assets to us and we would be required to pay the U.S. federal income tax on the gain, if any, arising from such taxable sale as a result of being the surviving corporation in the Merger.. If the Subsidiary Merger does not qualify as a transfer of property to Unisource under Section 351(a) of the Code, then we would be considered to have made a taxable sale of the assets of xpedx Intermediate to Unisource, and we may either be required to pay the U.S. federal income tax on such sale or to indemnify International Paper for the U.S. federal income tax on such sale pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement.. 18. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including:. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in the operating results of our company due to factors related to our business;. • success or failure of the strategy of our company;. • the quarterly or annual earnings of our company, or those of other companies in our industry;. • continued industry-wide decrease in demand for paper and related products;. • our ability to obtain third-party financing as needed;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions;. • restrictions on our ability to pay dividends under our ABL Facility;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies;. • investor perception of our company;. • natural or environmental disasters that investors believe may affect our company;. • overall market fluctuations;. • a large sale of our stock by a significant shareholder;. • results from any material litigation or government investigation;. • changes in laws and regulations affecting our company or any of the principal products sold by our company; and. • general economic and political conditions and other external factors.. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company.  These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. If securities or industry analysts do not continue to publish research, or publish unfavorable research, about our company, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us and our business.  If the current coverage of our company by securities or industry analysts ceases, the trading price for our stock would be negatively impacted.  In addition, if one or more of these analysts downgrades our stock or publishes misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline.  If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. A significant percentage of our outstanding common stock is held by our three largest shareholders, and certain of those shareholders exercise significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval.  So long as a significant percentage of our common stock continues to be held by a small number of shareholders, the liquidity of our common stock may be impacted, and future sales by those shareholders may result in a reduction in the market price of our common stock.. Our three largest shareholders collectively owned approximately 60% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2017.  As a result, certain of these shareholders may exercise significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions, which may reduce the market price of our common stock.  Additionally, the interests of these shareholders may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders.. This concentrated ownership could also result in a limited amount of shares being available to be traded in the market, resulting in reduced liquidity.  Further, all of the shares of our common stock owned by the UWWH Stockholder are registered for resale under the Securities Act of 1933 (the \"Securities Act\") and, subject to certain limitations, all or a portion of such shares may be offered and sold to the public in the future. When some or all of the shares held by the UWWH Stockholder are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, the market price of our common stock could decline.. 19. Table of Contents. Under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (our \"charter\"), the UWWH Stockholder, Bain Capital Fund VII, L.P. and their respective affiliates and, in some circumstances, any of our directors and officers who is also a director, officer, employee, member or partner of the UWWH Stockholder, Bain Capital Fund VII, L.P. and their respective affiliates, have no obligation to offer us corporate opportunities.. The policies relating to corporate opportunities and transactions with the UWWH Stockholder, Bain Capital Fund VII, L.P. and their respective affiliates set forth in our charter address potential conflicts of interest between us, on the one hand, and the UWWH Stockholder, Bain Capital Fund VII, L.P., their respective affiliates and their respective officers and directors who are directors or officers of our company, on the other hand.  Although these provisions are designed to resolve conflicts between us and the UWWH Stockholder, Bain Capital Fund VII, L.P. and their respective affiliates fairly, conflicts may not be so resolved.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and amended and restated by-laws (our \"by-laws\") could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock.. Our charter and by-laws include a number of provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that shareholders may consider favorable.  For example, our charter and by-laws collectively:. • authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt;. • limit the ability of shareholders to remove directors;. • provide that vacancies on our board of directors, including vacancies resulting from an enlargement of our board of directors, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office;. • prohibit shareholders from calling special meetings of shareholders unless called by the holders of not less than 20% of our outstanding shares of common stock;. • prohibit shareholder action by written consent, unless initiated by the holders of not less than 20% of the outstanding shares of common stock;. • establish advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election as directors or to bring other business before an annual meeting of our shareholders; and. • require the approval of holders of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock to amend our by-laws and certain provisions of our charter.. These provisions may prevent our shareholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context.  Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if the provisions are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.. Our charter and by-laws may also make it difficult for shareholders to replace or remove our management.  These provisions may facilitate management entrenchment that may delay, deter, render more difficult or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our shareholders.. We have not historically paid dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock.. We have not historically declared or paid dividends on our common stock.  We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth, to develop our business, for working capital needs, to reduce debt and for general corporate purposes.  Therefore, the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in their value.  There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain their current value.. Any decision to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of Veritiv's Board of Directors and will depend upon various factors then existing, including earnings, financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, restrictions imposed by applicable law, general business conditions and other factors that Veritiv's Board of Directors may deem relevant.  In addition, our operations are conducted almost entirely through our subsidiaries.  As such, to the extent that we determine in the future to pay dividends on our common stock, none of our subsidiaries will be obligated to make funds available to us for the payment of dividends.  Further, the agreements governing our ABL Facility can, and. 20. Table of Contents. agreements governing future indebtedness may, in certain circumstances, restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer assets to us.. Our charter designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for certain litigation that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could limit our shareholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us.. Our charter provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed to us or our shareholders by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us arising under the Delaware General Corporation Law or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine.  The choice of forum provision in our charter may limit our shareholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us."
