[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before you decide to invest in our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10 - K, including the disclosures in \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in \"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\" We believe the risks described below are the risks that are material to us as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, you could experience a partial or complete loss of your investment.. Risks Related to Veritex's Business. Veritex's business concentration in Texas, and specifically the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex and the Houston metropolitan area, imposes risks and may magnify the consequences of any regional or local economic downturn affecting the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex and the Houston metropolitan area, including any downturn in the real estate sector.. Veritex primarily conducts operations in the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex and the Houston metropolitan area. As of December 31, 2017, the substantial majority of the loans in Veritex's loan portfolio were made to borrowers who live and/or conduct business in the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex and the Houston metropolitan area and the substantial majority of secured loans were secured by collateral located in the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex and the Houston metropolitan area. Accordingly, Veritex is significantly exposed to risks associated with a lack of geographic diversification. The economic conditions in the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex and the Houston metropolitan area are highly dependent on the real estate sector as well as the technology, financial services, insurance, transportation, manufacturing and energy sectors. Any downturn or adverse development in these sectors, particularly the real estate sector, or a decline in the value of single-family homes in the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex and the Houston metropolitan area, could have a material adverse impact on Veritex's business, financial condition and results of operations, and future prospects. Any adverse economic developments, among other things, could negatively affect the volume of loan originations, increase the level of nonperforming assets, increase the rate of foreclosure losses on loans and reduce the value of loans in Veritex's portfolio. Volatility in oil prices may have an impact on the economic conditions in the markets in which we operate. Any regional or local economic downturn that affects (1) existing or prospective borrowers, (2) the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex or Houston metropolitan area or (3) property values in its market areas, may affect Veritex and its profitability more significantly and more adversely than its competitors whose operations are less geographically focused.. 17. Uncertain market conditions and economic trends could adversely affect Veritex's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Veritex operates in an uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain conditions nationally and locally in its industry and market. Financial institutions continue to be affected by volatility in the real estate market in some parts of the country and uncertain regulatory and interest rate conditions. Veritex retains direct exposure to the residential and commercial real estate market in Texas, particularly in the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex and Houston metropolitan area, and is affected by these events.. Veritex's ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in its loan portfolio is made more complex by uncertain market and economic conditions. Veritex's risk management practices, such as monitoring the concentration of its loans within specific industries and its credit approval practices, may not adequately reduce credit risk, and its credit administration personnel, policies and procedures may not adequately adapt to changes in economic or any other conditions affecting customers and the quality of the loan portfolio. A national economic recession or deterioration of conditions in Veritex's market could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in its allowance for loan losses and result in one or more of the following consequences:. • increases in loan delinquencies;. • increases in nonperforming assets and foreclosures;. • decreases in demand for Veritex's products and services, which could adversely affect its liquidity position; and. • decreases in the value of the collateral securing Veritex's loans, especially real estate, which could reduce customers' borrowing power and repayment ability. Declines in real estate values, volume of home sales and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, including job losses, could have an adverse effect on Veritex's borrowers and/or their customers, which could adversely affect Veritex's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Interest rate shifts could reduce net interest income and otherwise negatively impact Veritex's financial condition and results of operations.. The majority of Veritex's banking assets are monetary in nature and subject to risk from changes in interest rates. Like most financial institutions, Veritex's earnings and cash flows depend to a great extent upon the level of net interest income, or the difference between the interest income earned on loans, investments and other interest-earning assets, and the interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in interest rates can increase or decrease net interest income because different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to market interest rate changes. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly, or to a greater degree than interest-earning assets in a period, an increase in interest rates could reduce net interest income. Similarly, when interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly, or to a greater degree than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. Veritex's interest sensitivity profile was asset sensitive as of December 31, 2017, meaning that it estimates net interest income would increase more from rising interest rates than from falling interest rates.. Additionally, an increase in interest rates may, among other things, reduce the demand for loans and Veritex's ability to originate loans and decrease loan repayment rates. A decrease in the general level of interest rates may affect Veritex through, among other things, increased prepayments on its loan portfolio and increased competition for deposits. Accordingly, changes in the level of market interest rates affect Veritex's net yield on interest-earning assets, loan origination volume, loan portfolio and overall results. Although Veritex's asset-liability management strategy is designed to control and mitigate exposure to the risks related to changes in market interest rates, those rates are affected by many factors outside of Veritex's control, including governmental monetary policies, inflation, deflation, recession, changes in unemployment, the money supply, international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets.. 18. Additionally, interest rate increases often result in larger payment requirements for our borrowers, which increases the potential for default and could result in a decrease in the demand for loans. At the same time, the marketability of the property securing a loan may be adversely affected by any reduced demand resulting from higher interest rates. In a declining interest rate environment, there may be an increase in prepayments on loans as borrowers refinance their loans at lower rates. In addition, in a low interest rate environment, loan customers often pursue long-term fixed rate credits, which could adversely affect our earnings and net interest margin if rates increase. Changes in interest rates also can affect the value of loans, securities and other assets. An increase in interest rates that adversely affects the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans may lead to an increase in nonperforming assets and a reduction of income recognized, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Further, when Veritex places a loan on nonaccrual status, Veritex reverses any accrued but unpaid interest receivable, which decreases interest income. At the same time, Veritex continues to have a cost to fund the loan, which is reflected as interest expense, without any interest income to offset the associated funding expense. Thus, an increase in the amount of nonperforming assets would have an adverse impact on Veritex's net interest income.. Significant increases of nonperforming assets from the current level, or greater than anticipated costs to resolve these credits, will have an adverse effect on Veritex's earnings.. Veritex's nonperforming assets, which consist of non-accrual loans, assets acquired through foreclosure and troubled debt restructurings (TDRs) adversely affect our net income in various ways. Veritex does not record interest income on nonaccrual loans and assets acquired through foreclosure.  Veritex must establish an allowance for loan losses which reserves for losses inherent in the loan portfolio that are both probable and reasonably estimable. From time to time, Veritex also writes down the value of properties in our portfolio of assets acquired through foreclosure to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to assets acquired through foreclosure. The resolution of nonperforming assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract management from daily operations and other income producing activities.  Finally, if Veritex's estimate of the allowance for loan losses is inadequate, Veritex will have to increase the allowance for loan losses accordingly, which will have an adverse effect on Veritex's earnings. Significant increases in the level of Veritex's nonperforming assets from the current level, or greater than anticipated costs to resolve these credits, will have an adverse effect on Veritex's earnings.. The small to medium-sized businesses that Veritex lends to may have fewer resources to weather adverse business developments, which may impair a borrower's ability to repay a loan, and such impairment could adversely affect Veritex's results of operations and financial condition.. Veritex focuses its business development and marketing strategy primarily on small to medium-sized businesses. Small to medium-sized businesses frequently have smaller market shares than their competition, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and may experience substantial volatility in operating results, any of which characteristics may impair a borrower's ability to repay a loan. In addition, the success of a small and medium-sized business often depends on the management skills, talents and efforts of one or two people or a small group of people, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these people could have a material adverse impact on the business and its ability to repay its loan. If general economic conditions negatively impact the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex, Houston metropolitan area, or Texas generally and small to medium-sized businesses are adversely affected or Veritex's borrowers are otherwise affected by adverse business developments, Veritex's business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Veritex's allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb potential losses in its loan portfolio, which could adversely affect Veritex's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Veritex establishes an allowance for loan losses and maintains it at a level considered adequate by management to absorb probable loan losses based on its analysis of the loan portfolio and market environment. The allowance for loan losses represents Veritex's estimate of probable losses in the portfolio at each balance sheet date and is based upon relevant information available to Veritex. Veritex's allowance for loan losses consists of a general component based upon probable but unidentified losses inherent in the portfolio and a specific component based on individual loans that are considered impaired. The general component is based on various factors including historical loss experience, historical loss experience for peer banks, growth trends, loan concentrations, migration trends between internal loan risk ratings, current economic conditions and other qualitative factors. The specific component of the allowance for loan losses is calculated based on a review of individual loans considered impaired. The analysis of impaired losses may be based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the effective loan rate, an observable market price or the fair value of the underlying collateral on collateral dependent loans. In determining the collectability of certain loans, management also considers the fair value of any underlying collateral. The amount ultimately realized may differ from the carrying value of these assets because of economic, operating or other conditions beyond Veritex's control, and any such differences may be material.. 19. As of December 31, 2017, Veritex's allowance for loan losses was 0.57% of its total loans. Loans acquired are initially recorded at fair value, which includes an estimate of credit losses expected to be realized over the remaining lives of the loans, and therefore no corresponding allowance for loan losses is recorded for these loans at acquisition. Additional loan losses may occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than Veritex has previously experienced. Veritex may be required to take additional provisions for loan losses in the future to further supplement the allowance for loan losses, either due to management's decision to do so or requirements by its banking regulators. In addition, bank regulatory agencies will periodically review the allowance for loan losses and the value attributed to non-accrual loans or to real estate acquired through foreclosure. Such regulatory agencies may require Veritex to recognize future charge-offs. These adjustments could adversely affect Veritex's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Veritex may be unable to implement aspects of its growth strategy, which may affect its ability to maintain historical earnings trends.. Veritex's business has grown rapidly. Financial institutions that grow rapidly can experience significant difficulties as a result of rapid growth. Furthermore, Veritex's strategy focuses on organic growth, supplemented by acquisitions. Veritex may be unable to execute on aspects of its growth strategy to sustain its historical rate of growth or may be unable to grow at all. More specifically, Veritex may be unable to generate sufficient new loans and deposits within acceptable risk and expense tolerances, obtain the personnel or funding necessary for additional growth or find suitable acquisition candidates. Various factors, such as economic conditions and competition, may impede or prohibit the growth of Veritex's operations, the opening of new branches and the consummation of acquisitions. Further, Veritex may be unable to attract and retain experienced bankers, which could adversely affect its growth. The success of Veritex's strategy also depends on its ability to effectively manage growth, which is dependent upon a number of factors, including the ability to adapt existing credit, operational, technology and governance infrastructure to accommodate expanded operations. If Veritex fails to build infrastructure sufficient to support rapid growth or fails to implement one or more aspects of its strategy, Veritex may be unable to maintain historical earnings trends, which could have an adverse effect on Veritex's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Veritex's strategy of pursuing acquisitions exposes it to financial, execution and operational risks that could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. Veritex intends to continue pursuing a strategy that includes acquisitions. An acquisition strategy involves significant risks, including the following:. • finding suitable candidates for acquisition;. • attracting funding to support additional growth within acceptable risk tolerances;. • maintaining asset quality;. • retaining customers and key personnel, including bankers;. • obtaining necessary regulatory approvals, which Veritex may have difficulty obtaining or be unable to obtain;. • conducting adequate due diligence and managing known and unknown risks and uncertainties;. • integrating acquired businesses; and. • maintaining adequate regulatory capital. The market for acquisition targets is highly competitive, which may adversely affect Veritex's ability to find acquisition candidates that fit its strategy and standards. Veritex faces significant competition in pursuing acquisition targets from other banks and financial institutions, many of which possess greater financial, human, technical and other resources than Veritex. Veritex's ability to compete in acquiring target institutions will depend on the financial resources available to fund the acquisitions, including the amount of cash and cash equivalents and the liquidity and market price of Veritex common stock. In addition, increased competition may also drive up the acquisition consideration that Veritex will be required to pay in order to successfully capitalize on attractive acquisition opportunities. To the extent that Veritex is unable to find suitable acquisition targets, an important component of its growth strategy may not be realized.. 20. Acquisitions of financial institutions also involve operational risks and uncertainties, such as unknown or contingent liabilities with no available manner of recourse, exposure to unexpected problems such as asset quality, the retention of key employees and customers and other issues that could negatively affect Veritex's business. Veritex may not be able to complete future acquisitions or, if completed, may not be able to successfully integrate the operations, technology platforms, management, products and services of the entities acquired or realize a reduction of redundancies. The integration process may also require significant time and attention from Veritex's management that would otherwise be directed toward servicing existing business and developing new business. Failure to successfully integrate the entities Veritex acquires into its existing operations in a timely manner may increase its operating costs significantly and adversely affect Veritex's business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values and, therefore, some dilution of Veritex's tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future acquisition, and the carrying amount of any goodwill that is currently maintained or that may be acquired may be subject to impairment in future periods.. Veritex's ability to retain bankers and recruit additional successful bankers is critical to the success of its business strategy, and any failure to do so could adversely affect Veritex's business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. Veritex's ability to retain and grow loans, deposits and fee income depends upon the business generation capabilities, reputation and relationship management skills of its bankers. If Veritex were to lose the services of any of its bankers, including successful bankers employed by banks that Veritex may acquire, to a new or existing competitor or otherwise, Veritex may not be able to retain valuable relationships and some of its customers could choose to use the services of a competitor instead.. Veritex's growth strategy also relies on its ability to attract and retain additional profitable bankers. Veritex may face difficulties in recruiting and retaining bankers of the desired caliber, including as a result of competition from other financial institutions. In particular, many of Veritex's competitors are significantly larger with greater financial resources, and may be able to offer more attractive compensation packages and broader career opportunities. Additionally, Veritex may incur significant expenses and expend significant time and resources on training, integration and business development before it is able to determine whether a new banker will be profitable or effective. If Veritex is unable to attract and retain successful bankers, or if its bankers fail to meet expectations in terms of customer relationships and profitability, Veritex may be unable to execute its business strategy and its business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects may be adversely affected.. Loss of any of Veritex's executive officers or other key employees could impair relationships with its customers and adversely affect its business.. Veritex's success is dependent upon the continued service and skills of its executive management team. Veritex's goals, strategies and marketing efforts are closely tied to the banking philosophy and strengths of its executive management team. Veritex's success is also dependent in part on the continued service of its market presidents and relationship managers. The loss of any of these key personnel could adversely affect Veritex's business because of their skills, years of industry experience, relationships with customers and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Veritex cannot guarantee that these executive officers or key employees will continue to be employed with them in the future.. The relatively unseasoned nature of a significant portion of Veritex's loan portfolio may expose it to increased credit risks.. The business of lending is inherently risky, including risks that the principal of or interest on any loan will not be repaid timely or at all or that the value of any collateral supporting the loan will be insufficient to cover Veritex's outstanding exposure. Veritex's loan portfolio has grown to $2.2 billion as of December 31, 2017, from $100.9 million as of December 31, 2010.This growth is related to both organic growth and loans acquired in connection with acquisitions. The organic portion of this increase is due to increased loan production in the Texas markets in which we operate. It is difficult to assess the future performance of acquired or recently originated loans because Veritex's relatively limited experience with such loans does not provide it with a significant payment history from which to judge future collectability. These loans may experience higher delinquency or charge-off levels than Veritex's historical loan portfolio experience, which could adversely affect Veritex's business, financial condition and results of operations.. 21. A large portion of Veritex's loan portfolio consists of commercial loans secured by receivables, promissory notes, inventory, equipment or other commercial collateral, the deterioration in value of which could increase the potential for future losses.. As of December 31, 2017, $684.6 million or 30.6% of Veritex's total loans, consisted of commercial loans to businesses. In general, these loans are collateralized by general business assets including, among other things, accounts receivable, promissory notes, inventory and equipment and most are backed by a personal guaranty of the borrower or principal. These commercial loans are typically larger in amount than loans to individuals and, therefore, have the potential for larger losses on a single loan basis. Additionally, the repayment of commercial loans is subject to the ongoing business operations of the borrower. The collateral securing such loans generally includes moveable property such as equipment and inventory, which may decline in value more rapidly than Veritex anticipates exposing it to increased credit risk. A significant portion of Veritex's commercial loans are secured by promissory notes that evidence loans made by Veritex to borrowers that in turn make loans to others that are secured by real estate. Accordingly, negative changes in the economy affecting real estate values and liquidity could impair the value of the collateral securing these loans. Significant adverse changes in the economy or local market conditions in which Veritex's commercial lending customers operate could cause rapid declines in loan collectability and the values associated with general business assets resulting in inadequate collateral coverage that may expose Veritex to credit losses and could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations.. Veritex's commercial real estate and construction and land loan portfolios expose it to credit risks that could be greater than the risks related to other types of loans.. As of December 31, 2017, $909.3 million, or 40.7% of total loans, consisted of commercial real estate loans (including owner occupied commercial real estate loans) and $277.8 million, or 12.4% of total loans, consisted of construction and land loans. These loans typically involve repayment dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. The availability of such income for repayment may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. These loans expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by other types of collateral because the collateral securing these loans is typically more difficult to liquidate due to the fluctuation of real estate values. Additionally, non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans generally involve relatively large balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers. Unexpected deterioration in the credit quality of Veritex's non-owner occupied commercial real estate loan portfolio could require it to increase the allowance for loan losses, which would reduce profitability and could have a material adverse effect on Veritex's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Construction and land loans also involve risks attributable to the fact that loan funds are secured by a project under construction, and the project is of uncertain value prior to its completion. It can be difficult to accurately evaluate the total funds required to complete a project, and construction lending often involves the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project rather than the ability of a borrower or guarantor to repay the loan. If Veritex is forced to foreclose on a project prior to completion, it may be unable to recover the entire unpaid portion of the loan. In addition, Veritex may be required to fund additional amounts to complete a project and may have to hold the property for an indeterminate period of time, any of which could adversely affect Veritex's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Because a significant portion of its loan portfolio consists of real estate loans, negative changes in the economy affecting real estate values and liquidity could impair the value of collateral securing Veritex's real estate loans and result in loan and other losses.. As of December 31, 2017, $1.5 billion, or 68.9% of total loans, consisted of loans with real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. As a result, adverse developments affecting real estate values in the Texas markets in which we operate could increase the credit risk associated with Veritex's real estate loan portfolio. Real estate values in many Texas markets have experienced periods of fluctuation over the last five years. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time. Adverse changes affecting real estate values and the liquidity of real estate in one or more of Veritex's markets could increase the credit risk associated with Veritex's loan portfolio, and could result in losses that adversely affect credit quality, financial condition, and results of operation. Negative changes in the economy affecting real estate values and liquidity in Veritex's market areas could significantly impair the value of property pledged as collateral on loans and affect its ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure without a loss or additional losses. Collateral may have to be sold for less than the outstanding balance of the loan, which could result in losses on such loans. Such declines and losses could have a material adverse impact on Veritex's business, results of operations and growth prospects. If real estate values decline, it is also more likely that Veritex would be required to increase the allowance for loan losses, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations.. 22. Veritex may be subject to environmental liabilities in connection with the foreclosure on real estate assets securing its loan portfolio.. Hazardous or toxic substances or other environmental hazards may be located on the properties that secure Veritex's loans. If Veritex acquires such properties as a result of foreclosure or otherwise, it could become subject to various environmental liabilities. For example, Veritex could be held liable for the cost of cleaning up or otherwise addressing contamination at or from these properties. Veritex could also be held liable to a governmental entity or third party for property damage, personal injury or other claims relating to any environmental contamination at or from these properties. In addition, Veritex owns and operates certain properties that may be subject to similar environmental liability risks. Although Veritex has policies and procedures that are designed to mitigate against certain environmental risks, it may not detect all environmental hazards associated with these properties. If Veritex were to become subject to significant environmental liabilities, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Veritex has a concentration of loans outstanding to a limited number of borrowers, which may increase its risk of loss.. Veritex has extended significant amounts of credit to a limited number of borrowers, and as of December 31, 2017, the aggregate amount of loans to its 10 and 25 largest borrowers (including related entities) amounted to $212.5 million, or 9.5% of total loans, and $437.8 million, or 19.6% of total loans, respectively. As of such date, none of these loans were nonperforming loans. Concentration of a significant amount of credit extended to a limited number of borrowers increases the risk in Veritex's loan portfolio. If one or more of these borrowers is unable to make payments of interest and principal in respect of such loans, the potential loss to Veritex is more likely to have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. A  lack of liquidity could impair Veritex's ability to fund operations and adversely affect its operations and jeopardize its business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Liquidity is essential to Veritex's business. Veritex relies on its ability to generate deposits and effectively manage the repayment and maturity schedules of loans and investment securities, respectively, to ensure that it has adequate liquidity to fund operations. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of Veritex's investment securities, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on its liquidity.. Veritex's most important source of funds is core deposits. Core deposit balances can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments such as money market funds, Veritex would lose a relatively low-cost source of funds, increasing funding costs and reducing net interest income and net income.. Other primary sources of funds consist of cash flows from operations, maturities and sales of investment securities, and proceeds from the issuance and sale of Veritex equity and debt securities to investors. Additional liquidity is provided by the ability to borrow from Veritex's brokered deposit network, which includes the Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas, or the FHLB, and the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, or the FRB. Veritex also may borrow funds from third-party lenders, such as other financial institutions. Access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize its activities, or on acceptable terms, could be impaired by factors that affect Veritex directly or the financial services industry or economy in general, such as disruptions in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry. Veritex's access to funding sources could also be affected by a decrease in the level of business activity as a result of a downturn in the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex or by one or more adverse regulatory actions against it.. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact Veritex's ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet its expenses or fulfill obligations such as repaying borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse impact on liquidity and could, in turn, adversely affect Veritex's business, financial condition and results of operations.. 23. Veritex has a limited operating history and, accordingly, investors will have little basis on which to evaluate its ability to achieve its business objectives.. Veritex was formed as a bank holding company in 2009 and commenced banking operations in 2010. Accordingly, Veritex has a limited operating history upon which to evaluate its business and future prospects. As a result, it is difficult, if not impossible, to predict future operating results and to assess the likelihood of the success of Veritex's business. As a relatively young financial institution, Veritex Bank is also subject to risks and levels of risk that are often greater than those encountered by financial institutions with longer established operations and relationships. New financial institutions often require significant capital from sources other than operations. Since Veritex is a relatively young financial institution, its management team and employees will shoulder the burdens of the business operations and a workload associated with business growth and capitalization that is disproportionately greater than a more mature, established financial institution.. Veritex may need to raise additional capital in the future, and if it fails to maintain sufficient capital, whether due to losses, an inability to raise additional capital or otherwise, Veritex's financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as the ability to maintain regulatory compliance, could be adversely affected.. Veritex faces significant capital and other regulatory requirements as a financial institution. Veritex may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet its commitments and business needs, which could include the possibility of financing acquisitions. In addition, Veritex, on a consolidated basis, and Veritex Bank, on a stand-alone basis, must meet certain regulatory capital requirements and maintain sufficient liquidity. Importantly, regulatory capital requirements could increase from current levels, which could require Veritex to raise additional capital or reduce its operations. Veritex's ability to raise additional capital depends on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry, market conditions and governmental activities, and on Veritex's financial condition and performance. Accordingly, Veritex may be unable to raise additional capital if needed or on acceptable terms. If Veritex fails to maintain capital to meet regulatory requirements, its liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Veritex could recognize losses on investment securities held in its securities portfolio, particularly if interest rates increase or economic and market conditions deteriorate.. While Veritex attempts to invest a significant percentage of its assets in loans (its loan to deposit ratio was 98.0% as of December 31, 2017), it also invests a percentage of its total assets in investment securities (7.7% as of December 31, 2017) with the primary objectives of providing a source of liquidity, providing an appropriate return on funds invested, managing interest rate risk, meeting pledging requirements and meeting regulatory capital requirements. As of December 31, 2017, the fair value of Veritex's securities portfolio was $228.1 million, which included a net unrealized loss of $1.6 million. Factors beyond Veritex's control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in its portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. For example, fixed-rate securities are generally subject to decreases in market value when interest rates rise. Additional factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency downgrades of the securities, defaults by the issuer or individual borrowers with respect to the underlying securities, and continued instability in the credit markets. Any of the foregoing factors could cause other-than-temporary impairment in future periods and result in realized losses. The process for determining whether impairment is other-than-temporary usually requires difficult, subjective judgments about the future financial performance of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security. Because of changing economic and market conditions affecting interest rates, the financial condition of issuers of the securities and the performance of the underlying collateral, Veritex may recognize realized and/or unrealized losses in future periods, which could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. 24. Veritex faces strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Veritex conducts operations exclusively in Texas and particularly in the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex and Houston metropolitan area. Many of Veritex's competitors offer the same, or a wider variety of, banking services within the same market area. These competitors include banks with nationwide operations, regional banks and other community banks. Veritex also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings banks, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, asset-based non-bank lenders and certain other non-financial entities, such as retail stores which may maintain their own credit programs and certain governmental organizations which may offer more favorable financing or deposit terms than Veritex can. In addition, a number of out-of-state financial intermediaries have opened production offices, or otherwise solicit deposits, in its market area. Increased competition in Veritex's market may result in reduced loans and deposits, as well as reduced net interest margin, fee income and profitability. Ultimately, Veritex may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. If it is unable to attract and retain banking customers, Veritex may be unable to continue to grow loan and deposit portfolios, and its business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Veritex's ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things:. • the ability to develop, maintain and build long - term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets;. • the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands;. • the rate at which Veritex introduces new products and services relative to its competitors;. • customer satisfaction with Veritex's level of service;. • the ability to expand Veritex's market position; and. • industry and general economic trends.. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken Veritex's competitive position, which could adversely affect its growth and profitability, which, in turn, could adversely effect its business, financial condition and results of operations.. Negative public opinion regarding Veritex or Veritex's failure to maintain its reputation in the community could adversely affect its business and prevent Veritex from continuing to grow its business.. As a community bank, Veritex's reputation within the community it serves is critical to its success. Veritex strives to enhance its reputation by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share its core values of being an integral part of the communities Veritex serves and delivering superior service to its customers. If Veritex's reputation is negatively affected by the actions of its employees or otherwise, Veritex may be less successful in attracting new customers, and its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Further, negative public opinion can expose Veritex to litigation and regulatory action as it seeks to implement its growth strategy.. 25. If Veritex fails to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, it may not be able to accurately report its financial results or prevent fraud.. Ensuring that Veritex has adequate disclosure controls and procedures, including internal control over financial reporting, in place so that it can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is costly and time-consuming and needs to be reevaluated frequently. Veritex is in the process of documenting, reviewing and, if appropriate, improving its internal controls and procedures since becoming a public company and being subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting and, when Veritex ceases to be an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act, a report by its independent auditors addressing these assessments. Veritex's management may conclude that its internal control over financial reporting is not effective due to its failure to cure any identified material weakness or otherwise. Moreover, even if Veritex's management concludes that its internal control over financial reporting is effective, Veritex's independent registered public accounting firm may not conclude that its internal control over financial reporting is effective. In the future, Veritex's independent registered public accounting firm may not be satisfied with its internal control over financial reporting or the level at which its controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or it may interpret the relevant requirements differently from Veritex. In addition, during the course of the evaluation, documentation and testing of Veritex's internal control over financial reporting, Veritex may identify deficiencies that it may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the SEC for compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Any such deficiencies may also subject Veritex to adverse regulatory consequences. If Veritex fails to achieve and maintain the adequacy of its internal control over financial reporting, as these standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, Veritex may be unable to report its financial information on a timely basis, it may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that it has effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and it may suffer adverse regulatory consequences or violations of listing standards. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of Veritex's financial statements.. Veritex is subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, customer or employee fraud and data processing system failures and errors.. Employee errors and employee or customer misconduct could subject Veritex to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm its reputation. Misconduct by Veritex's employees could include hiding unauthorized activities, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of customers or improper use of confidential information. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions Veritex takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject Veritex to financial claims for negligence.. Veritex maintains a system of internal controls to mitigate against operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud, as well as insurance coverage designed to protect it from material losses associated with these risks including losses resulting from any associated business interruption. If these internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could adversely affect Veritex's business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, Veritex relies heavily upon information supplied by third parties, including the information contained in credit applications, property appraisals, title information, equipment pricing and valuation and employment and income documentation, in deciding which loans to originate, as well as the terms of those loans. If any of the information upon which Veritex relies is misrepresented, either fraudulently or inadvertently, and the misrepresentation is not detected prior to loan funding, the value of the loan may be significantly lower than expected, or Veritex may fund a loan that it would not have funded or on terms it would not have extended. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the applicant or another third party, Veritex will generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. A loan subject to a material misrepresentation is typically unsellable or subject to repurchase if it is sold prior to detection of the misrepresentation. The sources of the misrepresentations are often difficult to locate, and recovery of any of the resulting monetary losses Veritex may suffer could be difficult.. 26. Veritex has a continuing need for technological change and may not have the resources to effectively implement new technology, or may experience operational challenges when implementing new technology.. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Veritex's future success will depend, at least in part, upon its ability to address the needs of customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in operations as it continues to grow and expand the products and services offered. Veritex may experience operational challenges as it implements these new technology enhancements or products, which could result in an inability to fully realize the anticipated benefits from such new technology or significant costs to remedy any such challenges in a timely manner.. Many of Veritex's larger competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. As a result, they may be able to offer additional or superior products compared to those that Veritex will be able to provide, which would put it at a competitive disadvantage. Accordingly, Veritex may lose customers seeking new technology-driven products and services to the extent it is unable to provide such products and services.. Veritex's operations could be interrupted if third-party service providers experience difficulty, terminate their services or fail to comply with banking regulations.. Veritex depends on a number of relationships with third-party service providers. Specifically, Veritex receives certain third-party services including, but not limited to, core systems processing, essential web hosting and other Internet systems, online banking services, deposit processing and other processing services. Veritex's operations could be interrupted if any of these third-party service providers experience difficulties, or terminate their services, and Veritex is unable to replace them with other service providers, particularly on a timely basis. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, Veritex's business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. Even if Veritex is able to replace third-party service providers, it may be at a higher cost to it, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations.. System failure or breaches of Veritex's network security could subject it to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities.. The computer systems and network infrastructure Veritex uses, including the systems and infrastructure of third-party service providers, could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Veritex's operations are dependent upon its ability to protect its computer equipment, and the information stored therein, against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes breakdowns or disruptions in Veritex's general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems could damage its reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject it to additional regulatory scrutiny, including enforcement action that could restrict its operations, or expose Veritex to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on it. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through Veritex's computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to Veritex and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with Veritex. In addition, advances in computer capabilities could result in a compromise or breach of the systems Veritex and its third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could adversely affect Veritex's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions.. Technology and other changes are allowing consumers to complete financial transactions through alternative methods that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts, mutual funds or general-purpose reloadable prepaid cards. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, which may increase as consumers become more comfortable with these new technologies and offerings, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost of deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 27. If the goodwill that Veritex has recorded or may record in connection with a business acquisition becomes impaired, it could require charges to earnings, which would adversely effect its business, financial condition and results of operations.. Goodwill represents the amount by which the cost of an acquisition exceeded the fair value of net assets acquired in connection with the purchase of another financial institution. Veritex reviews goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if a triggering event occurs which indicates that the carrying value of the asset might be impaired. Veritex utilizes a two-step process to test for impairment of goodwill. Under the first step, the estimation of fair value of Veritex's one reporting unit is compared to its carrying value including goodwill. If step one indicates a potential impairment, the second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment, if any. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Any such adjustments are reflected in Veritex's results of operations in the periods in which they become known. As of December 31, 2017, goodwill totaled $159.5 million. Although Veritex has not recorded any impairment charges since the goodwill was initially recorded, future evaluations of existing goodwill or goodwill acquired in the future may result in findings of impairment and related write-downs, which could adversely affect Veritex's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Veritex's Industry and Regulation. The ongoing implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act could adversely affect Veritex's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law, and the process of implementation is ongoing. The Dodd-Frank Act imposed significant regulatory and compliance changes on many industries, including Veritex's.  Significant uncertainty continues to surround the manner in which the various regulatory agencies ultimately will implement the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, and the full extent of the impact of the requirements on Veritex's operations is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of Veritex's business activities, require changes to certain of its business practices, require the development of new compliance infrastructure, impose upon Veritex more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect its business. These changes may also require Veritex to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with the new requirements or with any future changes in laws or regulations could adversely affect Veritex's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Veritex operates in a highly regulated environment and the laws and regulations that govern its operations, corporate governance, executive compensation and accounting principles, or changes in them, or failure to comply with them, could adversely affect Veritex's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Veritex is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and legal requirements that govern almost all aspects of its operations. These laws and regulations are not intended to protect Veritex shareholders. Rather, these laws and regulations are intended to protect customers, depositors, the Deposit Insurance Fund, and the overall financial stability of the United States. These laws and regulations, among other matters, prescribe minimum capital requirements, impose limitations on the business activities in which Veritex can engage, limit the dividend or distributions that the Bank can pay to Veritex, restrict the ability of institutions to guarantee Veritex's debt, and impose certain specific accounting requirements on Veritex that may be more restrictive and may result in greater or earlier charges to earnings or reductions in its capital than generally accepted accounting principles would require. Compliance with laws and regulations can be difficult and costly, and changes to laws and regulations often impose additional compliance costs. Veritex's failure to comply with these laws and regulations, even if the failure follows good faith effort or reflects a difference in interpretation, could subject it to restrictions on its business activities, fines and other penalties, any of which could adversely affect its results of operations, capital base and the price of its securities. Further, any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect Veritex's business, financial condition and results of operations.. 28. State and federal banking agencies periodically conduct examinations of Veritex's business, including compliance with laws and regulations, and failure to comply with any supervisory actions to which Veritex is or may become subject as a result of such examinations could adversely affect Veritex's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Texas and federal banking agencies, including the TDB and the Federal Reserve, periodically conduct examinations of Veritex's business, including compliance with laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination, a Texas or federal banking agency were to determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of any of Veritex's operations had become unsatisfactory, or that Veritex, the Bank or their respective management were in violation of any law or regulation, it may take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate. These actions include the power to prohibit \"unsafe or unsound\" practices, to require affirmative actions to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in Veritex's capital levels, to restrict its growth, to assess civil monetary penalties against Veritex, the Bank or their respective officers or directors, to remove officers and directors and to terminate the Bank's deposit insurance upon notice and hearing. If Veritex becomes subject to such regulatory actions, its business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation could be adversely affected.. Many of Veritex's new activities and expansion plans require regulatory approvals, and failure to obtain them may restrict future growth.. Veritex intends to complement and expand its business by pursuing strategic acquisitions of financial institutions and other complementary businesses. Generally, Veritex must receive state and federal regulatory approval before it can acquire a depository institution insured by the FDIC or related business. In determining whether to approve a proposed acquisition, federal banking regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, Veritex's financial condition, its future prospects and the impact of the proposal on U.S. financial stability. The regulators also review current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence, experience and integrity of management and its record of compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served (including the acquiring institution's record of compliance under the CRA) and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. Such regulatory approvals may not be granted on terms that are acceptable to it, or at all. Veritex may also be required to sell branches as a condition to receiving regulatory approval, which condition may not be acceptable to it or, if acceptable to it, may reduce the benefit of any acquisition.. In addition to the acquisition of existing financial institutions, as opportunities arise, Veritex plans to continue de novo branching as a part of its organic growth strategy. De novo branching and any acquisitions carry with them numerous risks, including the inability to obtain all required regulatory approvals. The failure to obtain these regulatory approvals for potential future strategic acquisitions and de novo branches could impact Veritex's business plans and restrict its growth.. Financial institutions, such as the Bank, face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations.. The Bank Secrecy Act, the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, or the USA PATRIOT Act, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, established by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, or the Treasury Department, to administer the Bank Secrecy Act, is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements, and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration, and Internal Revenue Service. There is also increased scrutiny of compliance with the sanctions programs and rules administered and enforced by the Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control.. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area, Veritex has dedicated significant resources to its Bank Secrecy Act anti-money laundering programs. If its policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient, Veritex could be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions such as restrictions on its ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of its business plans, including acquisitions and de novo branching.. 29. Veritex is subject to the CRA and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to material penalties.. The CRA, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The CFPB, the Justice Department and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful challenge to an institution's performance under the CRA or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity, and restrictions on expansion activity. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation.. The FDIC's restoration plan and the related increased assessment rate could adversely affect Veritex's earnings and results of operations.. As a result of economic conditions and the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has increased deposit insurance assessment rates, which in turn raised deposit premiums for many insured depository institutions. If these increases are insufficient for the Deposit Insurance Fund to meet its funding requirements, special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums may be required. Veritex is generally unable to control the amount of premiums that it is required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional financial institution failures that affect the Deposit Insurance Fund, Veritex may be required to pay FDIC premiums higher than current levels. Veritex's FDIC insurance related costs were $1.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to $661 thousand for the year ended December 31, 2016 and $448 thousand for the year ended December 31, 2015. Any future additional assessments, increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums could adversely affect Veritex's earnings and results of operations.. Veritex is subject to increased capital requirements, which may adversely impact return on equity or prevent Veritex from paying dividends or repurchasing shares.. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal banking agencies to establish stricter risk-based and leverage capital requirements to apply to banks and bank and savings and loan holding companies. The federal banking agencies have adopted revised risk-based and leverage capital requirements as well as a revised method for calculating risk-weighted assets. The capital rules apply to all bank holding companies with $1 billion or more in consolidated assets and all banks regardless of size.. As a result of the adoption of enhanced capital rules, Veritex became subject to increased required capital levels on January 1, 2015, with a phase-in period for certain provisions over four years that began in 2016. The application of more stringent capital requirements on Veritex could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions such as the inability to pay dividends or repurchase shares if Veritex were to be unable to comply with such requirements.. The Federal Reserve may require Veritex to commit capital resources to support the Bank.. A bank holding company is required to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to its subsidiary banks and to commit resources to support its subsidiary banks. The Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank at times when the bank holding company may not be inclined to do so and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank. Accordingly, Veritex could be required to provide financial assistance to the Bank if it experiences financial distress.. Such a capital injection may be required at a time when Veritex's resources are limited and it may be required to borrow the funds to make the required capital injection. In the event of a bank holding company's bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the holding company's general unsecured creditors, including the holders of any note obligations.. 30. Veritex could be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. Veritex has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose Veritex to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, Veritex's credit risk may be exacerbated when its collateral cannot be foreclosed upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due. Any such losses could adversely affect Veritex's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve could adversely affect Veritex's business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, Veritex's earnings and growth are affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the U.S. money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve to implement these objectives are open market operations in U.S. government securities, adjustments of both the discount rate and the federal funds rate and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits.. The monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. Although Veritex cannot determine the effects of such policies on it at this time, such policies could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Veritex's Common Stock. The market price of Veritex's common stock may fluctuate significantly.. The market price of Veritex's common stock could fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to:. • Veritex's quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in its industry;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in Veritex's operating results;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. • the public reaction to Veritex's press releases, its other public announcements and its filings with the SEC;. • announcements by Veritex or its competitors of significant acquisitions, dispositions, innovations or new programs and services;. • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts that cover Veritex's common stock or the failure of securities analysts to cover Veritex's common stock;. • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or Veritex's ability to meet those estimates;. • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies;. • general economic conditions and overall market fluctuations;. • the trading volume of Veritex's common stock;. • changes in business, legal or regulatory conditions, or other developments affecting participants in Veritex's industry, and publicity regarding its business or any of its significant customers or competitors;. • changes in governmental monetary policies, including the policies of the Federal Reserve;. • future sales of Veritex's common stock by Veritex or its directors, executive officers or significant shareholders; and. • changes in economic conditions in and political conditions affecting Veritex's target markets.. In particular, the realization of any of the risks described in this \"Item 1A. Risk Factors\" section could have a material adverse effect on the market price of Veritex's common stock and cause the value of your investment to decline. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of Veritex's common stock over the short, medium or long-term, regardless of Veritex's actual performance. If the market price of Veritex's common stock reaches an elevated level, it may materially and rapidly decline. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation. If Veritex were to be involved in a class action lawsuit, it could divert the attention of senior management and could adversely affect Veritex's business, financial condition and results of operations.. 31. If securities or industry analysts change their recommendations regarding Veritex's common stock or if Veritex's operating results do not meet their expectations, Veritex's stock price could decline.. The trading market for Veritex's common stock could be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about Veritex or its business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of Veritex or fail to publish reports on it regularly, Veritex could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause its stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover Veritex downgrade its stock or if Veritex's operating results do not meet their expectations, either absolutely or relative to Veritex's competitors, Veritex's stock price could decline significantly.. Future sales or the possibility of future sales of a substantial amount of Veritex common stock may depress the price of shares of Veritex's common stock.. Future sales or the availability for sale of substantial amounts of Veritex's common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of Veritex's common stock and could impair its ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities.. Veritex may issue shares of its common stock or other securities from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments and pursuant to compensation and incentive plans. If any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares of Veritex's common stock, or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that Veritex may issue may in turn be substantial. Veritex may also grant registration rights covering those shares of its common stock or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments.. Veritex cannot predict the size of future issuances of its common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of its common stock will have on the market price of its common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of Veritex's common stock (including shares of its common stock issued in connection with an acquisition or under a compensation or incentive plan), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for its common stock and could impair Veritex's ability to raise capital through future sales of its securities.. The holders of Veritex's debt obligations will have priority over Veritex's common stock with respect to payment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Veritex and with respect to the payment of interest and preferred dividends.. As of December 31, 2017, Veritex had approximately $4.9 million outstanding in aggregate principal amount of subordinated promissory notes held by investors, and, in the aggregate, $11.7 million of junior subordinated debentures issued to two statutory trusts that, in turn issued $11.4 million in the aggregate of trust preferred securities. In the future, Veritex may incur additional indebtedness. Upon Veritex's liquidation, dissolution or winding up, holders of its common stock will not be entitled to receive any payment or other distribution of assets until after all of Veritex's obligations to its debt holders have been satisfied and holders of trust preferred securities have received any payment or distribution due to them. In addition, Veritex is required to pay interest on its outstanding indebtedness before it pays any dividends on its common stock. Since any decision to issue debt securities or incur other borrowings in the future will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond Veritex's control, the amount, timing, nature or success of Veritex's future capital raising efforts is uncertain. Thus, holders of Veritex's common stock bear the risk that Veritex's future issuances of debt securities or its incurrence of other borrowings will negatively affect the market price of its common stock.. Veritex is dependent upon the Bank for cash flow, and the Bank's ability to make cash distributions is restricted, which could impact Veritex's ability to satisfy its obligations.. Veritex's primary asset is the Bank. As such, Veritex depends upon the Bank for cash distributions through dividends on the Bank's stock to pay Veritex's operating expenses and satisfy its obligations, including debt obligations. There are numerous laws and banking regulations that limit the Bank's ability to pay dividends to Veritex. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to Veritex, Veritex will not be able to satisfy its obligations. Federal and state statutes and regulations restrict the Bank's ability to make cash distributions to Veritex. These statutes and regulations require, among other things, that the Bank maintain certain levels of capital in order to pay a dividend. Further, federal and state banking authorities have the ability to restrict the Bank's payment of dividends through supervisory action.. 32. For as long as Veritex is an emerging growth company, Veritex will not be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, including disclosure about its executive compensation, that apply to other public companies.. Veritex is classified as an \"emerging growth company\" under the JOBS Act. For as long as Veritex is an emerging growth company, unlike other public companies, it will not be required to, among other things, (1) provide an auditor's attestation report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of its system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, (2) comply with any new requirements proposed by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer, (3) provide certain disclosure regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies, (4) hold nonbinding advisory votes on executive compensation, or (5) obtain shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. Veritex will remain an emerging growth company until the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of its initial public offering, which was completed in October 2014, although Veritex will lose that status sooner if it has more than $1.07 billion of revenues in a fiscal year, has more than $700.0 million in market value of its common stock held by non-affiliates, or issues more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a 3-year period.. The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, may strain Veritex's resources, increase its costs and distract management.. Veritex completed its initial public offering in October 2014. As a public company, Veritex incurs significant legal, accounting and other expenses that it did not incur as a private company. Veritex also incur costs associated with its public company reporting requirements and with corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Nasdaq rules and the rules implemented by the SEC. These rules and regulations have increased Veritex's legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations also make it more difficult and more expensive for Veritex to obtain director and officer liability insurance. As a result, it may be more difficult for Veritex to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on its board of directors or as executive officers.. Shareholders may be deemed to be acting in concert or otherwise in control of Veritex, which could impose notice, approval and ongoing regulatory requirements upon them and result in adverse regulatory consequences for such holders.. Veritex is a bank holding company regulated by the Federal Reserve. Banking laws impose notice, approval and ongoing regulatory requirements on any shareholder or other party that seeks to acquire direct or indirect \"control\" of an FDIC-insured depository institution or a company that controls an FDIC-insured depository institution, such as a bank holding company. These laws include the BHC Act and the Change in Bank Control Act. The determination as to whether an investor \"controls\" a depository institution or holding company is based on all of the facts and circumstances surrounding the investment.. As a general matter, a party is deemed to control a depository institution or other company if the party (1) owns or controls 25.0% or more of any class of voting stock of the bank or other company, (2) controls the election of a majority of the directors of the bank or other company, or (3) has the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of the bank or other company. In addition, subject to rebuttal, a party may be presumed to control a depository institution or other company if the investor owns or controls 10.0% or more of any class of voting stock. Ownership by affiliated parties, or parties acting in concert, is typically aggregated for these purposes. \"Acting in concert\" generally means knowing participation in a joint activity or parallel action towards the common goal of acquiring control of a bank or a parent company, whether or not pursuant to an express agreement. The manner in which this definition is applied in individual circumstances can vary and cannot always be predicted with certainty.. Any shareholder that is deemed to \"control\" Veritex for regulatory purposes would become subject to notice, approval and ongoing regulatory requirements and may be subject to adverse regulatory consequences. Potential investors are advised to consult with their legal counsel regarding the applicable regulations and requirements.. An investment in Veritex's common stock is not an insured deposit and is not guaranteed by the FDIC, so you could lose some or all of your investment.. An investment in Veritex's common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss or guaranteed by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. An investment in Veritex's common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described herein. As a result, if you acquire Veritex's common stock, you could lose some or all of your investment.. 33"
