[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating us and our common stock. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our operations could be affected by various risks, many of which are beyond our control. Based on current information, we believe that the following list identifies the most significant risk factors that could affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. There may be additional risks and uncertainties that adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in the future that are not presently known, are not currently believed to be material, or are not identified below because they are common to all businesses. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. For more information, see \"Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements.\". Risks Related to Our Business. Overall Economic and Supply/Demand Conditions - Economic conditions or product supply versus demand imbalance in the semiconductor industry or in certain geographic markets in which we do business may decrease the demand for our goods and services and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Demand for our products and services depends in part on global and regional economic conditions affecting the countries in which we do business and the semiconductor industry. Our revenue is primarily dependent on semiconductor demand. Semiconductor demand, in turn, is impacted by changes in consumer demand, since in recent years the industry has seen a significant shift in demand from semiconductor devices for personal computers, which now are largely enterprise-related, to those for mobile devices, which are more consumer-oriented. Historically, semiconductor demand has fluctuated significantly due to economic and industry cycles and seasonal shifts in demand, which can dramatically affect our business, causing demand for our products to fluctuate. Furthermore, competitive dynamics within the semiconductor industry may impact our business. If the global economy or the semiconductor industry weakens, whether in general or as a result of specific factors, such as macroeconomic conditions, political instability or unpredictable events such as natural disasters, we could experience material adverse impacts on our results of operations and financial condition. In the past few years, uncertain or adverse economic conditions in certain geographies and changing supply and demand balances in areas served by us have impacted and may in the future impact demand for our products and services, in turn negatively impacting our results of operations. Any changes in capital spending by our customers or demand in the semiconductor industry may negatively impact our cash flow, our ability to service our debt and our results of operations.. Unfavorable global or regional economic conditions could have other negative impacts to our business or our results of operations, including depressing demand in a given region or industry, affecting our margins, constraining our operating flexibility and impacting our customers. Any excess capacity in our or our competitors' manufacturing facilities, or due to new entrants into the industry, could decrease our ability to maintain pricing and margins and generate profits. Adverse global economic, political and industry conditions could have other negative effects on our company. For instance, we could experience negative impacts on cash flows due to the inability of our customers to pay their obligations to us or our production process could be harmed if our suppliers cannot fulfill their obligations to us. In such circumstances, we may also have to reduce the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets, which could harm our financial position and results of operations.. Some additional factors that affect demand for our products include: the types of electronic devices that are in demand;. 16. Table of Contents. products that our customers may produce, such as logic IC devices versus memory devices; the various technology nodes at which those products are manufactured and whether our products are part of the production process; customers' specific manufacturing process integration schemes; the short order to delivery time for our products; quarter-to-quarter changes in customer order patterns; market share gains and losses; and pricing changes by us and our competitors.. Concentrated Customer Base - We are exposed to risks associated with a concentrated customer base.. Our customer base historically has been, and is becoming even more, concentrated as a result of economic and industry conditions. In fiscal 2017, three customers accounted for approximately 48% percent of Versum's global sales. In fiscal 2017, our top twenty customers accounted for approximately 83% of our global sales. Certain customers have experienced significant ownership or management changes, consolidated with other manufacturers, outsourced manufacturing activities, or engaged in collaboration arrangements with other manufacturers. Customers have entered into strategic alliances or industry consortia that have increased the influence of key industry participants in technology decisions made by their partners. Certain semiconductor and display customers are making an increasingly greater percentage of their respective industry's capital equipment investments.. In this environment, contracts or orders from a relatively limited number of semiconductor and display manufacturers have accounted for, and are expected to continue to account for, a substantial portion of our business, which may result in added complexities in managing customer relationships and transactions. The mix and sales to any single customer may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. If customers do not place orders, or they substantially reduce, delay or cancel orders, or if our products are not specified for our customers' products or production processes we may not be able to replace the business. Because our products are configured to customer specifications, the changing, rescheduling or canceling of orders may result in significant, non-recoverable costs. Changes in customer qualification requirements could result in significant delays in the sale of our products. Major customers may also seek and on occasion receive, pricing, payment, intellectual property-related, or other commercial terms that are less favorable to Versum. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Consolidation between customers, changes in technologies or solutions used by customers, changes in products manufactured by customers or in end-user demand for those products, selection of suppliers other than us, customer bankruptcies or customer departures from the industry may result in even fewer customers accounting for a high percentage of our revenue and reduced demand from any single major customer. The cancellation, reduction or deferral of purchases of our products by even a single customer could significantly reduce our revenues in any particular quarter. If we were to lose any of our significant customers, if our products are not specified for these customers' products or production processes, or if we suffer a material reduction in their purchase orders, revenue could decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, due to continued industry consolidation, the loss of any one customer or significant order may have a greater impact than we anticipate. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to secure contracts with our more substantial customers in the future.. Capital Expenditure Cycle - Our DS&S segment is dependent upon the capital expenditure cycles of our customers.. Our DS&S operating segment is dependent upon the capital expenditures of manufacturers of microelectronics, semiconductors, computers, wireless communications and other electronic products. DS&S depends upon the sale of its gas and chemical delivery systems and bulk special gas projects which are tied to the capital expenditures of our customers. The capital equipment market for microelectronics, semiconductor, and consumer electronics manufacturers has historically been characterized by sudden and severe cyclical variations in product supply and demand due to a number of factors including capacity utilization, timing of customers' new product introductions and demand for their products, inventory levels relative to demand and access to affordable capital. The timing, severity and duration of these market cycles are difficult or impossible to predict. As a result, business levels can vary significantly from quarter to quarter or year to year. Significant volatility in investment cycles in the market for microelectronics, and semiconductors used in electronic devices or in demand for consumer electronics may reduce demand for our products and may materially and adversely affect the DS&S operating segment. The degree of the impact of any downturn depends on a number of factors, including: the strength of the global economies, particularly those of Asia and the United States; the overall level of demand for consumer electronics products; the stability of global financial systems; and the overall health of the microelectronics, semiconductor, and consumer electronics industries.. 17. Table of Contents. Product Innovation - If we are not able to continue our technological innovation and successful commercial introduction of new products, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected.. The electronics and semiconductor industries into which we sell our products experience periodic technological change and product improvement. Our customers continually introduce new generations of products or require new technological capacity to further develop their products. Our customers rely on us to develop new materials to support their new product development. Our future growth will depend on our ability to gauge the direction of the commercial and technological progress in all key end-use markets and upon our ability to fund and successfully develop, manufacture and market products in such changing end-use markets. We will have to continue to identify, develop and market innovative products on a timely basis to replace or enhance existing products in order to maintain our profit margins and our competitive position. We may not be successful in developing new products and technology, either alone or with third parties, or licensing intellectual property rights from third parties on a commercially competitive basis. Our new products may not be accepted by our customers. If we fail to keep pace with the evolving technological innovations in our end-use markets on a competitive basis, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Intellectual Property Rights - If our intellectual property is compromised or copied by competitors, if our competitors were to develop similar or superior intellectual property or technology, or, if our intellectual property or technology violate third-party rights, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be negatively affected.. Intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, confidential information, trademarks, and trade names, are important to our business. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to protect and preserve our intellectual property rights. We endeavor to protect our material intellectual property rights in the jurisdictions in which our products are produced and used, and also in the jurisdictions into which our products are imported and used. Although we seek to enforce our intellectual property, because of the limitations of the legal systems in many countries, the effectiveness of patents obtained or that may in the future be obtained, if any, is uncertain. While we own and have applied for numerous patents and trademarks throughout the world covering aspects and improvements for many of our technologies, we may be unable to obtain protection for our intellectual property in key jurisdictions. Although we own and have applied for numerous patents and trademarks throughout the world covering aspects and improvements for many of our technologies, we may be unable to obtain protection for our intellectual property in key jurisdictions where we rely on local judicial enforcement of our patents and other proprietary rights. For example, although patents were granted in several countries related to a key technology in our advanced deposition product portfolio, the relevant patent was invalidated in South Korea in 2015 and is currently being challenged in Taiwan. Patent protection for individual products extends for varying periods in accordance with the legal life of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage. Our patents and other intellectual property rights may expire, be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, and rendered unenforceable or otherwise compromised. For example, some of our patents related to a key technology in our advanced deposition product portfolio will expire in 2018. An inability to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Similarly, third parties may assert claims against us and our customers and distributors alleging our products infringe upon or otherwise violate third party intellectual property rights. If we were to discover that our products infringe or otherwise violate the valid intellectual property rights of others, we might need to obtain licenses or substantially re-engineer our products to avoid infringement. We may not be able to obtain licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to re-engineer our products successfully.. We also rely materially upon unpatented proprietary technology, know-how and other trade secrets to maintain our competitive position. While we enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our proprietary expertise and other trade secrets, these agreements may not be enforceable in every jurisdiction or, even if legally enforceable, we may not have adequate remedies for breaches of such agreements. We also may not be able to readily detect breaches of such agreements. The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary technology, know-how or trade secrets could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. If we must take legal action to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights, any suits or proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of our resources and our management's attention, and we may not prevail in any such suits or proceedings. Any failure to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights could have an adverse. 18. Table of Contents. effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Raw Material Cost and Availability - Interruption in ordinary sources of supply or an inability to recover increases in raw material costs from customers could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We use a wide variety of raw materials, including tungsten powder, hydrogen fluoride, specialty silanes, specialty abrasives, ammonia, and nitrous oxide. Shortages or price escalation in these materials could negatively impact our financial results. For example, starting in late 2016 we experienced an ongoing nitrous oxide supply disruption resulting from reduced production by a key supplier. We may not be able to find alternative sources of supply in sufficient quantities to meet the needs of our customers, and may not be able to raise prices to recover any increases in raw material costs due to competitive pressures. Increases in raw material costs that cannot be passed on to customers for competitive or other reasons could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Even where costs are successfully passed through, price increases may result in lower sales volume.. Suppliers - If any of our sole source or limited source suppliers, or suppliers that were required to satisfy our customers' rigorous qualification requirements, were unable to deliver to us in a timely manner or at all, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Our operations depend on obtaining sufficient supplies of raw materials and components used in our manufacturing processes. In certain cases, qualification requirements in customers' manufacturing processes limit us to certain qualified suppliers. In the event that it becomes necessary for us to find another supplier, we would first be required to ensure such new supplier could be qualified through our customers' rigorous qualification processes for suppliers. Additionally, certain of our businesses rely on limited source suppliers to provide raw materials, such as hydrogen chloride and nitrous oxide, which are critical materials for certain of our customers. Although we have business continuity plans in place, our customers may be unwilling to qualify a new supplier, such suppliers may experience financial difficulties, be unable to deliver products to us in a timely manner, have insufficient capacity to meet our requirements, or suffer business disruption resulting from damage to or destruction of their facilities due to accidents, natural disasters or other events, and we might not be able to secure an alternative source of supply in a timely manner or at all. These events could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Nature of Chemical Manufacturing Business - Hazards associated with specialty chemical manufacturing could disrupt our operations or the operations of our suppliers or customers, having a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Due to the nature of our business and those of some of our key suppliers, we are exposed to the hazards associated with specialty chemical manufacturing and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and waste in our manufacturing facilities or distribution centers and those of our suppliers, such as fires, explosions and accidents. Our operations could be impacted by catastrophic events outside our control, including natural disasters and severe weather conditions such as hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, and storms, epidemics, or acts of war and terrorism. Any such event could cause a material business disruption that could affect our ability to produce and distribute our products and have an adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of our Company.. Our operations by their nature involve the use and manufacture of hazardous materials. Other hazards include piping and storage tank leaks and ruptures, mechanical failure, employee or third-party exposure to hazardous substances, lack of process safety, chemical spills and other discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases. These hazards may cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to property and contamination of the environment, which could lead to government fines or work stoppage injunctions and lawsuits by injured persons. Such events could impact our suppliers or customers, in which case raw materials may be unavailable to us, or our customers may be unable to purchase or accept our products and services. Any such occurrence could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 19. Table of Contents. Competition - The markets in which we compete are highly competitive. Our inability to compete effectively could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We face significant competition from major international producers as well as smaller regional competitors. Our most significant competitors include major chemicals and materials manufacturers and diversified companies, a number of which have revenues and capital resources exceeding ours. In addition, our products are facing increasing competition from market participants in Asia. We expect to see more competition as China continues to invest in semiconductor manufacturing.. We face risk that certain events, such as new product development by our competitors, changing customer needs, production advances for competing products, price changes in raw materials and product components, our failure to secure or protect patents or the expiration of patents, could result in declining demand for our products as our customers switch to substitute products or undertake manufacturing of such products on their own. If we are unable to develop, produce or market our products to effectively compete against our competitors, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may materially suffer.. We believe that our customers are increasingly looking for strong, long-term relationships with a few key suppliers that help them improve product performance, reduce costs, or support new product development. As a result, we may need to invest and spend more on research and development and marketing costs to strengthen existing customer relationships, as well as attract new customers. Our indebtedness could limit our flexibility to react to these industry trends and our ability to remain competitive.. Operational, Political, and Legal Risks of International Operations - Our international operations may be adversely impacted by political or economic instability, nationalization or expropriation of property, or undeveloped property rights and legal systems.. The majority of our revenue is derived from international operations. For the period ended September 30, 2017, 73% of our revenue was generated by sales to customers outside of the United States, including in South Korea, Taiwan, China and the European Union. Our operations in certain foreign jurisdictions, including manufacturing, research and development, sales and customer support, may be affected directly and indirectly by global and local regulation, and economic and political conditions and may be subject to disruption due to:. • the United Kingdom's formal trigger of the process for its exit from the European Union, and related negotiations, may cause instability in European economies and may negatively impact the outlook for the global economy;. • political, economic and social instability, including hyperinflationary conditions, regional and international hostilities and regional and international responses to these hostilities;. • unanticipated government actions, such as trade wars, nationalization of private enterprises and expropriation risk;. • failure to maintain compliance with multiple legal and regulatory systems and increased difficulty in ensuring compliance by employees, agents, and contractors with the laws of multiple jurisdictions;. • increased difficulty in controlling and maintaining foreign operations from the United States;. • potential difficulties in protecting intellectual property;. • controls on the investment, repatriation and exchange rates of capital;. • potentially adverse tax consequences, including the possible imposition of new taxes, a new corporate tax regime, increased taxes on repatriation or other payments, or challenges to the taxation of the Separation from Air Products in connection with the spin-off in such countries; and. • cancellation of contractual relationships within these jurisdictions without full compensation for loss.. In addition, economic and political conditions within foreign jurisdictions, social unrest, or strained relations between. 20. Table of Contents. countries can cause fluctuations in demand, price volatility, supply disruptions, or loss of property. Our developing market operations may be subject to greater risks than those faced by our operations in mature economies, including geopolitical, legal, economic and talent risks. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Regulatory Compliance - We are subject to extensive government regulation in jurisdictions around the globe. Any changes in regulations addressing, among other things, environmental compliance, anticorruption, sanctions, import/export controls, and taxes, may negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to extensive government regulation in the United States and in the foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, on matters as diverse as anticorruption, import/export controls, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, anti-money-laundering, environmental and health and safety, and employment and labor relations. Compliance with laws and regulations, including as a result of changes in those laws and regulations from time to time, may involve significant costs or require changes in business practice that could materially impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. For example, our subsidiaries are subject to rules and regulations related to anti-bribery prohibitions of the U.S. and other countries, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\"), the United Kingdom Bribery Act, the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act of Korea (commonly known as the \"Kim Young-ran Act\"), and the China Anti-Unfair Competition Law. Moreover, export control and economic embargo regulations limit the ability to market, sell, distribute or otherwise transfer products or technology to prohibited countries or persons. In addition, we are subject to the extensive import, export, storage and transportation regulations of each of the countries where we operate due to the hazardous classification of our products. The international nature of our operations, where legal systems outside of the United States may be less understood by us, further increases the difficulty of compliance. Compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. The FCPA, the United Kingdom Bribery Act, Korea's Kim Young-ran Act, the China Anti-Unfair Competition Law, and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons. There has been an increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity in recent years, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the U.S. Department of Justice and the SEC, increased enforcement activity by non-U.S. regulators, and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. We operate in parts of the world that are recognized as having government and commercial corruption and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from improper conduct of our employees or business partners. Actual or alleged violations can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management.. Our failure to comply with U.S. federal or state or non-U.S. laws, regulations or policies, many of which are aggressively enforced, could subject us to substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, and curtailment of operations in the U.S. or other applicable jurisdictions. Moreover, any violation of applicable laws or regulations by our suppliers could interrupt or otherwise disrupt our sourcing or adversely affect our reputation. While we do not control these suppliers or their labor practices, negative publicity regarding the management of facilities by, production methods of, or materials used by any of our suppliers could adversely affect our reputation and sales, and force us to locate alternative suppliers, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial conditions, and results of operations. Likewise, any public investigation or inquiry into alleged violations of these regulations could have an adverse effect on our reputation and the value of our common stock. Any of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Substantial Leverage - Our available cash and access to additional capital may be limited by our leverage and debt service obligations.. We maintain significant leverage and have material debt service obligations. This level of indebtedness could have important negative consequences, including:. • We will need to use a substantial portion of our available cash flow to pay interest and principal on our debt, which will reduce the amount of money available to finance our operations and other business activities.. 21. Table of Contents. • We may have difficulty obtaining financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, acquisitions or other purposes.. • Our debt level increases our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions.. • Our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in our industry in general.. • If our foreign cash is needed to pay interest or principal on our U.S. debt, we may be required to accrue and pay material amounts of tax on repatriation of that cash.. • A portion of our debt has a variable interest rate, and if interest rates increase, our interest expense could increase significantly, affecting earnings and reducing cash flow available for working capital, expenditures, acquisitions, and other purposes.. • Our substantial amount of debt and the amount we need to pay to service our debt obligations could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any competitors that have less debt.. • Our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt instruments which, among other things, may require us to maintain specified financial ratios and limit our ability to incur debt and sell assets, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could cause our lenders to terminate commitments under our debt agreements, declare all amounts, including accrued interest, due and payable, and enforce their rights in respect of collateral.. Additional Capital Needs - We may need additional capital in the future and may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms.. We may require additional capital in the future to finance our growth and development, implement further marketing and sales activities, fund ongoing research and development activities, fund mergers or acquisitions and meet general working capital needs. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including acceptance of and demand for our products, the extent to which we invest in new technology and research and development projects, and the status and timing of these developments, as well as general availability of capital from debt and equity markets.. However, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on terms we find acceptable, if at all. If we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of preferred stock, the terms of the debt or the preferred stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. If we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, your ownership in us would be diluted. Also, regardless of the terms of our debt or equity financing, our agreements and obligations under the Tax Matters Agreement with Air Products entered into in connection with the Separation may limit our ability to issue stock. If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, it may impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Additionally, our failure to maintain expected credit ratings on our debt securities could negatively affect our ability to access capital and could increase our interest expense on certain existing and future indebtedness. We expect the credit rating agencies to periodically review our capital structure and the quality and stability of our earnings. Deterioration in our capital structure or the quality and stability of our earnings could result in a downgrade of the credit ratings on our debt securities. Any negative ratings actions could constrain the capital available to us and could limit our access to funding for our operations and increase the cost of such capital. If, as a result, our ability to access capital when needed becomes constrained, our interest costs could increase, which may impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Restrictions Under Debt Agreements - The agreements governing our indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations, and hamper our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions.. The agreements governing our indebtedness (including our senior credit facilities and senior notes) contain, and the agreements governing future indebtedness and future debt securities may contain, restrictive covenants, such as financial. 22. Table of Contents. maintenance covenants and other covenants restricting our ability to sell assets; pay dividends and make other distributions; redeem or repurchase our capital stock; incur additional debt and issue capital stock; create liens; consolidate, merge or sell substantially all of our assets; enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; make loans, investments or advances; repay subordinated indebtedness; undergo a change in control; and enter into sale and leaseback transactions, that may limit our operations, including our ability to engage in certain activities that may be in our long-term best interests. These restrictive covenants may limit us and our restricted subsidiaries from taking certain corporate actions, or may give rights to the holders of our indebtedness under the agreements governing our indebtedness if we or our restricted subsidiaries take such actions.. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of some or all of our indebtedness, which could lead to bankruptcy, reorganization or insolvency.. Regulation of Raw Materials, Products and Facilities - Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected by regulation to which our raw materials, products and facilities are subject.. Some of the raw materials we handle, and our products and facilities, are subject to government regulation. These regulations affect the manufacturing processes, handling, storage, transportation, uses and applications of our products. In addition, some of our products contain raw materials, such as hydrogen chloride, that are deemed hazardous materials. The use and handling of these materials is regulated and some of these regulations require product registrations, which also are subject to renewal and potential revocation. These regulations and changes to the current regulatory framework under which we operate may affect our ability to market certain materials we produce. In addition, some of these products, such as certain process gases and hydrides, are subject to significant restrictions on storage and transportation via certain types of carriers.. There is also a risk that key raw materials or one or more of our products may be found to have, or be recharacterized as having, a toxicological or health-related impact on the environment or on our customers or employees. If such a finding or recharacterization occurs, the relevant raw materials or products, including products of customers incorporating our products, may be recalled or banned or we may incur increased costs in order to comply with new regulatory requirements. Changes in regulations, or their interpretation, may also affect the marketability of certain of our products. We cannot predict how these and other findings from regulatory agencies may affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Environmental, Health and Safety Compliance - Costs and expenses resulting from compliance with environmental, health and safety regulations may negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to extensive federal, state, local, and foreign environmental and health and safety laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions in the air; discharges to land and water; transportation safety; safety of employees and end product consumers; and the generation, handling, treatment, and disposal of hazardous waste and other materials. Compliance with laws and regulations and any failure to comply with such laws and regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practice that could materially impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our production facilities require numerous operating permits that are subject to renewal requirements. Due to the nature of these requirements and changes in our operations, our operations may exceed limits under permits or we may not have proper permits. We may incur substantial costs, including fines, damages, criminal or civil sanctions and remediation costs, or experience interruptions in our operations, for violations arising under these laws or permit requirements.. The nature of our operations also exposes us to risk of liability for contamination, personal injury or third party impacts if hazardous materials are released into the environment, which could result in substantial losses, reputational harm, increase in our insurance cost or otherwise adversely impact our results of operations or our common stock.. Environmental and health and safety laws are subject to change and have tended to become more strict over time. Such changes in environmental or health and safety laws or their interpretation, or the enactment of new laws, could result in materially increased capital expenditures and compliance costs. For example, U.S. and international commitments to reduce world-wide emissions of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, could result in legal requirements that materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Similarly, the Frank R. Lautenberg Chemical Safety for the 21st Century Act reforms the TSCA by requiring EPA to prioritize and evaluate the environmental and health risks of existing chemicals and providing EPA with greater authority to regulate chemicals posing unreasonable risks. The law also requires that EPA make an affirmative finding that a new chemical will not pose an unreasonable risk before such. 23. Table of Contents. chemical can be manufactured or imported. TSCA reform also incorporates additional thresholds and checks to substantiate CBI claims. These reforms update TSCA so that it operates in a similar fashion to the REACH legislation in Europe. Regulations similar to REACH have been enacted in South Korea and Taiwan.  Any such changes could increase our cost of doing business and have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Cyber Security - The protection of the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our business applications, infrastructure services and data is important to our business. A compromise of our data or a disruption of our information technology applications or services could damage our reputation and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We depend on information technology to protect the business applications and infrastructure services that enable our business to operate efficiently, interface with customers and maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. Our information technology capabilities are currently delivered through a combination of Air Products and other external service providers. As we separated our business applications and infrastructure services from Air Products, we adopted a \"cloud-first\", \"software-as- a-service preferred\" enterprise IT strategy that increases our dependency on the security controls of our external service providers. If we, together with our service providers, do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to our confidential business information through a security breach. As with all large systems, our information systems could be penetrated by outside parties' intent on extracting information, corrupting information, or disrupting business processes. The business applications and infrastructure services we depend on may be subject to sophisticated cyber security threats. We rely on operations technology to protect the industrial controls systems at our manufacturing sites. A cyber breach that disrupts our process safety controls could cause the disruption of our operations and even cause a significant safety incident that threatens life or property. Unauthorized access could disrupt our business operations, result in the loss of assets, intellectual property, employee or customer data, and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We rely on information security measures to protect our company, employee, customer and vendor information. Our business involves the use, storage, and transmission of this information. The protection of such information, as well as our information, is critical to us. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new, differing and constantly changing requirements such as the General Data Protection Regulation in the European Union. We also, from time to time, export sensitive customer data and technical information to recipients outside the United States. Breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery, or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers, or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, result in fines and penalties, damage our reputation, or otherwise harm our business.. Foreign Currency Impacts - Our reported results could be adversely affected by currency exchange rates and currency devaluation could impair our competitiveness.. Due to our international operations, we transact in many foreign currencies, including but not limited to the South Korean Won, New Taiwan Dollar, Japanese Yen, Chinese Renminbi and the Euro. As a result, we are subject to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported net revenues and operating income will be reduced because the local currency will be translated into fewer U.S. dollars. During periods of economic crisis, local currencies may be devalued significantly against the U.S. dollar, potentially reducing our margin.. We also incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into a transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity. We may not be able to effectively manage our currency translation and transaction risk, and, as a result, volatility of currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We may enter into forward exchange contracts and other financial contracts in an attempt to mitigate the impact of transactional currency rate fluctuations. However, there can be no assurance that such actions will eliminate any adverse impact from variation in currency rates, and in some cases such actions may exacerbate the impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 24. Table of Contents. Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings - Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings, including those involving customer claims, antitrust, tax, environmental, or other matters.. We are subject to litigation and regulatory proceedings in the normal course of business and could become subject to additional claims in the future, some of which could be material. We face risks arising from various unasserted and asserted litigation matters, including, but not limited to, product liability, patent infringement, regulatory claims, and claims for third party property damage or personal injury stemming from alleged environmental or other torts. In addition, we may have obligations to indemnify Air Products under the terms of the Separation Agreement we entered into with Air Products on September 29, 2016 (the \"Separation Agreement\") for certain product liability, environmental, personal injury, tax or other claims. Due to the nature of our products and services and how they are used by our customers, we may be subject to claims by our customers alleging our products or services, or our failure or inability to deliver products and services, impacted their production yield. While we seek to limit our liability in our commercial contractual arrangements, there are no guarantees that each contract will contain suitable limitations of liability or that limitations of liability will be enforceable at law or that we will be able to obtain insurance for any losses we incur. Also, the outcome of existing legal proceedings may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of litigation, including regulatory matters, are often difficult to predict reliably. Various factors or developments can lead us to change current estimates of liabilities and related insurance receivables, where applicable, or make such estimates for matters previously not susceptible to reasonable estimates, such as a judicial ruling or judgment, a settlement, regulatory developments, or changes in applicable law. While we believe our existing legal proceedings and claims will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, a future adverse ruling, settlement, claim or unfavorable development could result in charges that could have such a material adverse effect.. Risks Associated with Acquisitions - We may not be able to complete acquisitions, or successfully integrate acquisitions we may undertake in the future.. Our strategy includes acquiring other businesses. The process of combining or acquiring businesses involves risks. We may face difficulty integrating the new operations, technologies, products and services of future acquisitions or combinations, and may incur unanticipated expenses related to such transactions. The difficulties of combining operations may be magnified by integrating personnel with differing business backgrounds and corporate cultures. Failure to successfully manage and integrate acquisitions with our existing operations could lead to the potential loss of customers of the acquired business, the potential loss of employees who may be vital to the new operations, the potential loss of business opportunities or other adverse consequences that could affect our financial condition and results of operations. Even if integration occurs successfully, failure of any future acquisition or combination to achieve levels of anticipated sales growth, and profitability, productivity comparable with our existing operations, or expected synergies related to such transaction, or to otherwise perform as expected, may adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. In addition, certain acquisitions may trigger regulations designed to monitor competition and would therefore require regulatory approval. We cannot predict whether such authorities will approve or whether we would be able to complete any acquisitions we seek to accomplish in the future.. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and of Delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock.. Versum's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain, and Delaware law contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with Versum's board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others:. • the inability of our stockholders to act by written consent;. • the inability of our stockholders to call special meetings;. • rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings;. 25. Table of Contents. • the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; and. • the ability of our directors, and not stockholders, to fill vacancies (including those resulting from an enlargement of our board of directors) on our board of directors.. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the DGCL. Section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that (without prior board approval) acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15 percent of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or its affiliate becomes the holder of more than 15 percent of the corporation's outstanding voting stock.. We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. However, these provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or the removal of existing management, of deterring potential acquirers from making an offer to our stockholders and of limiting any opportunity to realize premiums over prevailing market prices for our common stock in connection therewith. This could be the case notwithstanding that a majority of our stockholders might benefit from such a change in control or offer.. Risks Related to the Separation. Our historical financial results are not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as an independent, publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results.. Our historical financial results prior to our Separation may not reflect what our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would have been had we been an independent, publicly traded company during the periods presented or what our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be in the future when we are an independent company. This is primarily because:. • Prior to our Separation, our business was operated by Air Products as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent, publicly traded company. In addition, prior to our Separation, Air Products, or one of its affiliates, performed significant corporate functions for us, including information technology, accounting, tax, finance, legal, insurance, human resources, compliance and other administrative activities. Our historical financial statements reflect allocations of corporate expenses from Air Products for these and similar functions, which are not necessarily representative of the costs we will incur for similar services as an independent company. We are responsible for the additional costs associated with being an independent, publicly traded company, including costs related to corporate governance and external reporting;. • Our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital expenditures, historically have been satisfied as part of the company-wide cash management practices of Air Products. While our business historically has generated sufficient cash to finance our working capital and other cash requirements, we no longer have access to Air Products' cash pool. We may need to obtain additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities or other arrangements; and. • Other significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing, tax profile and business operations as a result of our operating as a company separate from Air Products. The historical combined financial data include deferred tax assets and associated valuation allowances for U.S. and certain foreign net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards that were utilized against Air Products income and are not available as future deductions or credits on our tax returns.. We incurred interest expense as part of our debt in connection with the Separation and Distribution, whereas our historical financial data only includes debt incurred by certain Versum subsidiaries and does not include an allocation of interest expense attributable to the portion of Air Products' debt that has supported our operations.. 26. Table of Contents. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant costs completing our transition to an independent, publicly traded company, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We have incurred and expect to incur certain ongoing costs associated with operating as an independent, publicly traded company. Prior to our Separation, we received a variety of services from Air Products, including information technology, accounting, tax, finance, legal, insurance, human resources, compliance and other administrative activities, the effective and appropriate performance of which is critical to our operations. In support of our transition to an independent company, we expect to spend $20-25 million of additional capital for relocating some of our infrastructure and establishing our own IT systems over fiscal year 2018. The ongoing costs of the Separation may adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For more information regarding the Separation and our anticipated costs to operate as an independent, publicly traded company, see Note 1, \"Basis of Presentation\", of the Annual Consolidated Financial Statements.. In connection with our Separation we assumed certain liabilities. If we are required to make payments pursuant to our indemnification obligations to Air Products, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted. In addition, Air Products may indemnify us for certain liabilities. Air Products' indemnity may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of liabilities for which it will be allocated responsibility, and Air Products may not be able to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future.. Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, the Employee Matters Agreement and the Tax Matters Agreement, each of which we entered into with Air Products on September 29, 2016, we agreed to assume, and indemnify Air Products for, certain liabilities for uncapped amounts, which may include, among other items, associated defense costs, settlement amounts and judgments. Payments pursuant to these indemnities may be significant and could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax-free nature of the Distribution and certain related transactions. Third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for liabilities of Air Products' business. Air Products agreed to indemnify us for such liabilities, but such indemnity from Air Products may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and Air Products may not be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Air Products any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. Each of these risks could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. If the Distribution of Versum common stock from Air Products or certain related transactions were to fail to qualify as tax-free to Air Products stockholders, then Versum could be subject to significant tax liability or tax indemnity obligations.. Air Products received an opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, tax counsel to Air Products, on the basis of certain facts, representations, covenants and assumptions set forth in such opinion, substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Distribution of Versum common stock from Air Products and certain related transactions should qualify as a transaction that generally is tax-free to Air Products and Air Products' stockholders, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code.. Notwithstanding the tax opinion, the IRS could determine on audit that the Distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the facts, assumptions, representations or covenants set forth in the tax opinion are not correct or have been violated, or that the Distribution should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of a significant change in stock or asset ownership after the Distribution, or if the IRS were to disagree with the conclusions of the tax opinion. If the Distribution were determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, Air Products and its stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities.. Under the Tax Matters Agreement, Versum is generally required to indemnify Air Products against taxes incurred by Air Products that arise as a result of Versum taking or failing to take, as the case may be, certain actions that may result in the Distribution of Versum common stock from Air Products or certain related transactions failing to qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Under the Tax Matters Agreement, Versum may also be required to indemnify Air Products for other tax liabilities, which could materially adversely affect Versum's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 27. Table of Contents. We may not be able to engage in certain corporate transactions for two years following the Distribution.. To preserve the tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes to Air Products and its stockholders of the Distribution and certain related transactions, under the Tax Matters Agreement, Versum is restricted from taking any action that prevents the Distribution and certain related transactions from qualifying as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, under the Tax Matters Agreement, we are prohibited, except in certain circumstances, from repurchasing or taking certain other actions with respect to certain of our debt issued in connection with the Distribution, or, for the two-year period following the Distribution:. • entering into any transaction resulting in the acquisition of 40 percent or more of our stock or substantially all of our assets, whether by merger or otherwise;. • merging, consolidating or liquidating;. • issuing equity securities beyond certain thresholds;. • repurchasing our capital stock;. • ceasing to actively conduct our business; or. • taking or failing to take any other action that would cause the Distribution or certain related transactions to fail to qualify as tax-free.. These restrictions may limit our ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or other transactions that we may believe to be in the best interests of our stockholders or that might increase the value of our business. Under the Tax Matters Agreement, we are required to indemnify Air Products against any tax liabilities resulting from the acquisition of our stock or assets, even if we do not participate in or otherwise facilitate the acquisition.. Certain of our directors and officers may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their equity ownership in Air Products, and one of our directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because he also serves as an officer and on the board of directors of Air Products.. Certain of our directors and executive officers may own shares of Air Products' common stock, and the individual holdings may be significant for some of these individuals compared to their total assets. In addition, Seifi Ghasemi, who serves as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Air Products, also serves as a director of Versum and our non-executive Chairman. This ownership or service to both companies may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for Air Products and us. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute that may arise between Air Products and us regarding the terms of the agreements governing the internal reorganization, the Distribution and the relationship thereafter between the companies, including with respect to the indemnification of certain matters. We have agreed with Air Products that officers and directors who serve at both companies will recuse themselves from decisions where conflicts arise due to their positions at both companies.. The Separation and Distribution and related internal reorganization transactions may expose Versum to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal dividend requirements.. If Versum files for bankruptcy or is otherwise determined or deemed to be insolvent under federal bankruptcy laws, a court could deem the Separation and Distribution or certain internal reorganization transactions undertaken by Air Products in connection with the Separation to be a fraudulent conveyance or transfer. Fraudulent conveyances or transfers are defined to include transfers made or obligations incurred with the actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud current or future creditors or transfers made or obligations incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value when the debtor was insolvent, or that rendered the debtor insolvent, inadequately capitalized or unable to pay its debts as they become due. A court could void the transactions or impose substantial liabilities upon Versum, which could adversely affect Versum's financial condition and its results of operations. Among other things, the court could require Versum stockholders to return to Air Products some or all of the shares of Versum common stock issued in the Separation and Distribution, or require Versum to fund. 28. Table of Contents. liabilities of other companies involved in the reorganization transactions for the benefit of creditors.. The Distribution of Versum common stock is also subject to review under state corporate distribution statutes. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\"), a corporation may only pay dividends to its stockholders either (i) out of its surplus (net assets minus capital) or (ii) if there is no such surplus, out of its net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared or the preceding fiscal year. Although Air Products intended to make the Distribution of Versum common stock entirely out of surplus, Versum cannot assure you that a court will not later determine that some or all of the Distribution to Air Products stockholders was unlawful.. 29. Table of Contents"
