[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Our business is subject to various risks. Set forth below are certain of the more important risks that we face and that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results. Our business also could be affected by other risks that are presently unknown to us or that we currently believe are immaterial to our business.. Risks Relating to our Business. The paper industry has been facing a long-term structural decline and our profitability has been adversely impacted by such decline.. The coated paper industry faces a long-term, structural decline. From 2014 to 2017, demand for printing and writing paper in the United States fell by roughly 16%. U.S. demand for coated freesheet has declined 11% from 2014 to 2017. Similarly, U.S. demand for coated groundwood has declined 23% from 2014 to 2017. The demand for coated paper is expected to continue to steadily decline in the future, with market volumes in 2018 projected to be 3% below 2017 levels.. Fluctuations in supply and demand for our products could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The paper industry is a commodity market to a significant extent and is subject to cyclical market pressures. For example, from 2010 to 2014, prior to the acquisition of NewPage, we experienced a year-over-year average revenue decline of approximately 4.9% partly due to the prolonged decline in demand for coated paper.. A decline in general economic conditions may increase unemployment or lower gross domestic product growth rates to adversely affect demand for our products by our customers. During an economic downturn, end customers may reduce magazine subscriptions, contributing to lower demand for our products and advertising in printed magazines and catalogs may also decline, each of which may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Foreign overcapacity also could result in an increase in the supply of paper products available in the North American market. An increased supply of paper available in North America could put downward pressure on prices and/or cause us to lose sales to competitors, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We cannot assure you that our exploration of strategic alternatives will result in a transaction or that any such transaction would be successful, and the process of exploring strategic alternatives or its conclusion could adversely impact our business and our stock price.. In September 2017, we announced the formation of a Strategic Alternatives Committee, comprised solely of independent directors. The Strategic Alternatives Committee is leading our efforts to identify and evaluate a range of potential strategic transaction alternatives, including the possible sale or merger of our entire company or the possible sale of some of our mills. This strategic alternatives process is ongoing and we have retained Houlihan Lokey Capital, Inc. to assist in the process.. There can be no assurances that the strategic alternatives process will result in the announcement or consummation of any strategic transaction, or that any resulting plans or transactions will yield additional value for shareholders. Any potential transaction would be dependent on a number of factors that may be beyond our control, including, among other things, market conditions, industry trends, the interest of third parties in a potential transaction with Verso and the availability of financing to potential buyers on reasonable terms.. The process of exploring strategic alternatives could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could incur substantial expenses associated with identifying and evaluating potential strategic alternatives, including those related to equity compensation, severance pay and legal, accounting and financial advisory fees. In addition, the process may be time consuming and disruptive to our business operations, could divert the attention of management and the Board of Directors from our business, could negatively impact Verso's ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees, and could expose us to potential litigation in connection with this process or any resulting transaction. The public announcement of a strategic alternative may also yield a negative impact on operating results if prospective or existing customers are reluctant to commit to new or renewal orders or if existing customers decide to shift their business to a competitor. Further, speculation regarding any developments related to the review of strategic alternatives and perceived uncertainties related to the future of Verso could cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly.. Developments in alternative media adversely affect the demand for our products.. Trends in advertising, electronic data transmission and storage, and the internet have had and likely will continue to have adverse effects on traditional print media, including the use of and demand for our products and those of our customers. Our. 10. magazine and catalog publishing customers may increasingly use (both for content and advertising), and compete with businesses that use, other forms of media and advertising and electronic data transmission and storage, particularly the internet, instead of paper made by us. As the use of these alternative media grows, the demand for our paper products likely will decline.. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive.. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive. Competition is based largely on price. We compete with foreign producers, some of which are lower cost producers than we are or are subsidized by certain foreign governments. We also face competition from numerous North American coated paper manufacturers. Some of our competitors have advantages over us, including lower raw material and labor costs and are subject to fewer environmental and governmental regulations.. Furthermore, due to the trend towards consolidation in our industry, some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do or may be better positioned than we are to compete for certain opportunities. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete effectively in the markets we serve.. Competition could cause us to lower our prices or lose sales to competitors, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the following factors will affect our ability to compete:. • product availability;. • the quality of our products;. • our breadth of product offerings;. • our ability to maintain mill efficiencies and to achieve high operating rates;. • manufacturing costs per ton;. • customer service and our ability to distribute our products on time; and. • the availability and/or cost of wood fiber, market pulp, chemicals, energy and other raw materials and labor.. Rising postal costs could weaken demand for our paper products.. A significant portion of paper is used in periodicals, magazines, catalogs, fliers and other promotional mailings. Many of these materials are distributed through the mail. Future increases in the cost of postage could reduce the frequency of mailings, reduce the number of pages in magazine and advertising materials, and/or cause advertisers, catalog and magazine publishers to use alternate methods to distribute their materials. Any of the foregoing could decrease the demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our business. Furthermore, we may have credit exposure to these customers through extension of trade credits.. Our largest customer, Veritiv Corporation accounted for approximately 19% of our net sales in 2017. In 2017, our ten largest customers (including Veritiv Corporation) accounted for approximately 56% of our net sales. The loss of, or reduction in orders from, any of these customers or other customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as could significant customer disputes regarding shipments, price, quality, or other matters.. Furthermore, we extend trade credit to certain of these customers to facilitate the purchase of our products and we rely on these customers' creditworthiness and ability to obtain credit from lenders. Accordingly, a bankruptcy or a significant deterioration in the financial condition of any of these significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, due to a reduction in purchases, a longer collection cycle or an inability to collect accounts receivable.. We have limited ability to control the pricing of our products or pass through increases in our costs to our customers. Decreases in demand and prices, or increases in costs, for printing and writing paper could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our earnings are sensitive to price changes in coated paper. Fluctuations in paper prices (and coated paper prices in particular) historically have had a direct effect on our net income (loss) and EBITDA for several reasons:. 11. • Market prices for paper products are a function of supply and demand, factors over which we have limited control. We therefore have limited ability to control the pricing of our products. Market prices of grade No. 3, 60 lb. basis weight paper, which is an industry benchmark for coated freesheet paper pricing, have fluctuated since 2000 from a high of $1,105 per ton to a low of $740 per ton. In addition, market prices of grade No. 5, 34 lb. basis weight paper, which is an industry benchmark for coated groundwood paper pricing, have fluctuated between a high of $1,130 per ton to a low of $795 per ton over the same period. Prices are expected to continue to recover in 2018. As market conditions determine the price for our paper products, the price for our products could fall below our cash production costs.. • Market prices for paper products typically are not directly affected by raw material costs or other costs of sales, and consequently we have limited ability to pass through increases in these raw materials and/or other sales costs to our customers absent increases in the market price. Thus, even though our costs may increase, we may not have the ability to increase the prices for our products, or the prices for our products may decline.. • The manufacturing of coated paper is highly capital-intensive and a large portion of our operating costs are fixed. Additionally, paper machines are large, complex machines that operate more efficiently when operated continuously. Consequently, both we and our competitors typically continue to run our machines whenever marginal sales exceed the marginal costs, adversely impacting prices at times of lower demand.. Therefore, our ability to achieve acceptable margins is principally dependent on (a) our cost structure, (b) changes in the prices of raw materials, electricity, energy and fuel, which will represent a large component of our operating costs and will fluctuate based upon factors beyond our control and (c) general conditions in the paper market including the demand for paper products, the amount of foreign imports, the amount spent on advertising, the circulation of magazines and catalogs, the use of electronic readers and other devices and postal rates. Any one or more of these economic conditions could affect our sales and operating costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are involved in continuous manufacturing processes with a high degree of fixed costs. Any interruption in the operations of our manufacturing facilities may affect our operating performance.. We run our paper machines on a nearly continuous basis for maximum efficiency. Any downtime at any of our paper mills, including as a result of or in connection with planned maintenance and capital expenditure projects, results in unabsorbed fixed costs that could negatively affect our results of operations for the period in which we experience the downtime. Due to the extreme operating conditions inherent in some of our manufacturing processes, we may incur unplanned business interruptions from time to time and, as a result, we may not generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our operational needs. In addition, the geographic areas where our production is located and where we conduct our business may be affected by natural disasters, including snow storms, forest fires and flooding. Such natural disasters could cause our mills to stop running, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, during periods of weak demand for paper products, such as the current market, or periods of rising costs, we have experienced and may in the future experience market-related downtime, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may be required to record significant closure costs and long-lived asset impairment or accelerated depreciation charges.. We have responded to changing market dynamics by optimizing assets and streamlining our production, including idling or shutting down certain paper machines and facilities. For example, in November 2016, we announced the closure of our Memphis office headquarters and relocation of our Corporate headquarters to Miamisburg, Ohio; in August 2015, we announced plans to shut down the No. 1 pulp dryer and No. 2 paper machine at our Androscoggin Mill in Jay, Maine, and to indefinitely idle our mill in Wickliffe, Kentucky; in April 2016, we announced our decision to permanently close the mill in Wickliffe, Kentucky. If demand for our products continues to decline, or if the pace of decline accelerates, it may be necessary to curtail production even further, or permanently shut down certain machines and facilities. In addition to the potential loss of production, curtailments and shutdowns could result in asset impairments or accelerated depreciation and cash closure costs for the affected facilities, including restructuring charges and exit or disposal costs, which could negatively impact our cash flows and materially affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Losses related to the impairment of long-lived assets to be held and used are recognized when circumstances, such as continuing losses or demand declines in certain businesses, indicate the carrying value of an asset group may not be recoverable. When indicators that the carrying value of an asset group may not be recoverable are triggered, we evaluate the carrying value of the asset group in relation to its estimated undiscounted future cash flows. If the carrying value of an asset group is greater than the estimated undiscounted future cash flows to be generated by the asset group, an impairment charge is. 12. recognized based on the excess of the asset group's carrying value over its fair value. If it is determined that the carrying value of an asset group is recoverable, we review and adjust, as necessary, the estimated useful lives of the assets in the group. If there were to be a triggering event, it is possible that we could record non-cash long-lived asset impairment or accelerated depreciation charges in future periods, which would be recorded as operating expenses and would directly and negatively impact our reported results of operations.. If we are unable to obtain energy or raw materials, including petroleum-based chemicals at favorable prices, or at all, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We purchase substantial amounts of energy, wood fiber, market pulp, chemicals and other raw materials from third parties. We may experience shortages of energy supplies or raw materials or be forced to seek alternative sources of supply. If we are forced to seek alternative sources of supply, we may not be able to do so on terms as favorable as our current terms or at all. The prices for energy and many of our raw materials, especially petroleum-based chemicals, have recently been volatile and are expected to remain volatile for the foreseeable future. Chemical suppliers that use petroleum-based products in the manufacture of their chemicals may, due to a supply shortage and cost increase, ration the amount of chemicals available to us and/or we may not be able to obtain the chemicals we need to operate our business at favorable prices, if at all. In addition, certain specialty chemicals that we currently purchase are available only from a small number of suppliers. If any of these suppliers were to cease operations or cease doing business with us in the future, we may be unable to obtain such chemicals at favorable prices, if at all.. The supply of energy or raw materials may be adversely affected by, among other things, natural disasters or an outbreak or escalation of hostilities between the United States and any foreign power, and, in particular, events in the Middle East or weather events such as hurricanes could result in a real or perceived shortage of oil or natural gas, which could result in an increase in energy or chemical prices. In addition, wood fiber is a commodity and prices historically have been cyclical. The primary source for wood fiber is timber. Environmental litigation and regulatory developments have caused, and may cause in the future, significant reductions in the amount of timber available for commercial harvest in Canada and the United States. In addition, future domestic or foreign legislation, litigation advanced by aboriginal groups, litigation concerning the use of timberlands, the protection of endangered species, the promotion of forest biodiversity, and the response to and prevention of wildfires and campaigns or other measures by environmental activists also could affect timber supplies. The availability of harvested timber may further be limited by factors such as fire and fire prevention, insect infestation, disease, ice and wind storms, droughts, floods and other natural and man-made causes. Additionally, due to increased fuel costs, suppliers, distributors and freight carriers have charged fuel surcharges, which have increased our costs. Any significant shortage or significant increase in our energy or raw material costs in circumstances where we cannot raise the price of our products due to market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Any disruption in the supply of energy or raw materials also could affect our ability to meet customer demand in a timely manner and could harm our reputation. We are expected to have limited ability to pass through increases in our costs to our customers absent increases in market prices for our products, material increases in the cost of our raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we may be required to post letters of credit or other financial assurance obligations with certain of our energy and other suppliers, which could limit our financial flexibility.. We may not realize certain projected cost savings or productivity improvements, which could result in lower profitability for our business.. As part of our business strategy, we identify opportunities to improve profitability by reducing costs and enhancing productivity. For example, through our continuous process improvement program, we have implemented focused programs to optimize material and energy sourcing and usage, reduce repair costs and control overhead. We will continue to utilize the process improvement program to drive cost reductions and operating improvements in our mill system, and have targeted additional profitability enhancements in the next twelve months. Our strategy assumes that increases in productivity through our continuous process improvement program, including through a more efficient manufacturing process or engineering design enhancements, will result in economies of scale, and global competitive sourcing of our materials will reduce our raw material and other costs. Any cost savings or productivity enhancements that we expect to realize from such efforts may differ materially from our estimates. Cost savings or productivity enhancements that we realize may be offset, in whole or in part, by reductions in pricing or volume, or through increases in other expenses, including raw material, energy or personnel. We cannot assure you that these initiatives will be completed as anticipated or that the benefits we expect will be achieved on a timely basis or at all.. 13. Currency fluctuations may adversely affect our competitive position and selling prices.. We compete with producers from around the world, particularly in North America. In addition to the impact of product supply and demand, changes in the relative strength or weakness of international currencies, particularly the U.S. dollar, can also affect international trade flows in certain products. A stronger U.S. dollar, as has been recently experienced, may attract imports, thereby increasing product supply and possibly creating downward pressure on prices. Conversely, a weaker U.S. dollar might encourage U.S. exports, thereby decreasing product supply and possibly creating upward pressure on prices.. Our business may suffer if we do not retain our senior management and other key personnel.. We are highly dependent on the continuing efforts of our senior management team and other key personnel. The loss of services of members of our senior management team and other key personnel could adversely affect our business until suitable replacements can be found. There may be a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions and we may be unable to locate or employ qualified personnel on acceptable terms. In addition, our future success requires us to continue to attract and retain competent personnel. Any failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and require the incurrence of substantial additional costs to recruit replacement personnel.. Work stoppages and slowdowns and legal action by our unionized employees may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 70% of our hourly workforce was represented by 16 local branches of the following unions: the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Services Workers International Union; the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers; the Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers; the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers; the Office & Professional Employees' International Union; and the United Association of Journeyman and Apprentices of the Plumbing and Pipefitting Industry. All represented employees were covered by a Master Labor Agreement from 2012-2016, that covered wages benefits. Certain represented mills also had local agreements covering general work rules. The Master Labor Agreement expired in December 2016. The parties are engaged in collective bargaining at the Luke Mill and Escanaba Mill and continue to work under the terms and conditions of their expired agreements. We may become subject to material cost increases as a result of action taken by the labor unions. This could increase expenses in absolute terms and/or as a percentage of net sales. In addition, although we believe we have a good relationship with our employees, work stoppages or other labor disturbances may occur in the future. Any of these factors could lead to operational delays or increased costs, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure could interfere with our operations and could compromise our information and the information of our customers and suppliers, exposing us to liability which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of business, we rely upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including supply chain, manufacturing, distribution, invoicing and collection of payments from customers. We use information technology systems to record, process and summarize financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. Additionally, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, the propriety business information of our customers and suppliers, as well as personally identifiable information of our employees, in data centers and on information technology networks. The secure operation of these information technology networks and the processing and maintenance of this information is critical to our business operations and strategy. Despite security measures and disaster recovery plans, our information technology networks and infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to security breaches, including those caused by physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, malware, attacks by hackers, employee error and disruptions caused from unauthorized access and tampering, or other disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, power outages, telecommunication or utility failures or natural disasters or other catastrophic events. The occurrence of any of these events could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disrupt operations and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 14. We depend on third parties for certain transportation services.. We rely primarily on third parties for transportation of our products to our customers and transportation of our raw materials to us, in particular, by truck and train. The transportation industry is subject to legislative and regulatory changes that can affect the economics of those third-party transportation providers by requiring changes in their operating practices or influencing the demand for, and the cost of providing, transportation services. If any third-party transportation provider fails to deliver our products in a timely manner, we may be unable to sell them at full value. Similarly, if any transportation provider fails to deliver raw materials to us in a timely manner, we may be unable to manufacture our products on a timely basis. Shipments of products and raw materials may be delayed due to weather conditions, strikes or other events. Any failure of a third-party transportation provider to deliver raw materials or products in a timely manner could harm our reputation, negatively impact our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis could be adversely affected by the lack of adequate availability of transportation services, especially rail capacity, whether because of work stoppages or otherwise. If any of these third-party transportation providers were to cease operations or cease doing business with us, we may be unable to replace them at a reasonable cost. Furthermore, we may experience increases in the cost of our transportation services as a result of rising fuel costs and surcharges (primarily in diesel fuel). Since we have a limited ability to pass these increased costs through to our customers, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs or other liabilities upon us and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to a wide range of federal, state, regional and local general and industry-specific environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those relating to air emissions (including greenhouse gases and hazardous air pollutants), wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste management and disposal, site remediation and natural resources. Compliance with these laws and regulations, and permits issued thereunder, is a significant factor in our business and may be subject to the same or even increased scrutiny and enforcement actions by regulators. We have made, and will continue to make, significant expenditures to comply with these requirements and permits, which may impose increasingly more stringent standards over time as they are renewed or modified by the applicable governmental authorities. In addition, we handle and dispose of waste arising from our mill operations and operate a number of on-site landfills to handle that waste. We are required to maintain financial assurance (in the form of letters of credit and other similar instruments) for the projected cost of closure and post-closure care for these landfill operations. We could be subject to potentially significant fines, penalties, criminal sanctions, plant shutdowns, or interruptions in operations for any failure to comply with applicable environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permits. Moreover, under certain environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real property, and parties that generate or transport hazardous substances that are disposed of at real property, may be held liable for the full cost to investigate or clean up such real property and for related damages to natural resources. We may be subject to liability, including liability for investigation and cleanup costs, if contamination is discovered at one of our current or former paper mills, other properties or other locations where we have disposed of, or arranged for the disposal of, waste.. While we have announced our exploration of strategic alternatives, including the possible sale or merger of our entire company or the possible sale of some of our mills, we may also from time to time pursue opportunistic acquisitions the success of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In the past, we have pursued acquisitions to complement or expand our business. While we are currently exploring strategic alternatives, including the possible sale or merger of our entire company or the possible sale of some of our mills, we may from time to time pursue opportunistic acquisitions. If we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the acquisition or integrate the acquired businesses with our existing business and services. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, amortization expenses and substantial goodwill. The negotiation of any transaction, its completion, and subsequent integration of any business acquired may be complex and time consuming, involve significant costs and may result in a distraction of management's attention from on going business operations. We may be affected materially and adversely if we are unable to successfully integrate businesses that we acquire. Similarly, we may divest portions of our business, which may also have material and adverse effects.. Adverse developments in general business and economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products, our financial condition and results of operations.. General economic conditions may adversely affect industrial non-durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, and consumer confidence, all of which impact demand for our products. In addition, volatility. 15. in the capital and credit markets, which impacts interest and the availability of credit, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the recent presidential and congressional elections in the United States could result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulations and monetary, tax and trade policy, among other things. While it is not possible to predict whether and when any such changes will occur, changes at the local, state or federal level could significantly impact our business and the industry in which we compete.. We have debt outstanding and may incur additional debt in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results.. Our total indebtedness, at par, was $211 million as of December 31, 2017, and we had $209 million of additional borrowing availability under our Credit Facilities. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal and interest or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or dilutive.. It is also possible that we may incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. If new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. In addition, our high level of debt could have additional significant consequences, which include, but are not limited to, the following:. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, or other general corporate purposes;. • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes;. • limiting our ability to refinance our indebtedness with acceptable terms;. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors carrying less debt; and. • making us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limiting our ability to withstand competitive pressure.. We may be unable to maintain compliance with the financial maintenance or other covenants in our Credit Facilities, which could result in an event of default under the credit agreement governing the Credit Facilities that, if not cured or waived, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Under the ABL Facility, Verso Paper is required to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio when the excess availability under such facility is less than the greater of (a) 10% of the lesser of (i) the borrowing base at such time and (ii) the aggregate amount of revolving facility commitments at such time or (b) $30 million. In addition, under the Term Loan Facility, Verso Paper is required to maintain a maximum total net leverage ratio as further described in the Term Loan Facility. The Credit Facilities also contain certain covenants which, among other things, and subject to certain exceptions, restrict Verso Paper and certain of its subsidiaries' ability to incur additional debt or liens, pay dividends, repurchase equity interests, prepay other indebtedness, sell, transfer, lease or dispose of assets and make investments in or merge with another company.. If Verso Paper were to violate any of the covenants under the ABL Facility or the Term Loan Facility and were unable to obtain a waiver, it would be considered a default after the expiration of any applicable grace period. If Verso Paper were in default under the Credit Facilities, then the lenders thereunder may exercise remedies under such Credit Facility in accordance with the terms thereof, including declaring all outstanding borrowings immediately due and payable. In addition, if Verso Paper were in default under the ABL Facility, no additional borrowings under the ABL Facility would be available until the default was waived or cured. This could adversely affect our operations and our ability to satisfy our obligations as they come due.. Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our Credit Facilities may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies.. The Credit Facilities limit our ability, among other things, to:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • incur liens;. • enter into sale and lease back transactions;. • make investments;. • make capital expenditures;. • consolidate, merge, sell, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;. • pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem our stock;. 16. • enter into transactions with our affiliates;. • engage or enter into any new lines of business;. • prepay, redeem, or repurchase certain of our indebtedness; and. • amend or modify certain provisions of our, and our subsidiaries', organizational documents.. The Credit Facilities also require us to comply with certain financial maintenance covenants as discussed above.. A breach of any of these restrictive covenants could result in a default under the instruments governing our Credit Facilities. If a default occurs, the holders of these instruments may elect to declare all borrowings thereunder outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. The lenders under the Credit Facilities would also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. If we are unable to repay our indebtedness when due or declared due, the lenders thereunder will also have the right to proceed against the collateral pledged to them to secure the indebtedness. If such indebtedness were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full our secured indebtedness.. We have certain material pension obligations. Future funding obligations related to these obligations could restrict cash available for our operations, capital expenditures or other requirements or require us to borrow additional funds.. We have certain defined benefit pension plans covering approximately 81% of our employees. As of December 31, 2015, all of our defined benefit pension plans were frozen to new entrants. As of December 31, 2017, the projected benefit obligation for our pension plans was approximately $1,753 million and the fair value of pension plan assets was $1,296 million. The total underfunded status of the pension obligations calculated on a projected benefit obligation basis as of December 31, 2017 was approximately $457 million. We currently anticipate making future pension benefit payments of $88 million in 2018 (see Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report). A deterioration in the value of plan assets could cause the unfunded status of these pension plans to increase, thereby increasing our obligation to make additional contributions to these plans. In addition, we will require future operating cash flows to fund our pension obligations, which could restrict available cash for our operations, capital expenditures and other requirements. We may also not generate sufficient cash to satisfy these obligations, which could require us to seek funding from other sources, including through additional borrowings, which could materially increase our outstanding debt or debt service requirements.. Litigation could be costly and harmful to our business.. We are involved from time to time, and may currently be involved in, claims and legal proceedings relating to contractual, employment, environmental, intellectual property and other matters incidental to the conduct of our business. Although we do not believe that any currently pending claims or legal proceedings are likely to result in an unfavorable outcome that would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, we may become involved in such claims and legal proceedings that could result in unfavorable outcomes and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our financial condition and results of operations for periods after our emergence from bankruptcy on July 15, 2016 are not comparable to the financial condition and results of operations for periods prior to July 15, 2016.. On July 15, 2016, the Effective Date of our Plan, we adopted fresh-start reporting as a result of the reorganization as prescribed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America and the provisions of FASB, ASC 852, Reorganizations. As required by fresh-start reporting, our assets and liabilities were recorded at fair value by allocating the reorganization value determined in connection with the plan of reorganization. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations from and after the Effective Date of our plan of reorganization are not comparable, in various material respects, to the financial condition and results of operations prior to the Effective Date of our Plan.. We may not achieve the expected benefit of the upgrade of our No. 3 paper machine at our Androscoggin Mill in Jay, Maine.. In February 2018, we announced plans to upgrade the shuttered No. 3 paper machine at our Androscoggin Mill in Jay, Maine, enabling this equipment to restart for the manufacture of packaging products, such as linerboard. This undertaking is subject to various risks and uncertainties, and there are many factors that may impact our ability to successfully upgrade and operate the No. 3 paper machine, many of which are beyond our control and which include, but are not limited to, the following:. • our ability to complete the upgrade within our $17 million estimate and within our projected time frame;. • our ability to attract, hire and train skilled labor for the operation of the No. 3 paper machine;. 17. • our competitors having more experience with the manufacture and sale of packaging products and having more fully integrated converting operations; and. • our ability to offer these new products on favorable terms, achieve an adequate market acceptance, manage our inventory, and fulfill orders.. As a result of the above factors, we cannot assure you that the upgrade of the No. 3 paper machine will be completed as anticipated or that the benefits we expect will be achieved on a timely basis or at all.. Risks Relating to Verso's Common Stock. Our stock price may be volatile and stockholders may be unable to sell shares at or above the price at which they purchased them.. Since our emergence from bankruptcy on July 15, 2016 and up to the date of filing this annual report on Form 10-K, our stock price for our Class A Common Stock ranged from $3.17 per share to $18.47 per share. The market price of our Class A Common Stock may continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume of our Class A Common Stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Volatility in the market price of our Class A Common Stock may prevent you from being able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for your shares of Class A Common Stock. The market price for our Class A Common Stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, including:. • our operating and financial performance and prospects;. • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;. • conditions that impact demand for our paper products;. • the public's reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC;. • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts who track our common stock;. • market and industry perception of our success, or lack thereof, in exploring strategic alternatives, including perceived uncertainties related to the future of Verso;. • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;. • changes in government regulations;. • arrival and departure of key personnel;. • changes in our capital structure;. • sales of common stock by us or members of our management team; and. • changes in general market, economic and political conditions in the United States and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from natural disasters, terrorist attacks, acts of war and responses to such events.. The exercise of all or any number of outstanding Plan Warrants or the issuance of stock-based awards may dilute your holding of shares of our Class A Common Stock.. As of the date of filing this annual report on Form 10-K, we have outstanding (i) warrants to purchase 1,810,035 shares of our Class A Common Stock, or the \"Plan Warrants,\" and (ii) 1,411,042 restricted stock units. In addition, as of the date of filing this annual report on Form 10-K, we have 3,555,237 shares of Class A Common Stock reserved for future issuance under our Verso Corporation Performance Incentive Plan. The exercise of equity awards, including any stock options that we may grant in the future, and Plan Warrants, and the sale of shares of our Class A Common Stock underlying any such options or the Plan Warrants, could have an adverse effect on the market for our Class A Common Stock, including the price that an investor could obtain for their shares. Investors may experience dilution in the net tangible book value of their investment upon the exercise of the Plan Warrants and any stock options that may be granted or issued pursuant to the Verso Corporation Performance Incentive Plan in the future.. Our Amended and Restated Bylaws, our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions of our Amended and Restated Bylaws and Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, which became effective on the Effective Date, and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our board of directors. These provisions include:. 18. • not providing for cumulative voting in the election of directors;. • requiring at least a supermajority vote of our stockholders to amend our Amended and Restated Bylaws or certain. provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation;. • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings;. • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and. • authorizing the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders.. Together, these charter and statutory provisions could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our Class A Common Stock. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class A Common Stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby potentially reducing the likelihood that our stockholders could receive a premium for their Class A Common Stock in an acquisition.. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for certain litigation that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us.. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to alternative forums, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed to us by our directors, officers, or stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us arising under the Delaware General Corporation Law or to which the Delaware General Corporation Law confers jurisdiction on the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, or (iv) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. We may consent in writing to alternative forums. By becoming a stockholder in Verso, you will be deemed to have notice of and have consented to these provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. This choice of forum provision in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation may limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us.. We currently do not plan to pay dividends on our Class A Common Stock and, consequentially, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our Class A Common Stock appreciates.. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our Class A Common Stock for the foreseeable future. Any decision to pay dividends on our Class A Common Stock in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors in light of conditions then existing, including factors such as our results of operations, financial condition and requirements, business condition, covenants under any applicable contractual arrangements, including our indebtedness.. 19"
