[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer, possibly materially.  In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. Risks Related to Our Business. All of our product revenues and the vast majority of our total revenues are derived from sales of medicines for the treatment of cystic fibrosis. If we are unable to continue to increase revenues from sales of our cystic fibrosis medicines or if we do not meet the expectations of investors or public equity market analysts, our business would be materially harmed and the market price of our common stock would likely decline.. Substantially all of our net product revenues and the vast majority of our total revenues are derived from the sale of CF medicines.  ORKAMBI and KALYDECO net product revenues represented approximately 53% and 34% of our total revenues in the year ended December 31, 2017, respectively.  As a result, our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to increase revenues from sales of our CF medicines.  In the near term, this will require us to increase CF net product revenues from our current medicines, including SYMDEKO which was approved by the FDA in February 2018.  In the longer term, this will require us to successfully develop, obtain approval for and commercialize at least one triple combination therapy that will allow us to treat patients who have one copy of the F508del mutation in their CFTR gene and a second mutation in their CFTR gene that results in minimal CFTR function and to improve the treatment options available to patients with CF who are eligible for our current medicines.. Our concentrated source of revenues presents a number of risks to our business, including:. • that one or more competing therapies may successfully be developed as a treatment for patients with CF;. • that we may experience adverse developments with respect to development or commercialization of our CF medicines and/or CF drug candidates; and. • that reimbursement policies of payors and other third parties may make it difficult to obtain reimbursement or reduce the net price we receive for our products.. Additionally, each of our commercial products and our triple combination treatment regimens contain ivacaftor or VX-561, a deuterated version of ivacaftor.  As a result, if any of our products or drug candidates were to experience safety issues, ORKAMBI, KALYDECO and SYMDEKO, as well as one or more of our drug candidates, may be adversely affected.. If one or more of the above risks were to materialize or if we are otherwise unable to increase revenues from sales of our CF medicines, our business would be materially harmed and our stock price would likely decline.. We are investing significant resources in the development of our next-generation CFTR corrector compounds in triple combinations and if we are unable to show the safety and efficacy of these compounds, experience delays in doing so or are unable to successfully commercialize at least one of these medicines, our business would be materially harmed.. We are investing significant resources in the development of our next-generation CFTR corrector compounds, and recently selected VX-659 and VX-445 to evaluate in Phase 3 clinical development as part of triple combination treatment regimens for patients with CF.  We believe that a significant portion of the long-term value attributed to our company by investors is based on the commercial potential of these triple combination therapies.  We are planning to initiate Phase 3 clinical development of VX-659 in the first half of 2018 and VX-445 in mid-2018 based on ongoing Phase 2 clinical trials that enrolled a limited number of patients with CF.  We expect to receive additional information regarding these combination regimens, including additional data from these ongoing Phase 2 clinical trials of VX-659 and VX-445 and long-term nonclinical toxicology studies of VX-445, in the first half of 2018, which could adversely affect our planned initiation of Phase 3 clinical trials for these regimens.. In order to ultimately obtain approval for a triple combination regimen, we will need to demonstrate that the compounds are safe and effective in a significantly larger number of patients than were involved in the clinical trials conducted to date. Initial results from ongoing clinical trials may differ materially from final results from such clinical trials.  The results from preclinical and early clinical studies do not always accurately predict results in later, large-scale clinical trials.  If the data. 23. from our ongoing or planned clinical trials or non-clinical studies of triple combination regimens including our next-generation CFTR compounds are not favorable, the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities may not approve these treatment regimens and/or we may be forced to delay or terminate the development of these treatment regimens, which would have an adverse effect on our business.  Even successfully completed large-scale clinical trials may not result in marketable medicines.  If a triple combination that includes a next-generation CFTR corrector compounds fails to achieve its primary endpoint in clinical trials, if safety issues arise or if the results from our clinical trials are otherwise inadequate to support regulatory approval of our triple combination therapies, commercialization of that combination regimen could be delayed or halted.. Even if we gain marketing approval for one or more combination therapies containing a next-generation CFTR corrector compound in a timely manner, we cannot be sure that such combination therapy will be commercially successful.  In addition, since we expect that a significant portion of the patients for whom a triple combination treatment regimen would be indicated would also be eligible for our then existing medicines, a portion of the revenues from our triple combination regimens will likely displace revenues from our then-marketed products, reducing the overall positive effect of the commercialization of our triple combination regimens on our total revenues.. If the anticipated or actual timing of marketing approvals for these triple combination regimens, or the market acceptance of these triple combination regimens, if approved, including treatment reimbursement levels agreed to by third-party payors, do not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the market price of our common stock would likely decline.. We have experienced challenges commercializing ORKAMBI outside of the United States, and our future revenues will be dependent on our ability to obtain adequate reimbursement for ORKAMBI, tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor, if approved in ex-U.S. markets, and our future products in ex-U.S. markets.. In most ex-U.S. markets, the pricing and reimbursement of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control.  Given recent global economic pressures and geopolitical uncertainty, government authorities particularly in Europe are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of drug products.  Reimbursement agencies in Europe are often more conservative than those in the United States and the reimbursement process is often slower since reimbursement decisions are made on a country-by-country basis.  Additionally, particular attention is being paid to specialty pharmaceutical products such as KALYDECO and ORKAMBI given the relative higher cost of these products as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products.  Due in part to these challenges, we have recognized limited ex-U.S. net product revenues for ORKAMBI as we have yet to complete reimbursement discussions in many ex-U.S. countries, including the United Kingdom and France, which represent significant potential markets for ORKAMBI.  In 2017 and 2016, ORKAMBI net product revenues from ex.-U.S. markets represented only 13% and 8% respectively, of our total ORKAMBI net product revenues.. Our future product revenues will be dependent on, among other things, our ability to complete reimbursement discussions in ex-U.S. markets for ORKAMBI and to obtain reimbursement in ex-U.S. markets for tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor, if approved, and any other products that may be approved in the future, including our triple combination regimens.  There is no assurance that coverage and reimbursement will be available outside of the United States and, even if it is available, the timing or the level of reimbursement may not be satisfactory.  Adverse pricing limitations or a delay in obtaining coverage and reimbursement would decrease our future net product revenues and harm our business.. Our business depends on our ability to obtain marketing authorization and reimbursement for tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor in ex-U.S. markets. If we are unable to obtain marketing authorization or experience material delays in obtaining marketing authorization for, or reimbursement arrangements relating to, tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor in ex-U.S. markets, our business could be materially harmed.. In 2017, we submitted an MAA in Europe seeking approval of tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor in patients with CF 12 years of age and older who have certain mutations in their CFTR gene.  We expect the EMA to complete its review in the second half of 2018.  Obtaining approval of an MAA is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, and we may not be successful.  Obtaining approval depends on many factors including:. • whether or not the European regulatory authorities determine that the evidence gathered in well-controlled clinical trials, other clinical trials and nonclinical studies demonstrates that the combination regimen is safe and effective; and. • whether or not the European regulatory authorities are satisfied that the manufacturing facilities, processes and controls for the combination are adequate, that the labeling is satisfactory and that plans for post-marketing studies, safety monitoring and risk evaluation and mitigation are sufficient.. 24. Obtaining approval for the combination of tezacaftor and ivacaftor in one country or region does not ensure that we will be able to obtain marketing authorization in any other country or region.. Even if tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor is approved, the European Commission may limit the indications for which the product may be marketed, require extensive warnings on the product labeling or require expensive and time-consuming clinical trials or reporting as conditions of approval.  If we do not obtain approval to market the combination of tezacaftor and ivacaftor in Europe, our business will be materially harmed. Additionally, even if the combination of tezacaftor and ivacaftor receives marketing approval in Europe, coverage and reimbursement may not be available and, even if it is available, the level of reimbursement may not be satisfactory.. We only recently became profitable, and we cannot predict the extent of our future profitability.. We achieved annual profitability on a GAAP basis in 2017 for the first time since 2011.  Our ability to sustain profitability depends on the extent to which we can continue to increase our revenue and control our costs in order to, among other things, counter any unforeseen difficulties, complications or other unknown factors that may impair future revenue or require additional expenditures.  Our ability to increase our revenues is dependent on our ability to successfully commercialize SYMDEKO and to develop and commercialize additional products, including our triple combination regimens.  Our operating expenses may increase due to, among other factors, additional investments to support or accelerate our research and development activities, the expansion of our organization, and/or costs associated with business development activities, including costs to acquire assets or programs, integration costs and the costs to develop drug candidates that are acquired.  Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with pharmaceutical product development, we are unable to predict the extent of our future profitability or losses.  If we are unable to increase sales of ORKAMBI, sustain sales of KALYDECO, successfully commercialize SYMDEKO and our triple combination regimes, and develop additional products, we may not sustain profitability.. If our competitors bring drugs with superior product profiles to market, our drugs may not be competitive and our revenues could decline.. Many of our competitors, including major pharmaceutical companies such as Abbvie, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Gilead, Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Merck KGaA, Novartis, Pfizer, Sanofi and Roche, possess substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we possess.  Potential competitors also include other public and private companies, academic institutions, government agencies, other public and private research organizations and charitable venture philanthropy organizations that conduct research, seek patent protection and/or establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and commercialization.  As an example, in 2013 and 2014 we experienced a rapid decline in the number of patients being treated with INCIVEK, a product we previously marketed for the treatment of hepatitis C virus infection.. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors.  Smaller and other early-stage companies also may prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies.  These third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs.. ORKAMBI, KALYDECO, SYMDEKO and any drugs that we develop in the future may not be able to compete effectively with marketed drugs or new drugs that may be developed by competitors.  The risk of competition is particularly important to our company because substantially all of our revenues as well as our most advanced drug candidates are related to the treatment of patients with CF.  There are many other companies developing drugs for the same indications that we are pursuing.  In order to compete successfully in these areas, we must demonstrate improved safety, efficacy and/or tolerability, and ease of manufacturing, and gain and maintain market acceptance over competing drugs.. A number of companies are seeking to identify and develop drug candidates for the treatment of CF, including Galapagos NV in collaboration with AbbVie, ProQR Therapeutics, Proteostasis Therapeutics, Eloxx Pharmaceuticals and several private companies.  Our competitors have research and development programs directed at identifying CFTR potentiators, CFTR correctors, ENaC inhibitors and drug candidates with other mechanisms of action or that utilize new therapeutic approaches that seek to address the underlying cause of CF.  Our success in rapidly developing and commercializing ORKAMBI, KALYDECO and SYMDEKO may increase the resources that our competitors allocate to the development of these potential treatments for CF.   Our competitors are exploring the development of drug candidates both as monotherapies and as part of combination regimens.  If one or more competing therapies are successfully developed as a treatment for patients with CF, our revenues from ORKAMBI, KALYDECO, SYMDEKO and/or other compounds, if then approved, could face competitive. 25. pressures.  If one or more competing therapies prove to be superior to our existing products and/or drug candidates for the treatment of CF, our business would be materially adversely affected.. If we discover safety issues with any of our products or if we fail to comply with continuing U.S. and applicable foreign regulations, commercialization efforts for the product could be negatively affected, the approved product could lose its approval or sales could be suspended, and our business could be materially harmed.. Our products are subject to continuing regulatory oversight, including the review of additional safety information.  Drugs are more widely used by patients once approval has been obtained and therefore side-effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated, or were not as prevalent or severe, during pre-approval clinical trials or nonclinical studies.  The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product could negatively affect commercial sales of the product, result in restrictions on the product or lead to the withdrawal of the product from the market.  Each of our commercial products and our triple combination treatment regimens contain ivacaftor or VX-561, a deuterated version of ivacaftor.  As a result, if any of our products or drug candidates were to experience safety issues, ORKAMBI, KALYDECO and SYMDEKO, as well as one or more of our drug candidates, may be adversely affected.  The reporting of adverse safety events involving our products or public speculation about such events could cause our stock price to decline or experience periods of volatility.. If we or our collaborators fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we or our collaborators may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals for specific products, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecutions.  In addition, the manufacturers we engage to make our products and the manufacturing facilities in which our products are made are subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities.  If problems are identified during the review or inspection of these manufacturers or manufacturing facilities, it could result in our inability to use the facility to make our product or a determination that inventories are not safe for commercial sale.. If physicians and patients do not accept our drugs, or if patients do not remain on treatment or comply with the prescribed dosing regimen, our product revenues would be materially harmed in future periods.. Our drugs may not gain or maintain market acceptance among physicians and patients.  Effectively marketing our drugs and any of our drug candidates, if approved, requires substantial efforts, both prior to launch and after approval.  Physicians may elect not to prescribe our drugs, and patients may elect not to take them or may discontinue use of our drugs after initiation of treatment, for a variety of reasons including:. • prevalence and severity of adverse side-effects;. • lack of reimbursement availability from third-party payors, including governmental entities;. • lower demonstrated efficacy, safety and/or tolerability compared to alternative treatment methods;. • lack of cost-effectiveness;. • a decision to wait for the approval of other therapies in development that have significant perceived advantages over our drug;. • convenience and ease of administration;. • other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and. • ineffective sales, marketing and/or distribution support.. For example, our net product revenues from ORKAMBI have been affected by discontinuations by patients who had previously initiated treatment with ORKAMBI.  If the discontinuation rate for ORKAMBI or any of our other drug products increases, or if our drugs otherwise fail to achieve or maintain market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenues in future periods.. Government and other third-party payors seek to contain costs of health care through legislative and other means.  If they fail to provide coverage and adequate reimbursement rates for our products, our revenues will be harmed.. Our sales of products depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors.  Third-party payors include government health programs such as Medicare and Medicaid in the United States and the national health care systems in many international markets, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations.  The trend in the. 26. health care industry is cost containment and efforts of third-party payors to contain or reduce health care costs may adversely affect our ability to establish or maintain appropriate prices for our products or any drugs that we may develop and commercialize.  In most ex-U.S. markets, the pricing and reimbursement of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control and such government authorities are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of drug products.  In the United States, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental control as currently exists in Europe.  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or the ACA, requires discounts under the Medicare drug benefit program and increased the rebates paid by pharmaceutical companies on drugs covered by Medicaid.  The ACA also imposes an annual fee, which increases annually, on sales by branded pharmaceutical manufacturers.. In addition, third-party payors attempt to contain health care costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both the types and variety of drugs that they will cover and the amounts that they will pay for drugs.  As a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our products.  We might need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products or any other future products to such payors' satisfaction.  Such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management's time and our financial and other resources.  Our products might not ultimately be considered cost-effective.  Adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development.. Reimbursement rates vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that already are reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or imperfections in the data used to calculate these rates.  Net prices for products are reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs and privately-negotiated discounts.  While we have implemented policies in an effort to comply with mandated reimbursement rates, the U.S. federal government, state governments and private payors frequently pursue actions against pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies alleging that the companies have overstated prices in order to inflate reimbursement rates.  Any such action could adversely affect the pricing of and revenues from our products.. In the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and initiatives to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell products.  For example, the ACA was enacted under the prior U.S. administration, and there is significant uncertainty regarding changes in the laws and regulations applicable to the health care system that may be made under the current administration, and, in particular, the effect any such changes may have on our business.  Some of these proposed and implemented reforms have resulted, or could result, in reduced reimbursement rates and/or more limited access for our current or future products, which would adversely affect our business, operations and financial results.. Specialty pharmaceuticals are drugs that are prescribed by specialist physicians to treat rare or life-threatening conditions and typically address smaller patient populations.  Each of ORKAMBI, KALYDECO and SYMDEKO is a specialty pharmaceutical product and our research and development programs are primarily focused on developing additional specialty pharmaceutical products.  The increasing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, is beginning to generate significant third-party payor interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector.  Government regulations in both U.S. and ex-U.S. markets could limit the prices that can be charged for our products and may limit our commercial opportunity.  The increasing use of health technology assessments in markets around the world and the financial challenges faced by many governments may lead to significant adverse effects on our business.. Any legislation or regulatory changes or relaxation of laws that restrict imports of drugs from other countries also could reduce the net price we receive for our products.. If regulatory authorities interpret any of our conduct, including our marketing practices, as being in violation of applicable health care laws, including fraud and abuse laws, laws prohibiting off-label promotion, disclosure laws or other similar laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties.. We are subject to health care fraud and abuse laws, such as the federal False Claims Act and the anti-kickback provisions of the federal Social Security Act, laws prohibiting off-label product promotion and other similar laws and regulations both in United States and in non-U.S. markets.  While we have a corporate compliance program designed to actively identify, prevent and mitigate risk through the implementation of compliance policies and systems and the promotion of a culture of compliance, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws our business could be materially harmed.. The federal anti-kickback law prohibits knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the ordering,. 27. furnishing, arranging for or recommending of an item or service that is reimbursable, in whole or in part, by a federal health care program, such as Medicare or Medicaid.  The federal statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, patients, purchasers and formulary managers on the other hand, and therefore constrains our marketing practices and our various service arrangements with physicians, including physicians who make clinical decisions to use our products.  Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly and have been interpreted by courts as such.. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid.  Pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the FDA has not approved, known as \"off-label\" uses, that caused claims to be submitted to Medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; submitting inflated \"best price\" information to the Medicaid Rebate Program; and certain manufacturing-related violations.  The scope of this and other laws may expand in ways that make compliance more difficult and expensive.. Although physicians are permitted, based on their medical judgment, to prescribe products for indications other than those approved by the FDA, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off-label uses.  We market ORKAMBI, KALYDECO and SYMDEKO to eligible CF patients for whom the applicable product has been approved and provide promotional materials and training programs to physicians regarding the use of ORKAMBI, KALYDECO and SYMDEKO in these patient populations.  These eligible patients represent only a portion of the total patients with CF.  If the FDA determines that our promotional materials, training or other activities constitute off-label promotion, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or other activities, conduct corrective advertising or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties.  It also is possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an off-label use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement.  Even if it is later determined we were not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our actions and have to divert significant management resources from other matters.. In recent years, legislation has been adopted at the federal, state and local level requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, health care provider payments and other activities.   For example, as part of the ACA, the federal government enacted the Open Payments (commonly known as the Sunshine Act) provisions.  Open Payments requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to report annually to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services payments or other transfers of value made by that entity to physicians and teaching hospitals.  We also now have similar reporting obligations throughout the European Union, or the E.U.  We expended significant efforts to establish, and are continuing to devote significant resources to maintain and enhance, systems and processes in order to comply with these regulations.  Failure to comply with the reporting requirements would result in significant civil monetary penalties.. The sales and marketing practices of our industry have been the subject of increased scrutiny from governmental entities in the United Sates and other countries in which we market our products, and we believe that this trend will continue.  The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are subject to a variety of interpretations.  If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any such laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal health care programs and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations.  Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, also could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business.. Changes in laws and regulations governing the privacy and protection of data and personal information could adversely affect our business.. We are subject to data privacy and protection laws and regulations that apply to the collection, transmission, storage and use of proprietary information and personally-identifying information, which among other things, imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information.  In addition, numerous other federal and state laws, including state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws and federal and state consumer protection laws, govern the collection, use, disclosure and security of personal information.. 28. Various foreign countries also have, or are developing, laws governing the collection, use, disclosure, security, and cross-border transmission of personal information.  For example, we are preparing to fulfill our obligations under the new E.U. General Data Protection Regulation, which will be effective in May 2018.  The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect our business.  For example, privacy requirements in the E.U. govern the transfer of personal information from the European Economic Area to the United States. While we continue to address the implications of changes to E.U. data privacy regulations, the area remains an evolving landscape with new regulations coming into effect and continued legal challenges and our efforts to comply with the evolving data protection rules may be unsuccessful.   Failure to comply with laws regarding data protection would expose us to risk of enforcement actions taken by data protection authorities in the E.U. and the potential for significant penalties if we are found to be non-compliant.  Similarly, failure to comply with federal and state laws in the United States regarding privacy and security of personal information could expose us to penalties under such laws.  Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could harm our business.. In 2015, the EMA adopted a new policy on publication of clinical data whereby it will publish clinical reports submitted as part of MAAs for drugs.  The policy applies to all MAAs, extension of indication or line extension applications submitted in or after 2015.  The EMA aims to publish reports within 60 days after a decision on the application has been made by the European Commission. The ability of third-parties to review and/or analyze the raw data from our clinical trials may increase the risk of patient confidentiality breaches and could result in enhanced scrutiny of our clinical trials results.  Such scrutiny could result in misconceptions being spread about our drugs and drug candidates, even if the underlying analysis of such review turns out to be flawed.  These publications could also result in the disclosure of information to our competitors that we might otherwise deem confidential, which could harm our competitive position.. The use of social media platforms presents risks and challenges.. Social media is being used by third parties to communicate about our products and drug candidates and the diseases our therapies are designed to treat.  We believe that members of the CF community may be more active on social media as compared to other patient populations due to the demographics of this patient population.  Social media practices in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are evolving, which creates uncertainty and risk of noncompliance with regulations applicable to our business.  For example, patients may use social media platforms to comment on the effectiveness of, or adverse experiences with, a drug or a drug candidate, which could result in reporting obligations.  In addition, there is a risk of inappropriate disclosure of sensitive information or negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us on any social networking website.  If any of these events were to occur or we otherwise fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could incur liability, face restrictive regulatory actions or incur other harm to our business.. Risks Related to Development, Clinical Testing and Regulation of Our Products and Drug Candidates. Our drug candidates remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval.  Our future success is dependent on our ability to successfully develop additional drug candidates for both CF and non-CF indications.. Our business depends upon the successful development and commercialization of drug candidates.  These drug candidates are in various stages of development and must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved for sale by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities.  To satisfy these standards, we must allocate resources among our various development programs and must engage in expensive and lengthy testing of our drug candidates.  Discovery and development efforts for new pharmaceutical products, including new combination therapies, are resource-intensive and may take 10 to 15 years or longer for each drug candidate.  Despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not:. • offer therapeutic or other improvement over existing competitive therapies;. • be proven safe and effective in clinical trials;. • meet applicable regulatory standards;. • be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or. • if approved for commercial sale, be successfully marketed as pharmaceutical products.. We have recently completed and/or have ongoing or planned clinical trials for several of our drug candidates.  The strength of our company's product portfolio and pipeline will depend in large part upon the outcomes of these clinical trials. 29. and our ability to develop and commercialize combination treatments for CF, including our next-generation CFTR corrector compounds and develop treatments for other diseases.  Results of our clinical trials and findings from our nonclinical studies, including toxicology findings in nonclinical studies conducted concurrently with clinical trials, could lead to abrupt changes in our development activities, including the possible cessation of development activities associated with a particular drug candidate or program.  Moreover, clinical data are often susceptible of varying interpretations, and many companies that have believed their drug candidates performed satisfactorily in clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain marketing approval of their drug candidate.  Furthermore, results from our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate.. Many companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in later-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in earlier-stage clinical trials.  Accordingly, the results from completed preclinical studies and clinical trials may not be replicated in later clinical trials, and ongoing clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later-stage clinical trials or of the likelihood of approval of a drug candidate for commercial sale.  In addition, from time to time we report interim data from our clinical trials.  Interim data from a clinical trial may not be predictive of final results from the clinical trial.. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates.. The time required to complete clinical trials and to satisfy the FDA and other countries' regulatory review processes is uncertain and typically takes many years.  Our analysis of data obtained from nonclinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval.  We also may encounter unanticipated delays or increased costs due to government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in governmental policy during the period of drug development, clinical trials and governmental regulatory review.. We may seek a Fast Track and/or Breakthrough Therapy designation for some of our drug candidates. Drug candidates that receive one or both of these designations may be eligible for, among other things, a priority regulatory review.  Each of these designations is within the discretion of the FDA.  Accordingly, even if we believe one of our drug candidates meets the criteria for Fast Track and/or Breakthrough Therapy designation, the FDA may disagree and instead determine not to make such designation.  The receipt of one or both of these designations for a drug candidate does not guarantee a faster development process, review or approval compared to drugs considered for approval under conventional FDA procedures and does not assure ultimate approval by the FDA.  In addition, even if one or more of our drugs or drug candidates qualifies for Fast Track and/or Breakthrough Therapy designation, the FDA may later decide to withdraw such designation if it determines that the drug or drug candidate no longer meets the conditions for qualification.. Any failure to obtain regulatory approvals for a drug candidate would prevent us from commercializing that drug candidate.  Any delay in obtaining required regulatory approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize a drug candidate.  Furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a drug may be subject to limitations that we do not expect on the indicated uses for which we may market the drug.  Any such limitations could reduce the size of the market for the drug.. We also are subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement.  Non-U.S. jurisdictions have different approval procedures than those required by the FDA, and these jurisdictions may impose additional testing requirements for our drug candidates.  The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the FDA approval process described above, as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of foreign requirements.  Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities outside the United States and approval by a foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by the FDA.  In addition, although the FDA may accept data from clinical trials conducted outside the United States, acceptance of this data is subject to conditions imposed by the FDA.  For example, the clinical trial must be well designed and conducted and performed by qualified investigators in accordance with ethical principles.  The trial population also must adequately represent the U.S. population, and the data must be applicable to the U.S. population and U.S. medical practice in ways that the FDA deems clinically meaningful.  In addition, while these clinical trials are subject to the applicable local laws, FDA acceptance of the data will depend on its determination that the trials also complied with all applicable U.S. laws and regulations.  If the FDA does not accept the data from any trial that we conduct outside the United States, it would likely result in the need for additional trials, which would be costly and time-consuming and delay or permanently halt our development of the applicable drug candidate.. 30. If clinical trials are prolonged or delayed, our development timelines for the affected development program could be extended, our costs to develop the drug candidate could increase and the competitive position of the drug candidate could be adversely affected.. We cannot predict whether or not we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend clinical trials, or delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials.  Among the factors that could delay our development programs are:. • ongoing discussions with the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials and the number of clinical trials we must conduct;. • delays in enrolling volunteers or patients into clinical trials, including as a result of low numbers of patients that meet the eligibility criteria for the trial;. • a lower than anticipated retention rate of volunteers or patients in clinical trials;. • the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results, unforeseen complications in testing or clinical investigator error;. • inadequate supply or deficient quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials;. • unfavorable FDA or foreign regulatory authority inspection and review of a manufacturing facility that supplied clinical trial materials or its relevant manufacturing records or a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or preclinical investigation;. • unfavorable scientific results from clinical trials;. • serious and unexpected drug-related side-effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials or by participants in clinical trials being conducted by our competitors to evaluate drug candidates with similar mechanisms of action or structures to drug candidates that we are developing;. • favorable results in testing of our competitors' drug candidates, or FDA or foreign regulatory authority approval of our competitors' drug candidates; or. • action by the FDA or a foreign regulatory authority to place a clinical hold or partial clinical hold on a trial or compound or deeming the clinical trial conduct as problematic.. Our ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis is subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the number of other clinical trials ongoing and competing for patients in the same indication and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial.  In addition, patients may drop out of our clinical trials or may be lost to follow-up medical evaluation after treatment ends, and this could impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials.  Delays in patient enrollment or unforeseen drop-out rates may result in increased costs and longer development times.. We, our collaborators, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the healthy volunteers or patients participating in such clinical trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. Any such suspension could materially adversely affect the development of a particular drug candidate and our business.. If our processes and systems are not compliant with regulatory requirements, we could be subject to restrictions on marketing our products or could be delayed in submitting regulatory filings seeking approvals for our drug candidates.. We have a number of regulated processes and systems that are required to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our drugs and drug candidates.  These processes and systems are subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory bodies.  In addition, the clinical research organizations and other third parties that we work with in our non-clinical studies and clinical trials and our oversight of such parties are subject to similar reviews and periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory bodies.  If compliance issues are identified at any point in the development and approval process, we may experience delays in filing for regulatory approval for our drug candidates, or delays in obtaining regulatory approval after filing.  Any later discovery of previously unknown problems or safety issues with approved drugs or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such drugs or. 31. manufacturing processes, withdrawal of drugs from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal penalties or a refusal by the FDA and/or other regulatory bodies to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.  In addition, we are a party to agreements that transfer responsibility for complying with specified regulatory requirements, such as filing and maintenance of marketing authorizations and safety reporting or compliance with manufacturing requirements, to our collaborators and third-party manufacturers.  If our collaborators or third-party manufacturers do not fulfill these regulatory obligations, any drugs for which we or they obtain approval may be subject to later restrictions on manufacturing or sale, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Risks Related to Collaborations and other Business Development Activities. Our ability to execute on our long-term strategy depends in part on our ability to acquire rights to additional drugs, drug candidates and other technologies that have the potential to add to our pipeline or provide us with new commercial opportunities.. In order to achieve our long-term business objectives, our strategy is to supplement our internal pipeline by acquiring rights to additional drugs, drug candidates and other technologies that have the potential to provide us with new commercial opportunities, including in the field of treating CF and in therapeutic areas outside of CF.  We may not be able to acquire, in-license or otherwise obtain rights to additional drugs, drug candidates or other technologies on acceptable terms or at all.  We have faced and will continue to face significant competition for these types of drugs, drug candidates and other technologies from a variety of other companies with interests in the specialty pharmaceutical marketplace, many of which have significantly more financial resources and experience in business development activities than we have.  In addition, non-profit organizations may be willing to provide capital to the companies that control additional drugs, drug candidates or technologies, which may provide incentives for companies to advance these drugs, drug candidates or technologies independently.  Because of these competitive pressures, the cost of acquiring, in-licensing or otherwise obtaining rights to such drugs, drug candidates or other technologies has grown dramatically in recent years and may be at levels that we cannot afford or that we believe are not justified by market potential.  This competition is most intense for approved drugs and late-stage drug candidates, which have the lowest risk and would have the most immediate effect on our financial performance.. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of potential acquisitions or licenses to businesses, drugs, drug candidates and other technologies, and the integration following any such acquisition or license may disrupt our business and management.. We may acquire a business or the rights to drugs, drug candidates or other technologies.  In recent years we have entered into both acquisition and collaboration arrangements, including our acquisition of VX-561 from Concert, our agreement with CRISPR to collaborate on the discovery and development of potential new treatments aimed at the underlying genetic causes of human diseases using CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing technology and our agreement with Moderna pursuant to which we are seeking to identify and develop mRNA therapeutics for the treatment of CF.  With respect to each of these transactions and any additional acquisition of a business or rights to drugs, drug candidates or other technologies, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of such transaction, each of which involves numerous risks.  These risks include:. • failure to successfully further develop the acquired or licensed drugs or technology or to achieve strategic objectives, including successfully developing and commercializing the drugs, drug candidates or technologies that we acquire or license;. • inadequate or unfavorable data from clinical trials evaluating the acquired or licensed drug or drug candidates;. • entry into markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions;. • disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and employees from other opportunities and challenges;. • potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired company, or acquired or licensed product or technology, including but not limited to, problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges with respect to intellectual property, product quality, safety, accounting practices, employee, customer or third party relations and other known and unknown liabilities;. • liability for activities of the acquired company or licensor before the acquisition or license, including intellectual property infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities;. 32. • exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of an acquisition or license, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, former equity holders or other third-parties;. • difficulty in integrating the drugs, drug candidates, technologies, business operations and personnel of an acquired asset or company, including the integration of VX-561 into our development programs for VX-445 and VX-659; and. • difficulties in the integration of the acquired company's departments, systems, including accounting, human resource and other administrative systems, technologies, books and records, and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, controls, including internal control over financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related procedures and policies.. Acquisitions and licensing arrangements are inherently risky, and ultimately, if we do not complete an announced acquisition or license transaction or integrate an acquired business, or an acquired or licensed drug, drug candidate or other technology successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the benefits of the acquisition or license to the extent anticipated and the perception of the effectiveness of our management team and our company may suffer in the marketplace. Additionally, we may later incur impairment charges related to assets acquired in any such transaction.  For example, we entered into a strategic collaboration and license agreement with Parion to develop ENaC inhibitors in 2015 and incurred an impairment charge related to this collaboration in the third quarter of 2017.  In addition, even if we achieve the long-term benefits associated with strategic transactions, our expenses and short-term costs may increase materially and adversely affect our liquidity and short-term net income (loss).  Future licenses or acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the creation of contingent liabilities, impairment expenses related to goodwill, and impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, which could harm our financial condition.. We face risks in connection with existing and future collaborations with respect to the development, manufacture and commercialization of our products and drug candidates.. The risks that we face in connection with our current collaborations, including with CRISPR, Janssen, Merck KGaA, Moderna and Parion, and any future collaborations, include the following:. • Our collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or may have insufficient resources to effectively develop our drug candidates.  The ability of some of our products and drug candidates to reach their potential could be limited if collaborators decrease or fail to increase development or commercialization efforts related to those products or drug candidates.  Our collaboration agreements provide our collaborators with a level of discretion in determining the amount and timing of efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations.. • Any future collaboration agreements may have the effect of limiting the areas of research and development that we may pursue, either alone or in collaboration with third parties.. • Collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, drugs that are similar to or competitive with the drugs or drug candidates that are the subject of their collaborations with us.. • Disagreements with collaborators, including disagreements over proprietary rights, contract interpretation or the preferred course of development, might cause delays or termination of the research, development or commercialization of drug candidates, might lead to additional responsibilities for us with respect to drug candidates, or might result in litigation or arbitration.  Any such disagreements would divert management attention and resources and be time-consuming and expensive.. • Collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property or proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation.. • Collaborators may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may expose us to litigation and potential liability.. • Investigations and/or compliance or enforcement actions against a collaborator, which may expose us to indirect liability as a result of our partnership with such collaborator.. • Our collaboration agreements are subject to termination under various circumstances.. 33. Additionally, if a collaborator were to be involved in a business combination, it might deemphasize or terminate the development or commercialization of any drug candidate licensed to it by us.  If one of our collaborators terminates its agreement with us, we may find it more difficult to attract new collaborators and our perception in the business and financial communities could be harmed.. We may not be able to attract collaborators or external funding for the development and commercialization of certain of our drug candidates.. As part of our ongoing strategy, we may seek additional collaborative arrangements or external funding for certain of our development programs and/or seek to expand existing collaborations to cover additional commercialization and/or development activities.  We have a number of research programs and early-stage clinical development programs, some of which are being developed in collaboration with a third party.  For example, in January 2017, we granted Merck KGaA an exclusive worldwide license to research, develop and commercialize four of our oncology research and development programs.  At any time, we may determine that in order to continue development of a drug candidate or program or successfully commercialize a drug we need to identify a collaborator or amend or expand an existing collaboration.  Whether we reach a definitive agreement for a collaboration will depend, among other things, upon our assessment of the collaborator's resources and expertise, the terms and conditions of the proposed collaboration and the proposed collaborator's evaluation of a number of factors.  Those factors may include the design or results of clinical trials, the likelihood of approval by the FDA or similar regulatory authorities outside the United States, the potential market for the subject drug candidate, the costs and complexities of manufacturing and delivering such drug candidate to patients, the potential of competing products, the existence of uncertainty with respect to our ownership of the applicable intellectual property, which can exist if there is a challenge to such ownership without regard to the merits of the challenge, and industry and market conditions generally.  Potentially, and depending on the circumstances, we may desire that a collaborator either agree to fund portions of a drug development program led by us, or agree to provide all of the funding and directly lead the development and commercialization of a program.  No assurance can be given that any efforts we make to seek additional collaborative arrangements will be successfully completed on a timely basis or at all.  If we elect to fund and undertake development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional expertise and additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all.  If we are unable to enter into acceptable collaborative relationships, one or more of our development programs could be delayed or terminated and the possibility of our receiving a return on our investment in the program could be impaired.. Risks Related to Third-Party Manufacturing and Reliance on Third Parties. We depend on third-party manufacturers to manufacture our products and the materials we require for our clinical trials.  We may not be able to maintain these relationships and could experience supply disruptions outside of our control.. We rely on a worldwide network of third-party manufacturers to manufacture our drugs for commercial use and our drug candidates for clinical trials.  As a result of our reliance on these third-party manufacturers and suppliers, we could be subject to significant supply disruptions outside of our control.  Our supply chain for sourcing raw materials and manufacturing drug product ready for distribution is a multi-step international endeavor.  Third-party contract manufacturers, including some in China, perform different parts of our manufacturing process.  Contract manufacturers may supply us with raw materials, convert these raw materials into drug substance and/or convert the drug substance into final dosage form.  Establishing and managing this global supply chain requires a significant financial commitment and the creation and maintenance of numerous third-party contractual relationships.  Although we attempt to manage the business relationships with companies in our supply chain, we do not have control over their operations.  Supply disruptions may result from a number of factors, including shortages in product raw materials, labor or technical difficulties, regulatory inspections or restrictions, shipping or customs delays or any other performance failure by any third-party manufacturer on which we rely.  Any supply disruptions could disrupt sales of our products and/or the timing of our clinical trials.. We require a supply of ivacaftor, lumacaftor  and tezacaftor for commercial sale (as KALYDECO, ORKAMBI and/or SYMDEKO).  We also require a supply of our drug candidates for use in our clinical trials.  While we have developed some internal capabilities, a majority of the manufacturing steps needed to produce our drug candidates and drug products are performed through a third-party manufacturing network. Our supply chain includes a single-source manufacturer for (i) one step in the ivacaftor manufacturing process, (ii) the manufacture of the tablets of ORKAMBI that is used for patients with CF six to eleven years of age and (iii) a pre-formulation step and the manufacture of the tablets for our commercial supply of SYMDEKO.  As a result, if we or our third-party manufacturers become unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing product on our behalf and we are not able to promptly identify another manufacturer, we could experience a disruption in the commercial supply of our then-marketed medicines, which would have a significant effect on patients, our business and our product revenues.  Similarly, a disruption in the clinical supply of drug products could delay the completion of clinical trials. 34. and affect timelines for regulatory filings.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish and maintain secondary manufacturers for all of our drug candidates and drug products on a timely basis or at all.. In the course of providing its services, a contract manufacturer may develop process technology related to the manufacture of our products or drug candidates that the manufacturer owns, either independently or jointly with us.  This would increase our reliance on that manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from that manufacturer in order to have our products or drug candidates manufactured by other suppliers utilizing the same process.. We rely on third parties to conduct certain pre-clinical work and clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such studies and/or trials or failing to satisfy regulatory requirements.. We rely on third parties such as contract research organizations to help manage certain pre-clinical work and our clinical trials and on medical institutions, clinical investigators and clinical research organizations such as the Therapeutic Development Network, which is primarily funded by the CFFT, to assist in the design and review of, and to conduct our clinical trials, including enrolling qualified patients. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities but does not relieve us of our responsibilities.  For example, we remain responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the clinical trial.  Moreover, the FDA requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as good laboratory practices and good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of pre-clinical and clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected.  If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them.  Although we believe that there are a number of other third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, it may result in a delay of the affected clinical trial or drug development program.  If clinical trials are not conducted in accordance with our contractual expectations or regulatory requirements, action by regulatory authorities might significantly and adversely affect the conduct or progress of these clinical trials or in specific circumstances might result in a requirement that a clinical trial be redone.  Accordingly, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our drug candidates could be delayed.. Risks Related to Intellectual Property. If our patents do not protect our drugs or our drugs infringe third-party patents, we could be subject to litigation which could result in injunctions preventing us from selling our products or substantial liabilities.. We have numerous issued patents and pending patent applications in the United States, as well as counterparts in other countries.  Our success will depend, in significant part, on our ability to obtain and defend U.S. and foreign patents covering our drugs, their uses and our processes, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties.  We cannot be certain that any patents will issue from our pending patent applications or, even if patents issue or have issued, that the issued claims will provide us with adequate protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable.. Due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions.  Recent patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents in the U.S.  The Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, includes a number of significant changes to United States patent law.  These include provisions that affect the way patent applications are prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation.  The United States Patent Office developed new regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act, and in particular, the first to file provisions, became effective in March 2013.  The first to file provisions limit the rights of an inventor who is the first to invent an invention but is not the first to file an application claiming that invention.  U.S. and foreign patent applications typically are maintained in confidence for a period of time after they initially are filed with the applicable patent office.  Consequently, we cannot be certain that we were the first to invent, or the first to file patent applications on, our products or drug candidates or their use.  If a third party also has filed a U.S. patent application relating to our drugs or drug candidates, their uses, or a similar invention, we may have to participate in legal or administrative proceedings to determine priority of invention.  For applications governed by the Lahey-Smith Act, if a third-party has an earlier filed U.S. patent application relating to our drugs or drug candidates, their uses, or a similar invention, we may be unable to obtain an issued patent from our application.. 35. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability.  Our patents may be challenged by third parties, resulting in the patent being deemed invalid, unenforceable or narrowed in scope, or the third party may circumvent any such issued patents.  Also, our pending patent applications may not issue, and we may not receive any additional patents.  Our patents might not contain claims that are sufficiently broad to prevent others from utilizing our technologies.  For instance, the issued patents relating to our drugs or drug candidates may be limited to a particular molecule or molecules and may not cover similar molecules that have similar clinical properties.  Consequently, our competitors may independently develop competing products that do not infringe our patents or other intellectual property.  In addition, if the breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents and patent applications is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to license, develop or commercialize current or future products.. The laws of many foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States and many companies in our segment of the pharmaceutical industry have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions.  If we encounter such difficulties in protecting or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business could be substantially harmed.. Because of the extensive time required for the discovery, development, testing and regulatory review of drug candidates, it is possible that, a patent may expire before a drug candidate can be commercialized, or a patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization of such drug candidate resulting in a minimal, if any, period of patent exclusivity.  To the extent our drug candidates are not commercialized significantly ahead of the expiration date of any applicable patent, or to the extent we have no patent protection on such drug candidates, then, to the extent available we would rely on other forms of exclusivity, such as regulatory exclusivity provided by the FDCA and its counterpart agencies in various jurisdictions, and/or orphan drug exclusivity.. Uncertainty over intellectual property in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry has been the source of litigation and other disputes, which is inherently costly and unpredictable.. There is considerable uncertainty within our industry about the validity, scope and enforceability of many issued patents in the United States and elsewhere in the world, and, to date, the law and practice remains in substantial flux both in the agencies that grant patents and in the courts.  We cannot currently determine the ultimate scope and validity of patents which may be granted to third parties in the future or which patents might be asserted as being infringed by the manufacture, use and sale of our products.. There has been, and we expect that there may continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patents and other intellectual property rights.  Litigation, arbitrations, administrative proceedings and other legal actions with private parties and governmental authorities concerning patents and other intellectual property rights may be protracted, expensive and distracting to management.  Competitors may sue us as a way of delaying the introduction of our drugs or to remove our drugs from the market.  Any litigation, including litigation related to Abbreviated New Drug Applications, or ANDA, litigation related to 505(b)(2) applications, interference proceedings to determine priority of inventions, derivations proceedings, inter partes review, oppositions to patents in foreign countries, litigation against our collaborators or similar actions, may be costly and time consuming and could harm our business.  We expect that litigation may be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and scope of certain of our proprietary rights.  Litigation may be necessary in other instances to determine the validity, scope or non-infringement of certain patent rights claimed by third parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our products.  Ultimately, the outcome of such litigation could adversely affect the validity and scope of our patent or other proprietary rights, hinder our ability to manufacture and market our products, or result in the assessment of significant monetary damages against us that may exceed amounts, if any, accrued in our financial statements.. To the extent that valid present or future third-party patents or other intellectual property rights cover our drugs, drug candidates or technologies, we or our strategic collaborators may seek licenses or other agreements from the holders of such rights in order to avoid or settle legal claims.  Such licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, which may hinder our ability to, or prevent us from being able to, manufacture and market our drugs.  Payments under any licenses that we are able to obtain would reduce our profits derived from the covered products.. We may be subject to claims by third parties asserting that our employees or we have misappropriated their intellectual property, or claiming ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property.. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors.  Although we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have used or. 36. disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such employee's former employer.  Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims.. In addition, while it is our policy to require our employees and contractors who may be involved in the development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who in fact develops intellectual property that we regard as our own.  Our and their assignment agreements may not be self-executing or may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property.. If we fail in prosecuting or defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel.  Even if we are successful in prosecuting or defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.. Risks Related To Our Operations. Risks associated with operating in foreign countries could materially adversely affect our business.. We have expanded our international operations over the past several years in order to market ORKAMBI and KALYDECO and expand our research and development capabilities.  New laws and industry codes in the E.U. and elsewhere have expanded transparency requirements regarding payments and transfers of value as well as patient-level clinical trial data.  New laws in the E.U., also have expanded protections related to personal data and provided for increased sanctions for violations.  Collectively, our expansion and these new requirements are adding to our compliance costs and expose us to potential sanctions for failing to meet the enhanced safeguards and reporting demands in these jurisdictions.  In addition, a significant portion of our commercial supply chain, including sourcing of raw materials and manufacturing, is located in China and the E.U.  Consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries.  Risks associated with conducting operations in foreign countries include:. • differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals and regulation of approved drugs in foreign countries;. • varying reimbursement regimes and difficulties or the inability to obtain reimbursement for our products in a timely manner;. • differing patient treatment infrastructures, particularly since our business is focused on the treatment of rare diseases that are typically prescribed by specialist physicians;. • collectibility of accounts receivable;. • changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements, the risks of which appear to have increased in the current political environment;. • economic weakness, including recession and inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets;. • differing levels of enforcement and/or recognition of contractual and intellectual property rights;. • complying with local laws and regulations, which are interpreted and enforced differently across jurisdictions and which can change significantly over time;. • foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes;. • foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in reduced revenues or increased operating expenses, and other obligations incident to doing business or operating in another country;. • workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States;. • import and export licensing requirements, tariffs, and other trade and travel restrictions;. • production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and. • business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism.. 37. Our revenues are subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations.  Although we have foreign currency forward contracts to hedge forecasted product revenues denominated in foreign currencies, our efforts to reduce currency exchange losses may not be successful.  As a result, currency fluctuations among our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar, and the currencies in which we do business will affect our operating results, often in unpredictable ways.. In addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under U.S. law.  For example, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prohibits U.S. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad.  In many countries, the health care professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign government official for purposes of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  We also are subject to import/export control laws.  Failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including the possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions, the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations and corresponding bad publicity and negative perception of our company in foreign countries.. If we fail to manage our operations effectively, our business may suffer.. We have expanded and are continuing to expand our global operations and capabilities, which has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational, research and development and financial infrastructure.  To effectively manage our business, we need to:. • implement and clearly communicate our corporate-wide strategies;. • enhance our operational and financial infrastructure, including our controls over records and information;. • enhance our operational, financial and management processes, including our cross-functional decision-making processes and our budget prioritization systems;. • train and manage our global employee base;. • transition from a U.S.-centric company into an organization capable of developing and commercializing multiple drug candidates in international markets; and. • enhance our compliance and legal resources.. Risk Relating to the Referendum of the United Kingdom's Membership of the European Union.. Our European headquarters and European research facility are located in the United Kingdom, and a significant portion of our ex-U.S. net product revenues are derived from sales in the United Kingdom.  In June 2016, the United Kingdom, or the U.K., held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the E.U., commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" The U.K. government provided official notice of withdrawal from the E.U. in the first half of 2017, and is currently negotiating the terms of the U.K's withdrawal. The withdrawal could, among other outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the U.K. and the E.U., undermine bilateral cooperation in key policy areas and significantly disrupt trade between the U.K. and the E.U. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate. Given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what financial, trade, regulatory and legal implications the withdrawal of the U.K. from the E.U. would have and how such withdrawal would affect us.  The announcement of Brexit caused significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies in which we conduct business.  The withdrawal of the U.K. from the E.U. may also create global economic uncertainty, which may cause third-party payors, including governmental organizations, to closely monitor their costs and reduce their spending budgets.  Any of these effects of Brexit, among others, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims and other litigation liability.  If we do not obtain appropriate levels of insurance, any potential claims could adversely affect our business.. We are or may be involved in various legal proceedings, including securities class action lawsuits and claims related to product liability, intellectual property and breach of contract. Such proceedings may involve claims for, or the possibility of, fines and penalties involving substantial amounts of money or other relief, including but not limited to civil or criminal fines and penalties. If any of these legal proceedings were to result in an adverse outcome, it could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 38. With respect to product liability and clinical trial risks, in the ordinary course of business we are subject to liability claims and lawsuits, including potential class actions, alleging that our products or drug candidates have caused, or could cause, serious adverse events or other injury.  We have product liability insurance and clinical trial insurance in amounts that we believe are adequate to cover this risk.  However, our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against all potential liabilities.  If a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as pay uncovered damage awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us and these damages could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.  Furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct significant financial and managerial resources to such defense and adverse publicity is likely to result.. A breakdown or breach of our information technology systems could subject us to liability or interrupt the operation of our business.. We maintain and rely extensively on information technology systems and network infrastructures for the effective operation of our business.  In the course of our business, we collect, store and transmit confidential information (including personal information and intellectual property), and it is critical that we do so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information.  The size and complexity of our information technology and information security systems makes such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches.  A disruption, infiltration or failure of our information technology systems or any of our data centers as a result of software or hardware malfunctions, computer viruses, cyber attacks, employee theft or misuse, power disruptions, natural disasters, floods or accidents could cause breaches of data security and loss of critical data, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business and subject us to both private and governmental causes of action.  While we have implemented security measures in an attempt to minimize these risks to our data and information technology systems and have adopted a business continuity plan to deal with a disruption to our information technology systems, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business.. If we fail to attract and retain skilled employees, our business could be materially harmed.. Because our drug discovery and development activities are highly technical in nature, we require the services of highly qualified and trained scientists who have the skills necessary to conduct these activities.  In addition, we need to attract and retain employees with experience in marketing and commercialization of medicines.  We face intense competition for our personnel from our competitors and other companies throughout our industry.  We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific and clinical personnel from universities and research institutions.  Moreover, the growth of local biotechnology companies and the expansion of major pharmaceutical companies into the Boston area have increased competition for the available pool of skilled employees, especially in technical fields, and the high cost of living in Massachusetts makes it difficult to attract employees from other parts of the country to Massachusetts.  In addition, the available pool of skilled employees would be further reduced if immigration laws change in a manner that increases restrictions on immigration.  Our ability to commercialize our products, and achieve our research and development objectives, depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands.  If we are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel, there could be a material adverse effect on our business.. The loss of the services of key employees or the failure to effectively integrate key employees could negatively affect our business.. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to retain the services of our key scientific and management personnel and to integrate new scientific and management personnel into our business.  A loss of key personnel or a failure to properly integrate new personnel could be disruptive.  We have entered into employment agreements with some executives and provide compensation-related benefits to all of our key employees that vest over time and therefore induce them to remain with us.  However, the employment agreements can be terminated by the executive on relatively short notice.  The value to employees of stock-related benefits that vest over time - such as options, restricted stock and restricted stock units - is significantly affected by movements in our stock price, and may at any point in time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies.  A failure to retain, as well as hire, train and effectively integrate into our organization a sufficient number of qualified scientists, professionals, sales personnel and senior management would negatively affect our business.. If we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected.. Our research and development efforts involve the regulated use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various controlled and radioactive compounds.  Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials. 39. comply with the standards prescribed by state, federal and foreign regulations, the risk of loss of, or accidental contamination or injury from, these materials cannot be eliminated.  If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial.  We also are subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials.  Although we maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities.  We maintain insurance to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events relating to our use and disposal of hazardous materials that we believe is appropriate based on the small amount of hazardous materials we generate.  Additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future.  We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations.. If our facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, our operations would be seriously harmed.. Most of our operations, including our research and development activities, are conducted in a limited number of facilities.  If any of our major facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, due to a earthquake, severe storms, fire or similar event, our operations could be seriously harmed.  For example, our corporate headquarters, as well as additional leased space that we use for certain logistical and laboratory operations and manufacturing, are located in a flood zone along the Massachusetts coast.  We have adopted a business continuity plan to address most crises.  However, if we are unable to fully implement our disaster recovery plans, we may experience delays in recovery of data and/or an inability to perform vital corporate functions, which could result in a significant disruption in our research, development, manufacturing and/or commercial activities, the loss or critical data and/or large expenses to repair or replace the facility, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. Risks Related to Holding Our Common Stock. Our stock price may fluctuate.. Market prices for securities of companies such as ours are highly volatile.  From January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017, our common stock traded between $73.34 and $167.86 per share.  The market for our stock, like that of other companies in the biotechnology industry, has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations.  The future market price of our securities could be significantly and adversely affected by factors such as:. • the information contained in our quarterly earnings releases, including our net product revenues and operating expenses for completed periods and guidance regarding future periods;. • announcements of FDA actions with respect to our drugs or our competitors' drugs, or regulatory filings for our drug candidates or those of our competitors, or announcements of interim or final results of clinical trials or nonclinical studies relating to our drugs, drug candidates or those of our competitors;. • prescription data and other information disclosed by third parties regarding our business or products;. • technological innovations or the introduction of new drugs by our competitors;. • government regulatory action;. • public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by us or our competitors;. • developments in patent or other intellectual property rights or announcements relating to these matters;. • developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulation, for example, relating to intellectual property rights;. • developments relating specifically to other companies and market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks or stocks in general;. • business development, capital structuring or financing activities; and. • general worldwide or national economic, political and capital market conditions.. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, stockholder derivative lawsuits and securities class action litigation are common. Such litigation, if instituted against us or our officers and directors, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources.. 40. Our indebtedness could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, and the terms of our credit agreement impose restrictions on our business, reducing our operational flexibility and creating default risks.. In October 2016, we entered into a credit agreement providing for a $500 million revolving facility, $300 million of which was drawn at closing and subsequently paid off in February 2017.  The credit agreement provides that, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, we may request that the borrowing capacity under the credit agreement be increased by an additional $300.0 million.  All outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement mature on October 13, 2021.  Our indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, including increasing our vulnerability to general adverse financial, business, economic and industry conditions, as well as other factors that are beyond our control.  The credit agreement requires that we comply with certain financial covenants, including (i) a consolidated leverage ratio covenant and (ii) a consolidated EBITDA covenant, in each case to be measured on a quarterly basis.  Further, the credit agreement includes negative covenants, subject to exceptions, restricting or limiting our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, engage in certain investment, acquisition and disposition transactions, pay dividends, repurchase capital stock and enter into transactions with affiliates.  As a result, we may be restricted from engaging in business activities that may otherwise improve our business.  Failure to comply with the covenants could result in an event of default that could trigger acceleration of our indebtedness, which would require us to repay all amounts owing under the credit agreement and/or our capital leases and could have a material adverse effect on our business.  Additionally, our obligations under the credit agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries.  All obligations under the credit agreement, and the guarantees of those obligations, are secured by substantially all of our assets and the assets of all guarantors (excluding intellectual property, owned and leased real property and certain other excluded property), including the pledge of all or a portion of the equity interests of certain of our subsidiaries.  If we fail to satisfy our obligations under the credit agreement or are unable to obtain sufficient funds to make payments, the lenders could foreclose on our pledged collateral.. Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuation.. Our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future.  Our revenues are primarily dependent on the level of net product revenues from sales of our CF medicines.  Our total net product revenues could vary on a quarterly basis based on, among other factors, the timing of orders from our significant customers.  Additional factors that have caused quarterly fluctuations to our operating results in recent years include variable amounts of revenues, impairment charges, charges for excess and obsolete inventories, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments and the consolidation or deconsolidation of variable interest entities.  Our revenues also are subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations.  Although we have foreign currency forward contracts to hedge forecasted product revenues denominated in foreign currencies, our efforts to reduce currency exchange losses may not be successful.  As a result, currency fluctuations among our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar, and the currencies in which we do business may affect our operating results, often in unpredictable ways.  Our quarterly results also could be materially affected by significant charges, which may or may not be similar to charges we have experienced in the past.  Most of our operating expenses relate to our research and development activities, do not vary directly with the amount of revenues and are difficult to adjust in the short term.  As a result, if revenues in a particular quarter are below expectations, we are unlikely to reduce operating expenses proportionately for that quarter.  These examples are only illustrative and other risks, including those discussed in these \"Risk Factors,\" could also cause fluctuations in our reported financial results.  Our operating results during any one period do not necessarily suggest the results of future periods.. We expect that results from our clinical development activities and the clinical development activities of our competitors will continue to be released periodically, and may result in significant volatility in the price of our common stock.. Any new information regarding our products and drug candidates or competitive products or potentially competitive drug candidates can substantially affect investors' perceptions regarding our future prospects.  We, our collaborators and our competitors periodically provide updates regarding drug development programs, typically through press releases, conference calls and presentations at medical conferences.  These periodic updates often include interim or final results from clinical trials conducted by us or our competitors and/or information about our or our competitors' expectations regarding regulatory filings and submissions as well as future clinical development of our products or drug candidates, competitive products or potentially competitive drug candidates.  The timing of the release of information by us regarding our drug development programs is often beyond our control and is influenced by the timing of receipt of data from our clinical trials and by the general preference among pharmaceutical companies to disclose clinical data during medical conferences.  In addition, the information disclosed about our clinical trials, or our competitors' clinical trials, may be based on interim rather than final data that may involve interpretation difficulties and may in any event not accurately predict final results.. 41. Changes in tax laws, regulations and treaties could affect our future taxable income.. A change in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation, of any country in which we operate could materially affect us if we generate taxable income in a future period.  For example, on December 22, 2017, the United States enacted H.R.1., known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.   We currently do not expect H.R.1. to have a material impact on our financial statements as long as we maintain a valuation allowance on the majority of our net operating losses and other deferred tax assets, however we are still in the process of evaluating the new law and do not know the full effect it will have on our business, including our financial statements.. We continue to assess the impact of various tax reform proposals and modifications to existing tax treaties in all jurisdictions where we have operations to determine the potential effect on our business and any assumptions we have made about our future taxable income.  We cannot predict whether any specific proposals will be enacted, the terms of any such proposals or what effect, if any, such proposals would have on our business if they were to be enacted.. We may need to raise additional capital that may not be available.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future.  Any potential public offering, private placement or debt financing may or may not be similar to the transactions that we entered into in the past.  Any debt financing may be on terms that, among other things, include conversion features that could result in dilution to our then-existing security holders and restrict our ability to pay interest and dividends - although we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.  Additionally, our pledge of specified assets as collateral to secure our obligations under our credit agreement may limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing.  Any equity financings would result in dilution to our then-existing security holders.  If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be required to curtail significantly or discontinue one or more of our research, drug discovery or development programs, including clinical trials, incur significant cash exit costs, or attempt to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, drugs or drug candidates.  Based on many factors, including general economic conditions, additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all.. Issuances of additional shares of our common stock could cause the price of our common stock to decline.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 253.3 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding.  As of December 31, 2017, we also had outstanding options to purchase 9.8 million shares of common stock with a weighted-average exercise price of $91.57 per share.  Outstanding vested options are likely to be exercised if the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable exercise price, and, in the future, we expect to issue additional options, restricted stock and restricted stock units to directors and employees.  In addition, we may issue additional common stock or restricted securities in the future as part of financing activities or business development activities and any such issuances may have a dilutive effect on our then-existing shareholders.  Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock.  The issuance of restricted common stock or common stock upon exercise of any outstanding options would be dilutive, and may cause the market price for a share of our common stock to decline.. There can be no assurance that we will repurchase shares of common stock or that we will repurchase shares at favorable prices.. Our Board of Directors has authorized a share repurchase program of up to $500 million to repurchase shares of our common stock. Our stock repurchases will depend upon, among other factors, our cash balances and potential future capital requirements, results of operations, financial condition and other factors that we may deem relevant. We can provide no assurance that we will repurchase stock at favorable prices, if at all.. We have adopted anti-takeover provisions and are subject to Massachusetts corporate laws that may frustrate any attempt to remove or replace our current management or effectuate a business combination involving Vertex.. Our corporate charter and by-law provisions and Massachusetts state laws may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of Vertex that might be beneficial to us or our security holders. Although we recently amended our charter to eliminate staggered terms for our Board of Directors, our shareholders will not have the ability to vote for all members of the Board of Directors on an annual basis until 2020.  Our by-laws grant the directors a right to adjourn annual meetings of shareholders, and certain provisions of our by-laws may be amended only with an 80% shareholder vote.  We may issue shares of any class or series of preferred stock in the future without shareholder approval and upon such terms as our Board of Directors may determine.  The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the. 42. future.  Massachusetts state law prohibits us from engaging in specified business combinations, unless the combination is approved or consummated in a prescribed manner, and prohibits voting by any shareholder who acquires 20% or more of our voting stock without shareholder approval.  As a result, shareholders or other parties may find it more difficult to remove or replace our current management.. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. This Annual Report on Form 10-K and, in particular, the description of our Business set forth in Item 1, the Risk Factors set forth in this Item 1A and our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in Item 7 contain or incorporate a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding:. • our expectations regarding the amount of, timing of and trends with respect to our revenues, costs and expenses and other gains and losses, including those related to our CF net product revenues;. • our expectations regarding clinical trials, development timelines and regulatory authority filings and submissions for ivacaftor, lumacaftor, tezacaftor, VX-659, VX-445, VX-150, VX-128 and VX-210 and the MAA for tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor;. • our ability to obtain reimbursement for ORKAMBI in ex-U.S. markets and our ability to otherwise successfully market ORKAMBI, KALYDECO, SYMDEKO or any of our other drug candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval;. • our expectations regarding the timing and structure of clinical trials of our drugs and drug candidates, including ivacaftor, lumacaftor, tezacaftor, VX-659, VX-445, VX-150, VX-128 and VX-210, and the expected timing of our receipt of data from our ongoing and planned clinical trials;. • the data that will be generated by ongoing and planned clinical trials and the ability to use that data to advance compounds, continue development or support regulatory filings;. • our beliefs regarding the support provided by clinical trials and preclinical and nonclinical studies of our drug candidates for further investigation, clinical trials or potential use as a treatment;. • our plan to continue investing in our research and development programs and our strategy to develop our drug candidates, alone or with third party-collaborators;. • the establishment, development and maintenance of collaborative relationships;. • potential business development activities;. • potential fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;. • our ability to use our research programs to identify and develop new drug candidates to address serious diseases and significant unmet medical needs; and. • our liquidity and our expectations regarding the possibility of raising additional capital.. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may turn out to be wrong.  They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties.  Many factors mentioned in this Annual Report on Form 10-K will be important in determining future results.  Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed.  Actual future results may vary materially from expected results.  We also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under \"Risk Factors\" above in this Item 1A.  These are factors and uncertainties that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results.  Other factors and uncertainties besides those listed there could also adversely affect us.. 43. Without limiting the foregoing, the words \"believes,\" \"anticipates,\" \"plans,\" \"intends,\" \"expects\" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.  There are a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control, including the factors and uncertainties set forth under \"Risk Factors\" above in this Item 1A.  In addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date.  While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements."
