[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. We have a history of net losses, and our future profitability is not assured.. We incurred net loss of $46.0 million in fiscal 2018. In fiscal 2017 we earned net income of $166.9 million, including recognized gross gains on sales of Lumentum common stock of $203.0 million, and incurred net loss of $99.2 million in fiscal 2016. Historically, VIAVI operated as a portfolio company comprised of many product lines, with diverse operating metrics and markets. As a result, our profitability in a particular period was impacted by revenue, product mix and operational costs that varied significantly across our product portfolio and business segments. While we completed the separation of our Lumentum business in 2015, this variability continues to be a factor across our remaining business segments.. Additionally, for the last several years, VIAVI has undergone multiple manufacturing, facility, organizational and product line transitions. We expect some of these activities to continue for the foreseeable future. These activities are costly and may impair our profitability objectives. Specific factors that may undermine our financial objectives include, among others:. • uncertain future telecom carrier and cable operator capital and R&D spending levels, which particularly affects our NE and SE segments;. • adverse changes to our product mix, both fundamentally (resulting from new product transitions, the declining profitability of certain legacy products and the termination of certain products with declining margins, among other things) and due to quarterly demand fluctuations;. • pricing pressure across our NSE product lines due to competitive forces, increasingly from Asia, and to a highly concentrated customer base for many of our product lines, which may offset some of the cost improvements;. • our OSP operating margin may experience some downward pressure as a result of higher mix of 3D sensing products and increased operating expenses;. • limited availability of components and resources for our products which leads to higher component prices;. • increasing commoditization of previously differentiated products, and the attendant negative effect on average selling prices and profit margins;. • execution challenges, which limit revenue opportunities and harm profitability, market opportunities and customer relations;. • decreased revenue associated with terminated or divested product lines;. • redundant costs related to periodic transitioning of manufacturing and other functions to lower-cost locations;. • ongoing costs associated with organizational transitions, consolidations and restructurings, which are expected to continue in the nearer term;. • continuing high levels of selling, general and administrative, (\"SG&A\") expenses; and. • cyclical demand for our currency products.. Taken together, these factors limit our ability to predict future profitability levels and to achieve our long-term profitability objectives. If we fail to achieve profitability expectations, the price of our debt and equity securities, as well as our business and financial condition, may be materially adversely impacted.. The separation of the Lumentum business could result in substantial tax liability to us and our stockholders.. One of the conditions for completing the Separation was our receipt of a tax opinion from our advisors substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Separation will qualify as a tax-free distribution under certain sections of the Internal Revenue Code. If any of the factual representations and assumptions made in connection with obtaining the tax opinion were inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, then we will not be able to rely on the tax opinion. Furthermore, the tax opinion is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or the courts. Accordingly, the IRS or the courts may challenge the conclusions stated in the tax opinion and such challenge could prevail.. If, notwithstanding our receipt of the tax opinion, the Separation is determined to be taxable, then (i) we would be subject to tax as if we sold the stock distributed in the Separation in a taxable sale for its fair market value; and (ii) each stockholder who received stock distributed in the Separation would be treated as receiving a distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the stock that would generally result in tax liabilities for each stockholder, which may be substantial.. 14. Table of Contents. Management turnover creates uncertainties and could harm our business.. We hired a new President and Chief Executive Officer in February 2016 and a new Chief Financial Officer in September 2015. In addition, during fiscal years 2016 and 2017 we made leadership changes in several other key functions throughout the Company, including Sales, HR, IT and others. The extent of our management changes could adversely impact our results of operations and our customer relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified executives and employees, or to successfully integrate any newly-hired personnel within our organization, we may be unable to achieve our operating objectives, which could negatively impact our financial performance and results of operations.. Restructuring. We continue to restructure and realign our cost base with current and anticipated future market conditions. Significant risks associated with these actions that may impair our ability to achieve the anticipated cost reductions or that may disrupt our business include delays in the implementation of anticipated workforce reductions in highly regulated locations outside of the U.S. and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of key employees. In addition, our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these actions within the expected timeframe is subject to many estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. If these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we experience delays, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Natural Disasters and Catastrophic Events. In October 2017, we temporarily closed our Santa Rosa, California facility, which resulted in production stoppage due to wildfires in the region and the facility's close proximity to the wildfire evacuation zone. The location of our production facility could subject us to production delays and/or equipment and property damage. The geographic location of our Northern California headquarters and production facilities subject them to earthquake and wildfire risks. It is impossible to predict the timing, magnitude or location of such natural disasters or their impacts on the local economy and on our operations. If a major earthquake, wildfire or other natural disaster were to damage or destroy our facilities or manufacturing equipment, we may experience potential impacts ranging from production and shipping delays to lost profits and revenues.. Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions.. Global macroeconomic and geopolitical risks could adversely impact customer business conditions that could decrease or delay capital spending among communications service providers, enterprise budgets and consumer demand. This could also result in increased price competition for our products, increase our risk of excess and obsolete inventories and higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue.. Impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other assets could negatively affect our results of operations or net worth.. We have significant long-lived assets recorded on our balance sheet. We evaluate intangible assets and goodwill for impairment at least annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We monitor factors or indicators, such as unfavorable variances from forecasted cash flows, established business plans or volatility inherent to external markets and industries that would require an impairment test. The test for impairment of intangible assets requires a comparison of the carrying value of the asset or asset group with their estimated undiscounted future cash flows. If the carrying value of the asset or asset group is considered impaired, an impairment charge is recorded for the amount by which the carrying value of the asset or asset group exceeds its fair value. The test for impairment of goodwill requires a comparison of the carrying value of the reporting unit for which goodwill is assigned with the fair value of the reporting unit calculated based on discounted future cash flows. When testing goodwill for impairment during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, we concluded that the carrying value of the SE reporting unit was higher than its fair value. Accordingly step two of the impairment analysis was performed which indicated that the entire SE goodwill balance was impaired resulting in an impairment charge of $91.4 million. This charge does not impact our liquidity, cash flows from operations, future operations, or compliance with debt covenants. Although the analysis indicated only the SE reporting unit was impaired, we will continue to monitor the remaining reporting units which had an excess fair value over carrying value as of the date of annual impairment assessment. As of June 30, 2018 our NE and OSP reporting goodwill balances were $328.0 million and $8.3 million, respectively. Refer to Note 8 and Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and \"Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates\" in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion of the impairment testing of goodwill and long-lived assets.. We will continue to evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our goodwill and long-lived assets on an ongoing basis, and we may incur substantial impairment charges, which would adversely affect our financial results. There can be no assurance that the outcome of such reviews in the future will not result in substantial impairment charges. Impairment assessment. 15. Table of Contents. inherently involves judgment as to assumptions about expected future cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. Future events and changing market conditions may impact our assumptions as to prices, costs, holding periods or other factors that may result in changes in our estimates of future cash flows. Although we believe the assumptions we used in testing for impairment are reasonable, significant changes in any one of our assumptions could produce a significantly different result. If, in any period, our stock price decreases to the point where the fair value of the Company, as determined by our market capitalization, is less than our book value, this too could indicate a potential impairment and we may be required to record an impairment charge in that period.. Rapid technological change in our industry presents us with significant risks and challenges, and if we are unable to keep up with the rapid changes, our customers may purchase less of our products which could adversely affect our operating results.. The manufacture, quality and distribution of our products, as well as our customer relations, may be affected by several factors, including the rapidly changing market for our products, supply issues and internal restructuring efforts. We expect the impact of these issues will become more pronounced as we continue to introduce new product offerings and when overall demand increases.. Our success depends upon our ability to deliver both our current product offerings and new products and technologies on time and at acceptable cost to our customers. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, substantial capital investment, changes in customer requirements and a constantly evolving industry. Our future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new and enhanced products that address these issues and provide solutions that meet our customers' current and future needs. As a technology company, we also constantly encounter quality, volume and cost concerns such as:. • Our continuing cost reduction programs, which include site and organization consolidations, asset divestitures, outsourcing the manufacture of certain products to contract manufacturers, other outsourcing initiatives, and reductions in employee headcount, require the re-establishment and re-qualification by our customers of complex manufacturing lines, as well as modifications to systems, planning and operational infrastructure. During this process, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, additional costs, delays in re-establishing volume production levels, planning difficulties, inventory issues, factory absorption concerns and systems integration problems.. • We have experienced variability of manufacturing yields caused by difficulties in the manufacturing process, the effects from a shift in product mix, changes in product specifications and the introduction of new product lines. These difficulties can reduce yields or disrupt production and thereby increase our manufacturing costs and adversely affect our margin.. • We may incur significant costs to correct defective products (despite rigorous testing for quality both by our customers and by us), which could include lost future sales of the affected product and other products, and potentially severe customer relations problems, litigation and damage to our reputation.. • We are dependent on a limited number of vendors, who are often small and specialized, for raw materials, packages and standard components. We also rely on contract manufacturers around the world to manufacture certain of our products. Our business and results of operations have been, and could continue to be adversely affected by this dependency. Specific concerns we periodically encounter with our suppliers include stoppages or delays of supply, insufficient vendor resources to supply our requirements, substitution of more expensive or less reliable products, receipt of defective parts or contaminated materials, increases in the price of supplies, and an inability to obtain reduced pricing from our suppliers in response to competitive pressures. Additionally, the ability of our contract manufacturers to fulfill their obligations may be affected by economic, political or other forces that are beyond our control. Any such failure could have a material impact on our ability to meet customers' expectations and may materially impact our operating results.. • New product programs and introductions involve changing product specifications and customer requirements, unanticipated engineering complexities, difficulties in reallocating resources and overcoming resource limitations and with their increased complexity, which expose us to yield and product risk internally and with our suppliers.. These factors have caused considerable strain on our execution capabilities and customer relations. We have and could continue to see (a) periodic difficulty responding to customer delivery expectations for some of our products, (b) yield and quality problems, particularly with some of our new products and higher volume products, and (c) additional funds and other resources required to respond to these execution challenges. From time to time, we have had to divert resources from new product R&D and other functions to assist with resolving these matters. If we do not improve our performance in all of these areas, our operating results will be harmed, the commercial viability of new products may be challenged and our customers may choose to reduce or terminate their purchases of our products and purchase additional products from our competitors.. 16. Table of Contents. We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our sales.. We believe that we will continue to rely upon a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Any failure by us to continue capturing a significant share of these customers could materially harm our business. Dependence on a limited number of customers exposes us to the risk that order reductions from any one customer can have a material adverse effect on periodic revenue. Further, to the extent that there is consolidation among communications equipment manufacturers and service providers, we will have increased dependence on fewer customers who may be able to exert increased pressure on our prices and other contract terms. Customer consolidation activity and periodic manufacturing and inventory initiatives could also create the potential for disruptions in demand for our products as a consequence of such customers streamlining, reducing or delaying purchasing decisions.. We have a strategic alliance with SICPA, our principal customer for our light interference microflakes that are used to, among other things, provide security features in currency. Under a license and supply agreement, we rely exclusively on SICPA to market and sell one of these product lines, optically variable pigment, for document authentication applications worldwide. The agreement requires SICPA to purchase minimum quantities of these pigments over the term of the agreement. If SICPA fails to purchase these quantities, as and when required by the agreement, our business and operating results (including, among other things, our revenue and gross margin) will be harmed as we may be unable to find a substitute marketing and sales partner or develop these capabilities ourselves.. Our forecasts related to our growth strategy in 3D sensing and other applications may prove to be inaccurate.. Growth forecasts are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates which may not prove to be accurate.  Our estimate of the market opportunity related to 3D sensing is subject to significant uncertainty and is based on assumptions and estimates, including our internal analysis, industry experience and third-party data.  Accordingly, our estimated market opportunity may prove to be materially inaccurate. In addition, our growth and ability to serve a significant portion of this estimated market is subject to many factors, including our success in implementing our business strategy and expansion of 3D sensing and other applications for consumer electronics. We cannot assure you that we will be able to serve a significant portion of this market and the growth forecasts should not be taken as indicative of our future growth.. Movement towards virtualized networks and software solutions may result in lower demand for our hardware products and increased competition.. The markets for our NE and SE segments are increasingly looking towards virtualized networks and software solutions. While we are devoting substantial resources to meet these needs, this trend may result in lower demand for our legacy hardware products. Additionally barriers to entry are generally lower for software solutions, which may lead to increased competition for our products and services.. We face a number of risks related to our strategic transactions.. Our strategy continues to include periodic acquisitions and divestitures of businesses and technologies. Strategic transactions of this nature involve numerous risks, including the following:. • inadequate internal control procedures and disclosure controls to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or poor integration of a target company's or business's procedures and controls;. • diversion of management's attention from normal daily operations of the business;. • potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process R&D;. • difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience and where competitors have stronger market positions;. • difficulties in obtaining or providing sufficient transition services and accurately projecting the time and cost associated with providing these services;. • an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected or we may overpay for, or otherwise not realize the expected return on, our investments;. • we may not be able to recognize or capitalize on expected growth, synergies or cost savings:. • insufficient net revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions;. • potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies; and. • difficulty in forecasting revenues and margins.. 17. Table of Contents. Acquisitions may also cause us to:. • issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders' percentage ownership and may decrease earnings per share;. • assume liabilities, some of which may be unknown at the time of the acquisitions;. • record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing and potential periodic impairment charges;. • incur additional debt to finance such acquisitions;. • incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; or. • acquire, assume, or become subject to litigation related to the acquired businesses or assets.. Certain of our products are subject to governmental and industry regulations, certifications and approvals.. The commercialization of certain of the products we design, manufacture and distribute through our OSP segment may be more costly due to required government approval and industry acceptance processes. Development of applications for our light interference and diffractive microflakes may require significant testing that could delay our sales. For example, certain uses in cosmetics may be regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, which has extensive and lengthy approval processes. Durability testing by the automobile industry of our decorative microflakes used with automotive paints can take up to three years. If we change a product for any reason, including technological changes or changes in the manufacturing process, prior approvals or certifications may be invalid and we may need to go through the approval process again. If we are unable to obtain these or other government or industry certifications in a timely manner, or at all, our operating results could be adversely affected.. We face risks related to our international operations and revenue.. Our customers are located throughout the world. In addition, we have significant operations outside North America, including product development, manufacturing, sales and customer support operations.. Our international presence exposes us to certain risks, including the following:. • currency fluctuations;. • our ability to comply with a wide variety of laws and regulations of the countries in which we do business, including, among other things, customs, import/export, anti-bribery, anti-competition, tax and data privacy laws, which may be subject to sudden and unexpected changes;. • difficulties in establishing and enforcing our intellectual property rights;. • tariffs and other trade barriers;. • political, legal and economic instability in foreign markets, particularly in those markets in which we maintain manufacturing and product development facilities;. • difficulties in staffing and management;. • language and cultural barriers;. • seasonal reductions in business activities in the countries where our international customers are located;. • integration of foreign operations;. • longer payment cycles;. • difficulties in management of foreign distributors; and. • potential adverse tax consequences.. Net revenue from customers outside the Americas accounted for 52.3%, 53.3% and 48.9% of our total net revenue, for fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016 respectively. We expect that net revenue from customers outside North America will continue to account for a significant portion of our total net revenue. Lower sales levels that typically occur during the summer months in Europe and some other overseas markets may materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, the revenues we derive from many of our customers depend on international sales and further expose us to the risks associated with such international sales.. 18. Table of Contents. US Government trade actions could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position, and results of operation.. On March 8, 2018, the President of the United States issued a Proclamation to indefinitely impose a 25 percent tariff on certain imported steel products and a 10 percent tariff on certain imported aluminum products under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962. On March 22, 2018 the President of the United States announced his decisions on the actions that the U.S. government will take based on the findings of an investigation under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974. Subsequently in July 2018, the Trump Administration announced the imposition of a 25 percent tariff on approximately $50 billion worth of imports from China, $34 billion of which took effect immediately, the remaining $16 billion of which is scheduled to take effect August 23, 2018. Also in July 2018, the United States Trade Representative announced a proposal to increase the tariff on additional products of Chinese origin by 10%. The outcome of final actions under Section 301 and related developments remains uncertain. These tariffs, along with any additional tariffs or other trade actions that may be implemented, may increase the cost of certain materials and/or products that we import from China, thereby adversely affecting our profitability. These actions could require us to raise our prices, which could decrease demand for our products. As a result, these actions, including potential retaliatory measures by China and further escalation into a potential \"trade war\", may adversely impact our business. Given the uncertainty regarding the scope and duration of these trade actions by the United States or other countries, as well as the potential for additional trade actions, the impact on our operations and results remains uncertain.. Our business and operations could be adversely impacted in the event of a failure of our information technology infrastructure.. We rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our information technology infrastructure and our ability to expand and continually update this infrastructure in response to our changing needs. In some cases, we rely upon third party hosting and support services to meet these needs. The growing and evolving cyber risk environment means that individuals, companies, and organizations of all sizes, including VIAVI and its hosting and support partners, are increasingly vulnerable to the threat of intrusions and disruptions on their networks and systems by a wide range of actors on an ongoing and regular basis. We also design and manage IT systems and products that contain IT systems for various customers, and generally face the same threats for these systems as for our own internal systems.. We maintain information security staff, policies and procedures for managing risk to our networks and information systems, and conduct employee training on cyber-security to mitigate persistent and continuously evolving cyber-security threats.  Our network security measures include, but are not limit to, the implementation of firewalls, anti-virus protection, patches, log monitors, routine backups, off-site storage, network audits and other routine updates and modifications.  We also routinely monitor and develop our internal information technology systems to address risks to our information systems. Despite our implementation of these and other security measures and those of our third-party vendors, our systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access and other similar disruptions and intrusions that continue to emerge and evolve. Any system failure, accident or security breach could result in disruptions to our business processes, network degradation, and system down time, along with the potential that a third party will. exploit our critical assets such as intellectual property, proprietary business information, and data related to our customers, suppliers, and business partners.  To the extent that any disruption, degradation, downtime or other security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or systems, or in inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, it could adversely impact us and our clients, potentially resulting in, among other things, financial losses; our inability to transact business on behalf of our clients; violations of applicable privacy and other laws; regulatory fines, penalties, litigation, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs; and/or additional compliance costs. We may also incur additional costs related to cyber-security risk management and remediation. There can be no assurance that we or our service providers, if applicable, will not suffer losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches in the future or that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover all the costs resulting from such events. No assurances can be given that our efforts to reduce the risk of such attacks will be successful.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls may adversely affect our stock price.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. The Company is required to annually evaluate the effectiveness of the design and operation of its internal controls over financial reporting. Based on these evaluations, the Company may conclude that enhancements, modifications, or changes to internal controls are necessary or desirable. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. While management evaluates the effectiveness of the Company's internal controls on a regular basis, these controls may not always be effective. In August 2016 we determined that we had a material weakness related to an error in the determination of interim income taxes which caused our independent registered public accounting firm to issue a qualified report on our Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 2, 2016. As a result, management initiated a thorough and detailed remediation plan which included enhanced processes and designed controls to ensure a more precise review of the interim income tax provisions beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. As of July 1, 2017, the remediation plan has been completed and the material weakness has been remediated.. 19. Table of Contents. There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls, including collusion, management override, and failure in human judgment. In addition, control procedures are designed to reduce rather than eliminate financial statement risk. Additionally, if we or our independent registered public accounting firm are not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which these controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed in the future, or if our independent registered public accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules and/or regulations differently from our interpretation, then they may issue a qualified report. Furthermore, we may discover that the internal controls of businesses we acquire are inadequate or changes to our existing businesses may impact the effectiveness of our internal controls. These situations could require us to make changes to our internal controls and could cause our independent registered public accounting firm to issue a qualified report, which could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, and could negatively impact our stock price.. In August 2013, we issued $650.0 million of 0.625% Senior Convertible Notes due 2033, in March 2017, we issued $460.0 million of 1.00% Senior Convertible Notes due 2024, and in May 2018 we issued $225.0 million of 1.75% Senior Convertible Notes due 2023. The issuance of the Notes could dilute our existing stockholders and lower our reported earnings per share.. We issued $650.0 million of indebtedness in August 2013 in the form of 0.625% Senior Convertible Notes due 2033 (the \"2033 Notes\") of which $277.0 million are outstanding as of June 30, 2018 and $460.0 million of indebtedness in March 2017 in the form of 1.00% Senior Convertible Notes due 2024 (the \"2024 Notes\"). In May 2018, we issued $225 million of indebtedness in the form of 1.75% Senior Convertible Notes due 2023 (\"2023 Notes\"). The 2023 Notes included $155.5 million principal which was exchanged for $151.5 million principal amount of the 2033 notes, along with an additional $69.5 million from a private placement (the 2023, 2024, and 2033 Notes together referred to as the \"Notes\"). The issuance of the Notes substantially increased our principal payment obligations. Additionally, in fiscal 2016 we contributed $137.6 million in cash to Lumentum in connection with the Separation, subject to the requirements as set forth in the Contribution Agreement between the Company and Lumentum Operations LLC. Following the Separation we have substantially lower cash flow which increased our leverage. The degree to which we are leveraged could materially and adversely affect our ability to successfully obtain financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes and could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. In addition, the holders of the Notes are entitled to convert the Notes into shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of common stock under certain circumstances which would dilute our existing stockholders and lower our reported per share earnings.. If we have insufficient proprietary rights or if we fail to protect those we have, our business would be materially harmed. Our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to protect our products or product roadmaps.. We seek to protect our products and our product roadmaps in part by developing and/or securing proprietary rights relating to those products, including patents, trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation. The steps taken by us to protect our intellectual property may not adequately prevent misappropriation or ensure that others will not develop competitive technologies or products. Other companies may be investigating or developing other technologies that are similar to our own. It is possible that patents may not be issued from any of our pending applications or those we may file in the future and, if patents are issued, the claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to deter or prohibit others from making, using or selling products that are similar to ours. We do not own patents in every country in which we sell or distribute our products, and thus others may be able to offer identical products in countries where we do not have intellectual property protection. In addition, the laws of some territories in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including Europe, Asia-Pacific or Latin America, may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.. Any patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Additionally, we are currently a licensee in all of our operating segments for a number of third-party technologies, software and intellectual property rights from academic institutions, our competitors and others, and are required to pay royalties to these licensors for the use thereof. Unless we are able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, patents or other intellectual property held by others could inhibit our development of new products, impede the sale of some of our current products, substantially increase the cost to provide these products to our customers, and could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. In the past, licenses generally have been available to us where third-party technology was necessary or useful for the development or production of our products. In the future licenses to third-party technology may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.. Our products may be subject to claims that they infringe the intellectual property rights of others.. Lawsuits and allegations of patent infringement and violation of other intellectual property rights occur in our industry on a regular basis. We have received in the past, and anticipate that we will receive in the future, notices from third parties claiming that our products infringe their proprietary rights. Over the past several years there has been a marked increase in the number and potential severity of third-party patent infringement claims, primarily from two distinct sources. First, large technology companies, including some of our customers and competitors, are seeking to monetize their patent portfolios and have developed large internal organizations that have approached us with demands to enter into license agreements. Second, patent-holding companies, entities that do not make or sell products (often referred to as \"patent trolls\"), have claimed that our products infringe upon their proprietary. 20. Table of Contents. rights. We will continue to respond to these claims in the course of our business operations. In the past, the resolution of these disputes has not had a material adverse impact on our business or financial condition; however this may not be the case in the future. Further, the litigation or settlement of these matters, regardless of the merit of the claims, could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not we are successful. If we are unsuccessful, we could be required to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain licenses to the technology that is the subject of the litigation. We may not be successful in such development, or such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Without such a license, we could be enjoined from future sales of the infringing product or products, which could adversely affect our revenues and operating results.. The use of open source software in our products, as well as those of our suppliers, manufacturers and customers, may expose us to additional risks and harm our intellectual property position.. Certain of the software and/or firmware that we use and distribute (as well as that of our suppliers, manufacturers and customers) may be, be derived from, or contain, \"open source\" software, which is software that is generally made available to the public by its authors and/or other third parties. Such open source software is often made available under licenses which impose obligations in the event the software or derivative works thereof are distributed or re-distributed. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public, and/or license such derivative works under a particular type of license, rather than the forms of license customarily used to protect our own software products. While we believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software, in the event that a court rules that these licenses are unenforceable, or in the event the copyright holder of any open source software were to successfully establish in court that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release the source code of that work to the public and/or stop distribution of that work. Additionally, open source licenses are subject to occasional revision. In the event future iterations of open source software are made available under a revised license, such license revisions may adversely affect our ability to use such future iterations.. We face certain litigation risks that could harm our business.. We are and may become subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in or outside the ordinary course of business. The results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. Moreover, many of the complaints filed against us do not specify the amount of damages that plaintiffs seek, and we therefore are unable to estimate the possible range of damages that might be incurred should these lawsuits be resolved against us. While we are unable to estimate the potential damages arising from such lawsuits, certain of them assert types of claims that, if resolved against us, could give rise to substantial damages. Thus, an unfavorable outcome or settlement of one or more of these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Even if these lawsuits are not resolved against us, the uncertainty and expense associated with unresolved lawsuits could seriously harm our business, financial condition and reputation. Litigation is costly, time-consuming and disruptive to normal business operations. The costs of defending these lawsuits have been significant, will continue to be costly and may not be covered by our insurance policies. The defense of these lawsuits could also result in continued diversion of our management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. For additional discussion regarding litigation, see the \"Legal Proceedings\" portion of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We may be subject to environmental liabilities which could increase our expenses and harm our operating results.. We are subject to various federal, state and foreign laws and regulations governing the environment, including those governing pollution and protection of human health and the environment and, recently, those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and holding producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of certain products. Such laws and regulations have been passed in several jurisdictions in which we operate, are often complex and are subject to frequent changes. We will need to ensure that we comply with such laws and regulations as they are enacted, as well as all environmental laws and regulations, and as appropriate or required, that our component suppliers also comply with such laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with such laws, we could face sanctions for such noncompliance, and our customers may refuse to purchase our products, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. With respect to compliance with environmental laws and regulations in general, we have incurred, and in the future could incur, substantial costs for the cleanup of contaminated properties, either those we own or operate or to which we have sent wastes in the past, or to comply with such environmental laws and regulations. Additionally, we could be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics as a result of such clean-up or compliance obligations. If we were found to be in violation of these laws, we could be subject to governmental fines and liability for damages resulting from such violations. If we have to make significant capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws, or if we are subject to significant expenditures in connection with a violation of these laws, our financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely impacted.. We may not generate positive returns on our research and development strategy.. 21. Table of Contents. Developing our products is expensive, and the investment in product development may involve a long payback cycle. For fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, our research and development expenses were $133.3 million, or approximately 15.1% of our revenue, $136.3 million, or approximately 16.8% of our revenue, and $166.4 million, or approximately 18.4% of our revenue respectively. We expect to continue to invest heavily in research and development in order to expand the capabilities of 3D sensing and smart phone sensors, handheld spectrometer solution and portable test instruments, introduce new products and features and build upon our technology. We believe one of our greatest strengths lies in our innovation and our product development efforts. By investing in research and development including through our acquisitions, we believe we are well positioned to continue to execute on our strategy and take advantage of market opportunities.  We expect that our results of operations may be impacted by the timing and size of these investments. In addition, these investments may take several years to generate positive returns, if ever.. We are subject to provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that could subject us to additional costs and liabilities.. We are subject to the SEC rules implementing the requirements of Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act which establish disclosure and reporting requirements for companies who use \"conflict\" minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in their products. Complying with the disclosure requirements requires substantial diligence efforts to determine the source of any conflict minerals used in our products and may require third-party auditing of our diligence process. These efforts may require internal resources that would otherwise be directed towards operational activities.. Since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of the conflict minerals used in our products. Additionally, if we are unable to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict free, they may choose a competitor's products which could materially impact our financial condition and operating results.. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance.. We release guidance in our quarterly earnings conference calls, quarterly earnings releases, or otherwise, regarding our future performance that represents our management's estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which includes forward-looking statements, will be based on projections prepared by our management.. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. We will continue to state possible outcomes as high and low ranges which are intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed but are not intended to imply that actual results could not fall outside of the suggested ranges. The principal reason that we release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such third parties.. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions underlying the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results may vary from our guidance and the variations may be material. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged not to rely upon our guidance in making an investment decision regarding our common stock.. Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth in this \"Risk Factors\" section in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could result in the actual operating results being different from our guidance, and the differences may be adverse and material.. Certain provisions in our charter and under Delaware laws could hinder a takeover attempt.. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibiting, under some circumstances, publicly-held Delaware corporations from engaging in business combinations with some stockholders for a specified period of time without the approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding voting stock. Such provisions could delay or impede the removal of incumbent directors and could make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us, even if such events could be beneficial, in the short-term, to the interests of the stockholders. In addition, such provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions providing for the limitations of liability and indemnification of our directors and officers, allowing vacancies on our board of directors to be filled by the vote of a majority of the remaining directors, granting our board of directors the authority to establish additional series of preferred stock and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of such shares (commonly known as \"blank check preferred\") and providing that our stockholders can take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders, which may only be called by the Chairman of the board, the Chief. 22. Table of Contents. Executive Officer or the board of directors. These provisions may also have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying changes in control or change in our management.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations.. As of June 30, 2018, we had U.S. federal and state net operating losses, or NOLs, of $5,166.9 million and $723.6 million, respectively, and U.S. federal and state tax credit carryforwards of $106.6 million and $50.3 million respectively, which may be utilized against future income taxes. Utilization of these NOLs and tax credit carryforwards may be subject to a substantial annual limitation if the ownership change limitations under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions are triggered by changes in the ownership of our capital stock. In general, an ownership change occurs if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by \"5-percent shareholders\" that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. Similar rules may apply under state tax laws. Accordingly, purchases of our capital stock by others could limit our ability to utilize our NOLs and tax credit carryforwards in the future.. Furthermore, we may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to utilize our NOLs and tax credit carryforwards before they expire. Due to uncertainty regarding the timing and extent of our future profitability, we continue to record a valuation allowance to offset our U.S. and certain of our foreign deferred tax assets because of uncertainty related to our ability to utilize our NOLs and tax credit carryforwards before they expire.. If any of these events occur, we may not derive some or all of the expected benefits from our NOLs and tax credit carryforwards."
