[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. The occurrence of any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such case the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline. This report also contains forward-looking statements and estimates that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks and uncertainties described below.. Risks Relating to Our Business. We earn substantially all of our revenues based on AUM, and any reduction in AUM would reduce our revenues and profitability. AUM fluctuates based on many factors, including investment performance, client withdrawals and difficult market conditions.. We earn substantially all of our revenues from asset-based fees from investment management products and services to individuals and institutions. Therefore, if our AUM declines, our fee revenue will decline, which will reduce our profitability as certain of our expenses are fixed. There are several reasons that AUM could decline:. <U+0095> The performance of our investment strategies is critical to our business, and any real or perceived negative absolute or relative performance could negatively impact the maintenance and growth of AUM. Net flows related to our strategies can be affected by investment performance relative to other competing strategies or to established benchmarks. Our investment strategies are rated, ranked, recommended or assessed by independent third parties, distribution partners, and industry periodicals and services. These assessments may influence the investment decisions of our clients. If the performance or assessment of our strategies is seen as underperforming relative to peers, it could result in an increase in the withdrawal of assets by existing clients and the inability to attract additional commitments from existing and new clients. In addition, certain of our strategies have or may have capacity constraints, as there is a limit to the number of securities available for the strategy to operate effectively. In those instances, we may choose to limit access to those strategies to new or existing investors, which we have recently done for two mutual funds managed by Sycamore Capital, or Sycamore, which had an aggregate of $16.0 billion in AUM as of December 31, 2017.     <U+0095> General domestic and global economic and political conditions can influence AUM. Changes in interest rates, the availability and cost of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, changes in laws, trade barriers, commodity prices, currency exchange rates and controls and national and international political circumstances (including wars, terrorist acts and security operations) and other conditions may impact the equity and credit markets, which may influence our AUM. If the security markets decline or experience volatility, our AUM and our revenues could be negatively impacted. In addition, diminishing investor confidence in the markets and/or adverse market conditions could result in a decrease in investor risk tolerance. Such a decrease could prompt investors to reduce their rate of commitment or to fully withdraw from markets, which could lower our overall AUM.    <U+0095> Capital and credit markets can experience substantial volatility. The significant volatility in the markets in the recent past has highlighted the interconnection of the global markets and demonstrated how the deteriorating financial condition of one institution may materially adversely impact the performance of other institutions. In the event of extreme circumstances, including economic, political or business crises, such as a widespread systemic failure in the global financial system or failures of firms that have significant obligations as counterparties, we may suffer significant declines in AUM and severe liquidity or valuation issues.. 28. Table of Contents. <U+0095> Changes in interest rates can have adverse effects on our AUM. Increases in interest rates from their historically low present levels may adversely affect the net asset values of our AUM. Furthermore, increases in interest rates may result in reduced prices in equity markets. Conversely, decreases in interest rates could lead to outflows in fixed income assets that we manage as investors seek higher yields.. Any of these factors could reduce our AUM and revenues and, if our revenues decline without a commensurate reduction in our expenses, would lead to a reduction in our net income.. We derive substantially all of our revenues from contracts and relationships that may be terminated upon short or no notice.. We derive substantially all of our revenues from investment advisory and sub-advisory agreements, all of which are terminable by clients upon short notice or no notice.. Our investment advisory agreements with registered funds, which are funds registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the 1940 Act, including mutual funds and ETFs, are generally terminable by the funds' boards or a vote of a majority of the funds' outstanding voting securities on not more than 60 days' written notice, as required by law. After an initial term (not to exceed two years), each registered fund's investment advisory agreement must be approved and renewed annually by that fund's board, including by its independent members. In addition, all of our separate account clients and certain of the mutual funds that we sub-advise have the ability to re-allocate all or any portion of the assets that we manage away from us at any time with little or no notice. When a sub-adviser terminates its sub-advisory agreement to manage a fund that we advise there is a risk that investors in the fund could redeem their assets in the fund, which would cause our AUM to decrease.. These investment advisory agreements and client relationships may be terminated or not renewed for any number of reasons. The decrease in revenues that could result from the termination of a material client relationship or group of client relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Investors in certain funds that we advise can redeem their assets from those funds at any time without prior notice.. Investors in the mutual funds and certain other pooled investment vehicles that we advise or sub-advise may redeem their assets from those funds at any time on fairly limited or no prior notice, thereby reducing our AUM. These investors may redeem for any number of reasons, including general financial market conditions, the absolute or relative investment performance we have achieved, or their own financial conditions and requirements. In a declining stock market, the pace of redemptions could accelerate. Poor investment performance relative to other funds tends to result in decreased client commitments and increased redemptions. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we generated approximately 86% of our revenues from mutual funds and other pooled investment vehicles that we advise (including our proprietary mutual funds, or the Victory Funds, VictoryShares, and other entities for which we are adviser or sub-adviser). The redemption of assets from those funds could adversely affect our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our earnings.. 29. Table of Contents. If our strategies perform poorly, clients could redeem their assets and we could suffer a decline in our AUM, which would reduce our earnings.. The performance of our strategies is critical in retaining existing client assets as well as attracting new client assets. If our strategies perform poorly for any reason, our earnings could decline because:. <U+0095> our existing clients may redeem their assets from our strategies or terminate their relationships with us;     <U+0095> the Morningstar and Lipper ratings and rankings of mutual funds and ETFs we manage may decline, which may adversely affect the ability of those funds to attract new or retain existing assets; and    <U+0095> third-party financial intermediaries, advisors or consultants may remove our investment products from recommended lists due to poor performance or for other reasons, which may lead our existing clients to redeem their assets from our strategies or reduce asset inflows from these third parties or their clients.. Our strategies can perform poorly for a number of reasons, including: general market conditions; investor sentiment about market and economic conditions; investment styles and philosophies; investment decisions; the performance of the companies in which our strategies invest and the currencies in which those investment are made; the fees we charge; the liquidity of securities or instruments in which our strategies invest; and our inability to identify sufficient appropriate investment opportunities for existing and new client assets on a timely basis. In addition, while we seek to deliver long-term value to our clients, volatility may lead to under-performance in the short term, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. In addition, when our strategies experience strong results relative to the market, clients' allocations to our strategies typically increase relative to their other investments and we sometimes experience withdrawals as our clients rebalance their investments to fit their asset allocation preferences despite our strong results.. While clients do not have legal recourse against us solely on the basis of poor investment results, if our strategies perform poorly, we are more likely to become subject to litigation brought by dissatisfied clients. In addition, to the extent clients are successful in claiming that their losses resulted from fraud, negligence, willful misconduct, breach of contract or other similar misconduct, these clients may have remedies against us, the mutual funds and other pooled investment vehicles we advise and/or our investment professionals under various U.S. and non-U.S. laws.. The historical returns of our existing strategies may not be indicative of their future results or of the strategies we may develop in the future.. The historical returns of our strategies and the ratings and rankings we or the mutual funds and ETFs that we advise have received in the past should not be considered indicative of the future results of these strategies or of any other strategies that we may develop in the future. The investment performance we achieve for our clients varies over time and the variance can be wide. The ratings and rankings we or the mutual funds and ETFs we advise have received are typically revised monthly. Our strategies' returns have benefited during some periods from investment opportunities and positive economic and market conditions. In other periods, general economic and market conditions have negatively affected investment opportunities and our strategies' returns. These negative conditions may occur again, and in the future we may not be able to identify and invest in profitable investment opportunities within our current or future strategies.. New strategies that we launch or acquire in the future may present new and different investment, regulatory, operational, distribution and other risks than those presented by our current strategies. New. 30. Table of Contents. strategies may invest in instruments with which we have no or limited experience, create portfolios that present new or different risks or have higher performance expectations that are more difficult to meet. Any real or perceived problems with future strategies or vehicles could cause a disproportionate negative impact on our business and reputation.. We depend on third parties to market our strategies.. Our ability to attract additional assets to manage is highly dependent on our access to third-party intermediaries. We gain access to investors in the Victory Funds and VictoryShares primarily through consultants, 401(k) platforms, broker-dealers, financial advisors and mutual fund platforms through which shares of the funds are sold. We have relationships with certain third-party intermediaries through which we access clients in multiple distribution channels. Our 10 largest intermediary relationships across multiple distribution channels represented approximately 34% of our total AUM as of December 31, 2017.. We compensate most of the intermediaries through which we gain access to investors in the Victory Funds and VictoryShares by paying fees, most of which are a percentage of assets invested in the Victory Funds and VictoryShares through that intermediary and with respect to which that intermediary provides stockholder and administrative services. The allocation of such fees between us and the Victory Funds and VictoryShares is determined by the board of the Victory Funds and VictoryShares, based on information and a recommendation from us, with the intent of allocating to us all costs attributable to marketing and distribution of (i) shares of the Victory Funds not otherwise covered by distribution fees paid pursuant to a distribution and service plan adopted in accordance with Rule 12b-1 under the 1940 Act and (ii) VictoryShares.. In the future, our expenses in connection with those intermediary relationships could increase if the portion of those fees determined to be in connection with marketing and distribution, or otherwise allocated to us, increased. Clients of these intermediaries may not continue to be accessible to us on terms we consider commercially reasonable, or at all. The absence of such access could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We access institutional clients primarily through consultants. Our institutional business is dependent upon referrals from consultants. Many of these consultants review and evaluate our products and our firm from time to time. As of December 31, 2017, 37% of our institutional separate accounts AUM was acquired through consultants. Poor reviews or evaluations of either a particular strategy or us as an investment management firm may result in client withdrawals or may impair our ability to attract new assets through these consultants.. The loss of key investment professionals or members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We depend on the skills and expertise of our portfolio managers and other investment professionals and our success depends on our ability to retain the key members of our investment teams, who possess substantial experience in investing and have been primarily responsible for the historical investment performance we have achieved.. Because of the tenure and stability of our portfolio managers, our clients may attribute the investment performance we have achieved to these individuals. The departure of a portfolio manager could cause clients to withdraw assets from the strategy, which would reduce our AUM, investment management fees and our net income. The departure of a portfolio manager also could cause consultants and intermediaries to stop recommending a strategy, clients to refrain from allocating additional assets to the strategy or delay such additional assets until a sufficient new track record has been established, and could also cause the departure of other portfolio managers or investment professionals. We have instituted succession planning at our Franchises in an attempt to minimize the. 31. Table of Contents. disruption resulting from these potential changes, but we cannot predict whether such efforts will be successful (for example, we recently made the strategic decision to wind down our Diversified Franchise due to the retirement of both its CIOs).. We also rely upon the contributions of our senior management team to establish and implement our business strategy and to manage the future growth of our business. The loss of any of the senior management team could limit our ability to successfully execute our business strategy or adversely affect our ability to retain existing and attract new client assets and related revenues.. Any of our investment or management professionals may resign at any time, join our competitors or form a competing company. Although many of our portfolio managers and each of our named executive officers are subject to post-employment non-compete obligations, these non-competition provisions may not be enforceable or may not be enforceable to their full extent. In addition, we may agree to waive non-competition provisions or other restrictive covenants applicable to former investment or management professionals in light of the circumstances surrounding their relationship with us. We do not generally carry \"key man\" insurance that would provide us with proceeds in the event of the death or disability of any of the key members of our investment or management teams.. Competition for qualified investment and management professionals is intense and we may fail to successfully attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Our ability to attract and retain these personnel will depend heavily on the amount and structure of compensation and opportunities for equity ownership we offer. Any cost-reduction initiative or adjustments or reductions to compensation or changes to our equity ownership culture could cause instability within our existing investment teams and negatively impact our ability to retain key personnel. In addition, changes to our management structure, corporate culture and corporate governance arrangements could negatively impact our ability to retain key personnel.. We rely on third parties to provide products or services for the operation of our business, and a failure or inability by such parties to provide these products or services could materially adversely affect our business.. We have determined, based on an evaluation of various factors that it is more efficient to use third parties for certain functions and services. As a result, we have contracted with a limited number of third parties to provide critical operational support, such as middle- and back-office functions, information technology services and various fund administration and accounting roles, and the funds contract with third parties in custody and transfer agent roles. We have a limited ability to monitor or control the performance of these third parties and our business would be disrupted if key service providers fail or become unable to continue to perform those services. We are also limited in our ability to ensure such providers have appropriate back-up and system redundancies in place to ensure their continuous operation. Moreover, to the extent our third-party providers increase their pricing, our financial performance will be negatively impacted. In addition, upon termination of a third-party contract, we may encounter difficulties in replacing the third-party on favorable terms, transitioning services to another vendor, or in assuming those responsibilities ourselves, which may have a material adverse effect on our business.. Operational risks may disrupt our business, result in losses or limit our growth.. We are heavily dependent on the capacity and reliability of the communications, information and technology systems supporting our operations, whether developed, owned and operated by us or by third parties. We also rely on manual workflows and a variety of manual user controls. Operational risks such as trading or other operational errors or interruption of our financial, accounting, trading, compliance and other data processing systems, whether caused by human error, fire, other natural disaster or pandemic, power or telecommunications failure, cyber-attack or viruses, act of terrorism or war or otherwise, could result in a disruption of our business, liability to clients, regulatory intervention. 32. Table of Contents. or reputational damage, and thus materially adversely affect our business. The potential for some types of operational risks, including, for example, trading errors, may be increased in periods of increased volatility, which can magnify the cost of an error. Insurance and other safeguards might not be available or might only partially reimburse us for our losses.. Although we have backup systems in place, our backup procedures and capabilities in the event of a failure or interruption may not be adequate. As our client base, number and complexity of strategies and client relationships increase, developing and maintaining our operational systems and infrastructure may become increasingly challenging.. We may also suffer losses due to employee negligence, fraud or misconduct. Non-compliance with policies, employee misconduct, negligence or fraud could result in legal liability, regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. In recent years, a number of multinational financial institutions have suffered material losses due to the actions of \"rogue traders\" or other employees. It is not always possible to deter or detect employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not always be effective. Employee misconduct could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The significant growth we have experienced over the past few years may be difficult to sustain and our growth strategy is dependent in part upon our ability to make and successfully integrate new strategic acquisitions.. Our AUM has increased from $17.9 billion following our 2013 management-led buyout with Crestview GP from KeyCorp to $61.8 billion as of December 31, 2017, primarily as a result of acquisitions. The absolute measure of our AUM represents a significant rate of growth that has been and may continue to be difficult to sustain. The continued long-term growth of our business will depend on, among other things, successfully making new acquisitions, retaining key investment professionals, maintaining existing strategies and selectively developing new, value-added strategies. There is no certainty that we will be able to identify suitable candidates for acquisition at prices and terms we consider attractive, consummate any such acquisition on acceptable terms, have sufficient resources to complete an identified acquisition or that our strategy for pursuing acquisitions will be effective. In addition, any acquisition can involve a number of risks, including the existence of known, unknown or contingent liabilities. An acquisition may impose additional demands on our staff that could strain our operational resources and require expenditure of substantial legal, investment banking and accounting fees. We may be required to issue additional shares of common stock or spend significant cash to consummate an acquisition, resulting in dilution of ownership or additional debt leverage, or spend additional time and money on facilitating the acquisition that otherwise would be spent on the development and expansion of our existing business.. We may not be able to successfully manage the process of integrating an acquired company's people and other applicable assets to extract the value and synergies projected to be realized in connection with the acquisition. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our combined businesses and the possible loss of key personnel and AUM. The diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with acquisitions and the integration of an acquired company's operations could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our business growth will also depend on our success in achieving superior investment performance from our strategies, as well as our ability to maintain and extend our distribution capabilities, to deal with changing market and industry conditions, to maintain adequate financial and business controls and to comply with new legal and regulatory requirements arising in response to both the increased sophistication of the investment management industry and the significant market and economic events of the last decade.. 33. Table of Contents. We may not be able to manage our growing business effectively or be able to sustain the level of growth we have achieved historically.. A majority of our existing AUM is managed in long-only equity investments. We have also historically derived a substantial portion of our revenues from fees on investments in small- and mid-cap equities and substantially all of our revenues from U.S. clients.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 81% of our AUM was invested in U.S. and international equity. Under market conditions in which there is a general decline in the value of equity securities, the AUM in each of our equity strategies is likely to decline. Unlike some of our competitors, we do not currently offer strategies that invest in privately held companies or take short positions in equity securities, which could offset some of the poor performance of our long-only equity strategies under such market conditions. Even if our investment performance remains strong during such market conditions relative to other long-only equity strategies, investors may choose to withdraw assets from our management or allocate a larger portion of their assets to non-long-only or non-equity strategies. In addition, the prices of equity securities may fluctuate more widely than the prices of other types of securities, making the level of our AUM and related revenues more volatile.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 66% of our total AUM was concentrated in small- and mid-cap equities. As a result, a substantial portion of our operating results depends upon the performance of those investments, and our ability to retain client assets in those investments. If a significant portion of the investors in such investments decided to withdraw their assets or terminate their investment advisory agreements for any reason, including poor investment performance or adverse market conditions, our revenues from those investments would decline, which would have a material adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition.. In addition, we have historically derived substantially all of our revenue from clients in the United States. If economic conditions weaken or slow, particularly in the United States, this could have a substantial adverse impact on our results of operations.. Our efforts to establish and develop new teams and strategies may be unsuccessful and could negatively impact our results of operations and could negatively impact our reputation and culture.. We seek to add new investment teams that invest in a way that is consistent with our philosophy of offering high value-added strategies. We also look to offer new strategies managed by our existing teams. We expect the costs associated with establishing a new team and/or strategy initially to exceed the revenues generated, which will likely negatively impact our results of operations. If new strategies, whether managed by a new team or by an existing team, invest in instruments, or present operational issues and risks, with which we have little or no experience, it could strain our resources and increase the likelihood of an error or failure.. In addition, the historical returns of our existing strategies may not be indicative of the investment performance of any new strategy, and the poor performance of any new strategy could negatively impact the reputation of our other strategies.. We may support the development of new strategies by making one or more seed investments using capital that would otherwise be available for our general corporate purposes and acquisitions. Making such a seed investment could expose us to potential capital losses.. The performance of our strategies or the growth of our AUM may be constrained by unavailability of appropriate investment opportunities.. The ability of our investment teams to deliver strong investment performance depends in large part on their ability to identify appropriate investment opportunities in which to invest client assets. If. 34. Table of Contents. the investment team for any of our strategies is unable to identify sufficient appropriate investment opportunities for existing and new client assets on a timely basis, the investment performance of the strategy could be adversely affected. In addition, if we determine that sufficient investment opportunities are not available for a strategy, we may choose to limit the growth of the strategy by limiting the rate at which we accept additional client assets for management under the strategy, closing the strategy to all or substantially all new investors or otherwise taking action to limit the flow of assets into the strategy. If we misjudge the point at which it would be optimal to limit access to or close a strategy, the investment performance of the strategy could be negatively impacted. The risk that sufficient appropriate investment opportunities may be unavailable is influenced by a number of factors, including general market conditions, but is particularly acute with respect to our strategies that focus on small- and mid-cap equities, and is likely to increase as our AUM increases, particularly if these increases occur very rapidly. By limiting the growth of strategies, we may be managing the business in a manner that reduces the total amount of our AUM and our investment management fees over the short term.. An assignment could result in termination of our investment advisory agreements to manage SEC-registered funds and could trigger consent requirements in our other investment advisory agreements.. Under the 1940 Act, each of the investment advisory agreements between registered funds and our subsidiary, VCM, and investment sub-advisory agreements between the investment adviser to a registered fund and VCM, will terminate automatically in the event of its assignment, as defined in the 1940 Act.. Assignment, as generally defined under the 1940 Act and the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, or the Advisers Act, includes direct assignments as well as assignments that may be deemed to occur, under certain circumstances, upon the direct or indirect transfer of a \"controlling block\" of our outstanding voting securities. A transaction is not an assignment under the 1940 Act or the Advisers Act, however, if it does not result in a change of actual control or management of VCM.. Upon the occurrence of such an assignment, VCM could continue to act as adviser or sub-adviser to any such registered fund only if that fund's board and shareholders approved a new investment advisory agreement, except in the case of certain of the registered funds that we sub-advise for which only board approval would be necessary pursuant to a manager-of-managers SEC exemptive order. In addition, as required by the Advisers Act, each of the investment advisory agreements for the separate accounts and pooled investment vehicles we manage provides that it may not be assigned, as defined in the Advisers Act, without the consent of the client. If an assignment were to occur, we cannot be certain that we would be able to obtain the necessary approvals from the boards and shareholders of the registered funds we advise or the necessary consents from our separate account or pooled investment vehicle clients.. If an assignment of an investment advisory agreement is deemed to occur, and our clients do not consent to the assignment or enter into a new agreement, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Reputational harm could result in a loss of AUM and revenues.. The integrity of our brands and reputation is critical to our ability to attract and retain clients, business partners and employees and maintain relationships with consultants. We operate within the highly regulated financial services industry and various potential scenarios could result in harm to our reputation. They include internal operational failures, failure to follow investment or legal guidelines in the management of accounts, intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of our products and services in offering or advertising materials, public relations information, social media or other external communications, employee misconduct or investments in businesses or industries that are controversial. 35. Table of Contents. to certain special interest groups. Any real or perceived conflict between our and our stockholders' interests and our clients' interests, as well as any fraudulent activity or other exposure of client assets or information, may harm our reputation. The negative publicity associated with any of these factors could harm our reputation and adversely impact relationships with existing and potential clients, third-party distributors, consultants and other business partners and subject us to regulatory sanctions or litigation. Damage to our brands or reputation could negatively impact our standing in the industry and result in loss of business in both the short term and the long term.. Additionally, while we have ultimate control over the business activities of our Franchises, they generally have the autonomy to manage their day-to-day operations, and if we fail to intervene in potentially serious matters that may arise, our reputation could be damaged and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our failure to comply with investment guidelines set by our clients, including the boards of registered funds, and limitations imposed by applicable law, could result in damage awards against us and a loss of AUM, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. When clients retain us to manage assets on their behalf, they generally specify certain guidelines regarding investment allocation and strategy that we are required to follow in managing their assets. The boards of registered funds we manage generally establish similar guidelines regarding the investment of assets in those funds. We are also required to invest the registered funds' assets in accordance with limitations under the 1940 Act and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Internal Revenue Code. Other clients, such as plans subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or ERISA, or non-U.S. funds, require us to invest their assets in accordance with applicable law. Our failure to comply with any of these guidelines and other limitations could result in losses to clients or investors in a fund which, depending on the circumstances, could result in our obligation to make clients or fund investors whole for such losses. If we believed that the circumstances did not justify a reimbursement, or clients and investors believed the reimbursement we offered was insufficient, they could seek to recover damages from us or could withdraw assets from our management or terminate their investment advisory agreement with us. Any of these events could harm our reputation and materially adversely affect our business.. If our techniques for managing risk are ineffective, we may be exposed to material unanticipated losses.. In order to manage the significant risks inherent in our business, we must maintain effective policies, procedures and systems that enable us to identify, monitor and mitigate our exposure to operational, legal and reputational risks, including from the investment autonomy of our Franchises. Our risk management methods may prove to be ineffective due to their design or implementation, or as a result of the lack of adequate, accurate or timely information or otherwise. If our risk management efforts are ineffective, we could suffer losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. Additionally, we could be subject to litigation, particularly from our clients or investors, and sanctions or fines from regulators.. Our techniques for managing operational, legal and reputational risks in client portfolios may not fully mitigate the risk exposure in all economic or market environments, including exposure to risks that we might fail to identify or anticipate. Because our clients invest in our strategies in order to gain exposure to the portfolio securities of the respective strategies, we have not adopted corporate-level risk management policies to manage market, interest rate or exchange rate risks that could affect the value of our overall AUM.. 36. Table of Contents. We provide a broad range of services to the Victory Funds, VictoryShares and sub-advised mutual funds which may expose us to liability.. We provide a broad range of administrative services to the Victory Funds and VictoryShares, including providing personnel to the Victory Funds and VictoryShares to serve as directors and officers, the preparation or supervision of the preparation of the Victory Funds' and VictoryShares' regulatory filings, maintenance of board calendars and preparation or supervision of the preparation of board meeting materials, management of compliance and regulatory matters, provision of stockholder services and communications, accounting services, including the supervision of the activities of the Victory Funds' and VictoryShares' accounting services provider in the calculation of the funds' net asset values, supervision of the preparation of the Victory Funds' and VictoryShares' financial statements and coordination of the audits of those financial statements, tax services, including calculation of dividend and distribution amounts and supervision of tax return preparation, supervision of the work of the Victory Funds' and VictoryShares' other service providers and VCA acting as a distributor. If we make a mistake in the provision of those services, the Victory Funds or VictoryShares could incur costs for which we might be liable. In addition, if it were determined that the Victory Funds or VictoryShares failed to comply with applicable regulatory requirements as a result of action or failure to act by our employees, we could be responsible for losses suffered or penalties imposed. In addition, we could have penalties imposed on us, be required to pay fines or be subject to private litigation, any of which could decrease our future income or negatively affect our current business or our future growth prospects. Although less extensive than the range of services we provide to the Victory Funds and VictoryShares, we also provide a limited range of services, in addition to investment management services, to sub-advised mutual funds.. In addition, we from time to time provide information to the funds for which we act as sub-adviser (or to a person or entity providing administrative services to such a fund), and to UCITS, for which we act as investment manager (or to the promotor of the UCITS or a person or entity providing administrative services to such a UCITS), which is used by those funds or UCITS in their efforts to comply with various regulatory requirements. If we make a mistake in the provision of those services, the sub-advised fund or UCITS could incur costs for which we might be liable. In addition, if it were determined that the sub-advised fund or UCITS failed to comply with applicable regulatory requirements as a result of action or failure to act by our employees, we could be responsible for losses suffered or penalties imposed. In addition, we could have penalties imposed on us, be required to pay fines or be subject to private litigation, any of which could decrease our future income or negatively affect our current business or our future growth prospects.. Failure to implement effective information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities could disrupt operations and cause financial losses.. Our operations rely on the effectiveness of our information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities to provide secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems, networks and mobile devices and on the computer systems, networks and mobile devices of third parties on which we rely. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software, networks and mobile devices may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks, sabotage, unauthorized access, computer viruses, worms or other malicious code, and other events that have a security impact. We also cannot directly control any cyber security plans and systems put in place by third-party service providers, on whom we rely. An externally caused information security incident, such as a hacker attack, virus or worm, or an internally caused issue, such as failure to control access to sensitive systems, could materially interrupt business operations or cause disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential client or competitive information and could result in material financial loss, loss of competitive position, regulatory actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal liability. If one or more of such events occur, it potentially could jeopardize our or our clients', employees' or counterparties' confidential and other. 37. Table of Contents. information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our or third-party computer systems, networks and mobile devices, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients', our counterparties' or third parties' operations. As a result, we could experience material financial loss, loss of competitive position, regulatory actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal liability, which, in turn, could cause a decline in our earnings. Additionally, some of our client contracts require us to indemnify clients in the event of a cyber breach if our systems do not meet minimum security standards. We may be required to spend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against fully or not fully covered through any insurance that we maintain.. Certain of our strategies invest principally in the securities of non-U.S. companies, which involve foreign currency exchange, tax, political, social and economic uncertainties and risks.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 7% of our total AUM was invested in strategies that primarily invest in securities of non-U.S. companies and securities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect the returns of our clients who are invested in these securities. In addition, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to non-U.S. currencies is likely to result in a decrease in the U.S. dollar value of our AUM, which, in turn, would likely result in lower revenue and profits.. Investments in non-U.S. issuers may also be affected by tax positions taken in countries or regions in which we are invested as well as political, social and economic uncertainty. Declining tax revenues may cause governments to assert their ability to tax the local gains and/or income of foreign investors (including our clients), which could adversely affect client interests in investing outside their home markets. Many financial markets are not as developed, or as efficient, as the U.S. financial markets, and, as a result, those markets may have limited liquidity and higher price volatility, and may lack established regulations. Liquidity may also be adversely affected by political or economic events, government policies, and social or civil unrest within a particular country, and our ability to dispose of an investment may also be adversely affected if we increase the size of our investments in smaller non-U.S. issuers. Non-U.S. legal and regulatory environments, including financial accounting standards and practices, may also be different, and there may be less publicly available information about such companies. These risks could adversely affect the performance of our strategies that are invested in securities of non-U.S. issuers and may be particularly acute in the emerging or less developed markets in which we invest. In addition to our Trivalent, Sophus and Expedition Franchises, certain of our other Franchises invest in emerging or less developed markets.. The expansion of our business outside of the United States raises tax and regulatory risks, may adversely affect our profit margins and places additional demands on our resources and employees.. We have expanded and intend to continue to expand our distribution efforts into non-U.S. markets through partnered distribution efforts and product offerings, including Europe, Japan, Singapore and Hong Kong. For example, we organized and serve as investment manager of two Ireland-domiciled UCITS, the Victory Sophus Emerging Markets UCITS Fund and the Victory Expedition Emerging Markets Small Cap UCITS Fund, each of which launched during the first quarter of 2017. Clients outside the United States may be adversely affected by political, social and economic uncertainty in their respective home countries and regions, which could result in a decrease in the net client cash flows that come from such clients. This expansion has required and will continue to require us to incur a number of up-front expenses, including those associated with obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals and office space, as well as additional ongoing expenses, including those associated with leases, the employment of additional support staff and regulatory compliance.. 38. Table of Contents. Non-U.S. clients may be less accepting of the U.S. practice of payment for certain research products and services through soft dollars (\"soft dollars\" are a means of paying brokerage firms for their services through commission revenue, rather than through direct payments) or such practices may not be permissible in certain jurisdictions, which could have the effect of increasing our expenses. In addition, the European Commission recently adopted several acts under the revised Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (known as \"MiFID II\") that would prevent the \"bundling\" of the cost of research together with trading commissions. As a result, clients subject to MiFID II will be unable to use soft dollars to pay for research services once MiFID II becomes effective in the United Kingdom and in Europe in 2018.. Our U.S.-based employees routinely travel outside the United States as a part of our investment research process or to market our services and may spend extended periods of time in one or more non-U.S. jurisdictions. Their activities outside the United States on our behalf may raise both tax and regulatory issues. If and to the extent we are incorrect in our analysis of the applicability or impact of non-U.S. tax or regulatory requirements, we could incur costs or penalties or be the subject of an enforcement or other action. Operating our business in non-U.S. markets is generally more expensive than in the United States. In addition, costs related to our distribution and marketing efforts in non-U.S. markets generally have been more expensive than comparable costs in the United States. To the extent that our revenues do not increase to the same degree as our expenses increase in connection with our continuing expansion outside the United States, our profitability could be adversely affected. Expanding our business into non-U.S. markets may also place significant demands on our existing infrastructure and employees.. We are also subject to a number of laws and regulations governing payments and contributions to political persons or other third parties, including restrictions imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, as well as trade sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. Department of State. Similar laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions may also impose stricter or more onerous requirements and implementing them may disrupt our business or cause us to incur significantly more costs to comply with those laws. Different laws may also contain conflicting provisions, making compliance with all laws more difficult. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws or sanctions could subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, profit disgorgement, injunctions on future conduct, securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations or the market value of our Class A common stock. While we have developed and implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure strict compliance by us and our personnel with the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws or sanctions in jurisdictions in which we operate, such policies and procedures may not be effective in all instances to prevent violations.. On June 23, 2016, United Kingdom citizens voted in a referendum to leave the European Union, and on March 29, 2017, the United Kingdom provided formal notice to the European Union of its intent to withdraw. The consequence of the exit of the United Kingdom, together with what may be protracted negotiations around the terms of the exit, are uncertain and may have adverse effects on the United Kingdom, European and worldwide economy and market conditions and contribute to currency exchange fluctuations. Any negative impact to overall investor confidence or instability in the global macroeconomic environment could have an adverse economic impact on our results of operations.. Our substantial indebtedness may expose us to material risks.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $499.7 million of outstanding term loans under the 2014 Credit Agreement. Following the completion of the IPO and the refinancing of the 2014 Credit Agreement, we had $360.0 million of outstanding term loans under the Credit Agreement. Our substantial indebtedness may make it more difficult for us to withstand or respond to adverse or changing. 39. Table of Contents. business, regulatory and economic conditions or to take advantage of new business opportunities or make necessary capital expenditures. In addition, the Credit Agreement contains financial and operating covenants that may limit our ability to conduct our business. While we are currently in compliance in all material respects with the financial and operating covenants under the Credit Agreement, we cannot assure that at all times in the future we will satisfy all such financial and operating covenants (or any such covenants applicable at the time) or obtain any required waiver or amendment, in which event all outstanding indebtedness could become immediately due and payable. This could result in a substantial reduction in our liquidity and could challenge our ability to meet future cash needs of the business.. To the extent we service our debt from our cash flow, such cash will not be available for our operations or other purposes. Because of our significant debt service obligations, the portion of our cash flow used to service those obligations could be substantial if our revenues decline, whether because of market declines or for other reasons. Any substantial decrease in net operating cash flows or any substantial increase in expenses could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements or force us to modify our operations. Our ability to repay the principal amount of any outstanding loans under the Credit Agreement, to refinance our debt or to obtain additional financing through debt or the sale of additional equity securities will depend on our performance, as well as financial, business and other general economic factors affecting the credit and equity markets generally or our business in particular, many of which are beyond our control. Any such alternatives may not be available to us on satisfactory terms or at all.. Potential impairment of goodwill and intangible assets could reduce our assets.. As of December 31, 2017, our goodwill and intangible assets totaled $692.1 million. The value of these assets may not be realized for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, significant redemptions, loss of clients, damage to brand name and unfavorable economic conditions. In accordance with the guidance under Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, ASC 350-20 \"Intangibles - Goodwill and Other,\" we review the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets not subject to amortization on an annual basis, or more frequently if indications exist suggesting that the fair value of our intangible assets may be below their carrying value. Determining goodwill and intangible assets, and evaluating them for impairment, requires significant management estimates and judgment, including estimating value and assessing useful life in connection with the allocation of purchase price in the acquisition creating them. We evaluate the value of intangible assets subject to amortization whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Should such reviews indicate impairment, a reduction of the carrying value of the intangible asset could occur, resulting in a charge that may, in turn, adversely affect our AUM, results of operations and financial condition.. Disruption to the operations of third parties whose functions are integral to our ETF platform may adversely affect the prices at which VictoryShares trade, particularly during periods of market volatility.. Shares of ETFs, such as VictoryShares, trade on stock exchanges at prices at, above or below the ETF's most recent net asset value. While ETFs utilize a creation/redemption feature and arbitrage mechanism designed to make it more likely that the ETF's shares normally will trade at prices close to the ETF's net asset value, exchange prices may deviate significantly from the ETF's net asset value. ETF market prices are subject to numerous potential risks, including trading halts invoked by a stock exchange, inability or unwillingness of market makers, authorized participants, settlement systems or other market participants to perform functions necessary for an ETF's arbitrage mechanism to function effectively, or significant market volatility. If market events lead to incidences where ETFs trade at prices that deviate significantly from an ETF's net asset value, or trading halts are invoked by the relevant stock exchange or market, investors may lose confidence in ETF products and redeem their holdings, which may cause our AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. 40. Table of Contents. If we were deemed an investment company required to register under the 1940 Act, we would become subject to burdensome regulatory requirements and our business activities could be restricted.. Generally, a company is an \"investment company\" required to register under the 1940 Act if, absent an applicable exception or exemption, it (i) is, or holds itself out as being, engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities; or (ii) engages, or proposes to engage, in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire \"investment securities\" having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis.. We hold ourselves out as an investment management firm and do not propose to engage primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. We believe we are engaged primarily in the business of providing investment management services and not in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. We also believe our primary source of income is properly characterized as income earned in exchange for the provision of services. We believe less than 40% of our total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis comprise assets that could be considered investment securities.. We intend to conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed an investment company required to register under the 1940 Act. However, if we were to be deemed an investment company required to register under the 1940 Act, restrictions imposed by the 1940 Act, including limitations on our capital structure and our ability to transact with our affiliates, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted and could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and operations.. Our expenses are subject to fluctuations that could materially impact our results of operations.. Our results of operations are dependent upon the level of our expenses, which can vary from period to period. We have certain fixed expenses that we incur as a going concern, and some of those expenses are not subject to adjustment. If our revenues decrease, without a corresponding decrease in expenses, our results of operations would be negatively impacted. While a majority of our expenses are variable and we attempt to project expense levels in advance, there is no guarantee that an unforeseen expense will not arise or that we will be able to adjust our variable expenses quickly enough to match a declining asset base. Consequently, either event could have either a temporary or permanent negative impact on our results of operations.. Risks Relating to Our Industry. Recent trends in the investment management industry could reduce our AUM, revenues and net income.. Certain passive products and asset classes, such as index and certain types of ETFs, are becoming increasingly popular with investors, including institutional investors. In recent years, across the investment management industry, passive products have experienced inflows and traditional actively managed products have experienced outflows, in each case, in the aggregate. In order to maintain appropriate fee levels in a competitive environment, we must be able to continue to provide clients with investment products and services that are viewed as appropriate in relation to the fees charged, which may require us to demonstrate that our strategies can outperform such passive products. If our clients, including our funds' boards, were to view our fees as being high relative to the market or the returns provided by our investment products, we may choose to reduce our fee levels or existing clients may withdraw their assets in order to invest in passive products, and we may be unable to attract additional commitments from existing and new clients, which would lead to a decline in our AUM and market share. To the extent we offer such passive products, we may not be able to compete with other firms offering similar products.. 41. Table of Contents. Our revenues and net income are dependent on our ability to maintain current fee levels for the products and services we offer. The competitive nature of the investment management industry has led to a trend toward lower fees in certain segments of the investment management market. Although our AUM-average weighted average fee rate increased from 2013 through the end of 2017 as we repositioned our business to focus on higher-fee asset classes, we anticipate that the average fee rate is likely to decline as our Solutions Platform (which has a lower fee rate than other products) continues to grow. Our ability to sustain fee levels depends on future growth in specific asset classes and distribution channels. These factors, as well as regulatory changes, could further inhibit our ability to sustain fees for certain products. A reduction in the fees charged by us could reduce our revenues and net income.. Our fees vary by asset class and produce different revenues per dollar of AUM based on factors such as the type of assets being managed, the applicable strategy, the type of client and the client fee schedule. Institutional clients may have significant negotiating leverage in establishing the terms of an advisory relationship, particularly with respect to the level of fees paid, and the competitive pressure to attract and retain institutional clients may impact the level of fee income earned by us. We may decline to manage assets from potential clients who demand lower fees even though such assets would increase our revenue and AUM in the short term.. As an investment management firm, we are subject to extensive regulation.. Investment management firms are subject to extensive regulation in the United States, primarily at the federal level, including regulation by the SEC under the 1940 Act and the Advisers Act, by the U.S. Department of Labor, or the DOL, under ERISA, by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or the CFTC, by the National Futures Association, or NFA, under the Commodity Exchange Act, and by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc., or FINRA. The U.S. mutual funds and ETFs we manage are registered with and regulated by the SEC as investment companies under the 1940 Act. The Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on investment advisers, including recordkeeping, advertising and operating requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities. The 1940 Act imposes similar obligations, as well as additional detailed operational requirements, on registered funds, which must be adhered to by their investment advisers. We have also expanded our distribution effort into non-U.S. markets through partnered distribution efforts and product offerings, including Europe, Japan, Singapore and Hong Kong. In the future, we may further expand our business outside of the United States in such a way or to such an extent that we may be required to register with additional foreign regulatory agencies or otherwise comply with additional non-U.S. laws and regulations that do not currently apply to us and with respect to which we do not have compliance experience. Our lack of experience in complying with any such non-U.S. laws and regulations may increase our risk of being subject to regulatory actions and becoming party to litigation in such non-U.S. jurisdictions, which could be more expensive. Moreover, being subject to regulation in multiple jurisdictions may increase the cost, complexity and time required for engaging in transactions that require regulatory approval.. Accordingly, we face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities, including extended investigation and surveillance activity, adoption of costly or restrictive new regulations and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. Among other things, we could be fined, lose our licenses or be prohibited or limited from engaging in some of our business activities or corporate transactions. The requirements imposed by our regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect clients and other third parties who deal with us, and are not designed to protect our stockholders. Consequently, these regulations often serve to limit our activities, including through net capital, client protection and market conduct requirements.. 42. Table of Contents. The regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to continual change and regulatory developments designed to increase oversight may materially adversely affect our business.. We operate in a legislative and regulatory environment that is subject to continual change, the nature of which we cannot predict. We may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other U.S. or non-U.S. governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets. For example, the DOL's fiduciary rule and related exemptions began a phased implementation with the fiduciary rule becoming applicable on June 9, 2017 and certain related exemptions becoming applicable July 1, 2019. These rules substantially expand the definition of \"investment advice\" and thereby broaden the circumstances under which product distributors could be considered fiduciaries under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code. Under the fiduciary rule, certain communications with plans, plan participants and individual retirement account, or IRA, holders, including the marketing of products, and marketing of investment management or advisory services, could be deemed fiduciary investment advice, causing increased exposure to fiduciary liability if the distributor does not recommend what is in the client's best interests. The DOL also issued amendments to certain of its prohibited transaction exemptions, and issued a new exemption that applies more onerous disclosure and contract requirements to, and increases fiduciary requirements and fiduciary liability exposure in respect of, transactions involving ERISA plans, plan participants and IRAs. To the extent that the fiduciary rule and exemptions lead to changes in financial intermediary and retirement plan investment preferences, and increased pressure on product fees and expenses, such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and operations.. The requirements imposed by our regulators (including both U.S. and non-U.S. regulators) are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect clients and other third parties who deal with us, and are not designed to protect our stockholders. Consequently, these regulations often serve to limit our activities and/or increase our costs, including through client protection and market conduct requirements. New laws or regulations, or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations, applicable to us and our clients may adversely affect our business. Our ability to function in this environment will depend on our ability to constantly monitor and promptly react to legislative and regulatory changes. There have been a number of highly publicized regulatory inquiries that have focused on the investment management industry. These inquiries already have resulted in increased scrutiny of the industry and new rules and regulations for mutual funds and investment managers. This regulatory scrutiny may limit our ability to engage in certain activities that might be beneficial to our stockholders.. We also may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations, as well as by courts. It is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new U.S. or non-U.S. laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. Compliance with any new laws or regulations could be more difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business. See \"Regulatory Environment and Compliance.\". The investment management industry is intensely competitive.. The investment management industry is intensely competitive, with competition based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, fees, continuity of investment professionals and client relationships, the quality of services provided to clients, corporate positioning and business reputation, continuity of selling arrangements with intermediaries and differentiated products. A number of factors, including the following, serve to increase our competitive risks:. <U+0095> a number of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, more comprehensive name recognition and more personnel than we do;. 43. Table of Contents. <U+0095> potential competitors have a relatively low cost of entering the investment management industry;    <U+0095> certain investors may prefer to invest with an investment manager that is not publicly traded based on the perception that a publicly traded asset manager may focus on the manager's own growth to the detriment of investment performance for clients;    <U+0095> other industry participants, hedge funds and alternative asset managers may seek to recruit our investment professionals; and     <U+0095> certain competitors charge lower fees for their investment management services than we do.. Additionally, intermediaries through which we distribute our funds may also sell their own proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our strategies. If we are unable to compete effectively, our earnings could be reduced and our business could be materially adversely affected.. Risks Relating to Our Capital Structure. An active trading market for our Class A common stock may not develop and the market price for our Class A common stock may decline.. Prior to the IPO, there was no public market for our Class A common stock. An active trading market for our Class A common stock may never develop or be sustained, which could adversely impact the market to sell our shares and could depress the market price of our shares.. The market price of our Class A common stock is likely to be volatile and could decline.. The stock market in general has been highly volatile. As a result, the market price and trading volume for our Class A common stock may also be highly volatile, and investors in our Class A common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Factors that could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to fluctuate significantly include:. <U+0095> our operating and financial performance and prospects and the performance of other similar companies;     <U+0095> our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;    <U+0095> conditions that impact demand for our products and services;    <U+0095> the public's reaction to our press releases, financial guidance and other public announcements, and filings with the SEC;     <U+0095> changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities or research analysts who track our Class A common stock;     <U+0095> market and industry perception of our level of success in pursuing our growth strategy;    <U+0095> strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;    <U+0095> changes in government and other regulations;    <U+0095> changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;    <U+0095> departure of key personnel;    <U+0095> the number of shares publicly traded;    <U+0095> investor scrutiny of our dual-class structure, including new rules adopted by certain index providers, such as S&P Dow Jones and FTSE Russell, that limit or preclude inclusion of companies with multiple-class capital structure in certain indices;. 44. Table of Contents. <U+0095> sales of common stock by us, our investors or members of our management team; and    <U+0095> changes in general market, economic and political conditions in the U.S. and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from natural disasters, telecommunications failures, cyber-attacks, civil unrest in various parts of the world, acts of war, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events.. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the trading volume and market price of our Class A common stock.. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, stockholders often file securities class-action lawsuits against such company. Our involvement in a class-action lawsuit could divert our senior management's attention and, if adversely determined, could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The dual class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting control with those stockholders who hold our Class B common stock.. Our Class B common stock has ten votes per share and our Class A common stock has one vote per share. Our Employee Shareholders Committee, Crestview GP, Reverence Capital, our directors and executive officers and each of and their respective affiliates, hold in the aggregate 97.9% of the total voting power of our outstanding common stock and the unvested restricted stock. Because of the ten-to-one voting ratio between our Class B common stock and Class A common stock, the holders of our Class B common stock collectively will continue to control a majority of the voting power of our common stock and therefore will be able to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. Our Class B common stock will be converted into shares of Class A common stock, which conversion will occur automatically, in the case of each share of Class B common stock, upon transfers (subject to limited exceptions, such as certain transfers effected for estate planning purposes), a termination of employment by an employee stockholder or upon the date the number of shares of Class B common stock then outstanding (including unvested restricted shares) is less than 10% of the aggregate number of shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock then outstanding (including unvested restricted shares). We may issue additional shares of our Class B common stock in the future, including in connection with acquisitions or equity grants to employees.. The conversion of Class B common stock to Class A common stock will have the effect, over time, of increasing the relative voting power of those holders of Class B common stock who retain their shares in the long term, including the holders of newly issued shares of Class B common stock and the holders of Class B common stock subject to the Employee Shareholders' Agreement, whose shares will be voted by the Employee Shareholders Committee.. Crestview GP controls us and its interests may conflict with ours or other shareholders' in the future.. Crestview GP does not hold any of our Class A common stock, but beneficially owns 51.9% of our common stock through its beneficial ownership of our Class B common stock and 62.6% of the total voting power of our outstanding common stock and unvested restricted stock. As a result, Crestview GP has the ability to elect a majority of the members of our board of directors and thereby control our policies and operations, including the appointment of management, future issuances of our common stock or other securities, the payment of dividends, if any, on our common stock (including the Class A common stock), the incurrence of debt by us, amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and the entering into of extraordinary transactions. Crestview GP will also be able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval and will be able to cause or prevent a change in control of us or a change in the composition of our board of directors and could preclude any acquisition of us. This concentration of voting control could deprive other stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for shares of. 45. Table of Contents. their Class A common stock as part of a sale of us and ultimately might affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Further, the interests of Crestview GP may not in all cases be aligned with other shareholders' interests.. In addition, Crestview GP may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to other stockholders. For example, Crestview GP could cause us to make acquisitions that increase our indebtedness or cause us to sell revenue-generating assets. Crestview GP is in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that none of Crestview GP or Reverence Capital or any of their respective affiliates will have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. Crestview GP or Reverence Capital also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us, which could have an adverse effect on our growth prospects.. Future sales of shares by stockholders could cause our stock price to decline.. Sales of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. 12,899,315 shares of our Class A common stock and 55,046,787 shares of our Class B common stock, which are convertible, at the option of the holder, into an equal number of shares of Class A common stock, are outstanding. Of these shares, all of the shares of Class A common stock is freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act, unless purchased by our \"affiliates,\" as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The 55,046,787 shares of our Class B common stock held by Crestview GP, Reverence Capital, our directors and officers and other existing stockholders, are \"restricted securities\" within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Restricted securities may be sold in the public market only if they are registered under the Securities Act or are sold pursuant to an exemption from registration under Rule 144 or Rule 701 under the Securities Act. Subject to the lock-up agreements described below, restricted shares held by non-affiliates that have been owned for more than six months may be sold without regard to the provisions of Rule 144 (other than the current information requirement).. We, our executive officers, directors, institutional shareholders and substantially all of our other existing security holders have agreed to a \"lock-up,\" meaning that, subject to certain exceptions, neither we nor they will sell any shares without the prior consent of the representatives of the underwriters, for 180 days after February 7, 2018, the date our IPO registration statement became effective. In addition, certain of our significant stockholders may distribute shares that they hold to their investors who themselves may then sell into the public market following the expiration of the lock-up period. Such sales may not be subject to the volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144. As resale restrictions end, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline if the holders of shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. In addition, holders of approximately 46,214,267 shares, or 84.0%, of our Class B common stock have registration rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the sale of their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders in the future. Once we register the shares for the holders of registration rights, they can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to the restrictions contained in the lock-up agreements.. In the future, we may issue additional shares of common stock or other equity or debt securities convertible into common stock in connection with a financing, acquisition or employee arrangement, or. 46. Table of Contents. in certain other circumstances. Any of these issuances could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and could cause the trading price of our Class A common stock to decline.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our Class A common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If there is no coverage of us by securities or industry analysts, the trading price for our shares could be negatively impacted. In the event we obtain securities or industry analyst coverage and if one or more of these analysts downgrades our shares or publishes misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our shares could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and any decision on our part to comply with certain reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies could make our Class A common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act, enacted in April 2012, and, for as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may choose to take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies, including, but not limited to, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation (including Chief Executive Officer pay ratio disclosure) in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. As an emerging growth company, we have elected to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. As a result, our consolidated financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of issuers who are required to comply with the effective dates for new or revised accounting standards that are applicable to public companies.. We may take advantage of these exemptions until such time that we are no longer an emerging growth company. Accordingly, the information contained herein may be different than the information provided by other public companies. We could remain an emerging growth company for up to five years, or until the earliest of (i) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our annual gross revenues are at least $1.07 billion, (ii) the date that we become a \"large accelerated filer\" as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act, which would occur if, among other things, the market value of our common equity securities held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, or (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in nonconvertible debt securities during the preceding three-year period.. We cannot predict whether investors will find our Class A common stock less attractive if we choose to rely on one or more of the exemptions described above. If investors find our Class A common stock less attractive as a result of any decisions to reduce future disclosure, there may be a less active trading market for our Class A common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract our management, which could make it difficult to manage our business, particularly after we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\". We have historically operated as a private company and have not been subject to the same financial and other reporting and corporate governance requirements as a public company. We are now required to file annual, quarterly and other reports with the SEC. We need to prepare and timely file. 47. Table of Contents. financial statements that comply with SEC reporting requirements. We also are subject to other reporting and corporate governance requirements under the listing standards of NASDAQ and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which will impose significant compliance costs and obligations upon us. Being a public company requires a significant commitment of additional resources and management oversight, which add to operating costs. These changes will also place significant additional demands on our finance and accounting staff, which may not have prior public company experience or experience working for a newly public company, and on our financial accounting and information systems, and we may need to, in the future, hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company reporting experience and technical accounting knowledge. Other expenses associated with being a public company include increases in auditing, accounting and legal fees and expenses, investor relations expenses, increased directors' fees and director and officer liability insurance costs, registrar and transfer agent fees and listing fees, as well as other expenses. As a public company, we are required, among other things, to:. <U+0095> prepare and file periodic reports, and distribute other stockholder communications, in compliance with the federal securities laws and the NASDAQ rules;    <U+0095> define and expand the roles and the duties of our board of directors and its committees;    <U+0095> institute more comprehensive compliance, investor relations and internal audit functions; and    <U+0095> evaluate and maintain our system of internal control over financial reporting, and report on management's assessment thereof, in compliance with rules and regulations of the SEC and the PCAOB.. In particular, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to document and test the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with an established internal control framework, and to report on our conclusions as to the effectiveness of our internal controls. Likewise, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act unless we choose to utilize the exemption from such attestation requirement available to \"emerging growth companies.\" As described in the previous risk factor, we could potentially qualify as an emerging growth company until December 30, 2023. In addition, we are required under the Exchange Act to maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. This could result in a decrease in the value of our Class A common stock. Failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities.. We do not currently intend to pay regular cash dividends on our common stock.. We have no current plans to declare and pay any cash dividends. We currently intend to retain all our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, the success of an investment in our Class A common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that our Class A common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares.. Future offerings of debt or equity securities may rank senior to our Class A common stock.. If we decide to issue debt securities in the future, which would rank senior to shares of our common stock, it is likely that they will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. We and, indirectly, our stockholders will bear the cost of. 48. Table of Contents. issuing and servicing such securities. We may also issue preferred equity, which will have superior rights relative to our common stock, including with respect to voting and liquidation.. Furthermore, if our future access to public markets is limited or our performance decreases, we may need to carry out a private placement or public offering of our Class A common stock at a lower price than the initial public offering price.. Because our decision to issue debt, preferred or other equity or equity-linked securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our Class A common stock will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our Class A common stock and diluting the value of their shareholdings in us.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the rules of NASDAQ, and, as a result, we will qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements.. Crestview GP controls a majority of the voting power of our common stock. As a result, we are a \"controlled company\" under NASDAQ's corporate governance listing standards. As a controlled company, we are exempt from the obligation to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirements:. <U+0095> that a majority of our board of directors consist of independent directors, as defined under the rules of NASDAQ;     <U+0095> that we have a corporate governance and nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and    <U+0095> that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities.. We intend to take advantage of these exemptions for so long as Crestview GP holds a majority of our voting power. Accordingly, our stockholders will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of NASDAQ's corporate governance requirements, which could make our stock less attractive to investors or otherwise harm our stock price.. Provisions in our charter documents could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable.. Certain provisions in our governing documents could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us difficult, even if such events would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. Among other things, these provisions:. <U+0095> permit our board of directors to establish the number of directors and fill any vacancies and newly created directorships;     <U+0095> authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that our board of directors could use to implement a stockholder rights plan;     <U+0095> provide that our board of directors is expressly authorized to amend or repeal any provision of our bylaws;     <U+0095> restrict the forum for certain litigation against us to Delaware;    <U+0095> establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at annual stockholder meetings;    <U+0095> provide for a dual-class common stock structure pursuant to which holders of our Class B common stock will have ten votes per share compared to the one vote per share of our Class A. 49. Table of Contents. common stock and thereby will have the ability to control the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval;   <U+0095> establish a classified board of directors with three classes of directors and the removal of directors only for cause;     <U+0095> require that actions to be taken by our stockholders be taken only at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders, and not by written consent, once Crestview GP owns 50% or less of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock;    <U+0095> establish certain limitations on convening special stockholder meetings; and    <U+0095> restrict business combinations with interested stockholders.. These provisions may delay or prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace members of our management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. Anti-takeover provisions could depress the price of our Class A common stock by acting to delay or prevent a change in control of us.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty, any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws or any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees and may discourage these types of lawsuits."
