[1] "Item  1A. Risk Factors. Many risk factors affect our business. As discussed above, we have entered into the merger agreement with Ventas. The risks discussed below affect our business currently and many of those will continue to affect our business if the Mergers are completed. Certain of the risks below will affect our business only if the Mergers are not completed and we continue to operate as a stand-alone entity. The occurrence of a risk factor may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to pay distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common stock.. Risks Related to the Mergers. Uncertainty regarding the proposed Mergers and the diversion of management's attention from our ongoing business operations could adversely affect our financial results.. Uncertainty about the effect of the Mergers on employees and tenants may have an adverse effect on us. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel, and could cause tenants and others who deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships. Employee retention and recruitment may be particularly challenging, as employees and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company.. In addition, the pursuit of the Mergers and the preparation for the integration may place a significant burden on management and internal resources. Any significant diversion of management attention away from ongoing business operations and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could affect our financial results.. We are subject to various contractual restrictions and requirements while the Mergers are pending that could adversely affect our financial results.. The merger agreement restricts us, without Ventas' consent, from making certain acquisitions and dispositions, engaging in leasing activity, engaging in capital raising transactions and taking other specified actions while the Mergers are pending. In addition, the merger agreement requires that we sell the Erdman design-build and development business prior to closing and that we take steps to separate the Erdman business from the rest of our business pending the closing. These restrictions and requirements may prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our business prior to completion of the Mergers or termination of the merger agreement.. We may be unable to obtain satisfaction of all conditions to complete the Mergers in the anticipated timeframe, or at all.. Completion of the Mergers is contingent upon the sale of the Erdman business, as well as customary closing conditions, including the absence of any injunction and certain other litigation. We may be unable to satisfy all the conditions to the Mergers, in which case the Mergers will not be consummated. In addition, satisfying the conditions to, and completion of, the merger may take longer than, and could cost more than, we expect. Any delay in completing the Mergers may adversely affect the benefits that we and Ventas expect to achieve from the Mergers and the integration of our businesses.. If the Mergers are not completed, our financial results may be adversely affected and we will be subject to several risks, including but not limited to:. <U+0095>    payment to Ventas of a termination fee of $15 million, plus $5 million as reimbursement of its expenses, as specified in the merger agreement, depending on the nature of the termination; and. <U+0095>    being subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the Mergers.. Any delay or inability to satisfy all conditions to complete the Mergers, or failure to complete the Mergers could negatively affect our future business, financial condition or results of operation.. Certain of our directors and executive officers may have interests in the Mergers that may differ from the interests of our stockholders, including, if the Mergers are completed, the receipt of financial and other benefits.. 12. Table of Contents. Certain of our executive officers and directors may have interests in the Mergers that are in addition to, and may be different from, the interests of our stockholders generally. These interests include acceleration of vesting and payouts of their restricted stock and LTIP units, the right to potentially receive cash severance payments and other benefits under executive employment agreements.. Pending litigation against us and the current members of our board of directors could result in an injunction preventing completion of the Mergers or the payment of damages in the event the Mergers are completed.. On December 29, 2011, a complaint was filed in the Superior Court for State of North Carolina, Mecklenburg County, against us, our directors and Ventas on behalf of a putative class of similarly situated investors, alleging that the our board of directors breached its fiduciary duties regarding the Company Merger and that Ventas aided and abetted the alleged breach of fiduciary duties. Beginning on January 4, 2012, six other putative class action suits were filed in the Maryland Circuit Court for Baltimore City against the same defendants and alleging similar breach of fiduciary duty and aiding and abetting claims, although certain complaints also named our Operating Partnership, MergerSub and OP MergerSub as defendants. On January 27, 2012, we also received a letter from an entity purporting to be a stockholder demanding that the board terminate the Company Merger and the sale of the Erdman business and that the board conduct an investigation into the Company Merger and the sale of the Erdman business. The letter also made a request for access to certain books and records of the company related to the Company Merger and the sale of the Erdman business. The cases pending in Maryland were consolidated by the Court on January 31, 2012. On February 3, 2012, the plaintiff in the North Carolina action filed an amended complaint, and on February 9, 2012, the plaintiffs in the Maryland action filed an amended complaint, including the class and derivative actions. All of the pending cases ask that the Company Merger be enjoined and seek other unspecified monetary relief. On February 21, 2012, defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint.. On February 29, 2012, we entered into a memorandum of understanding with the plaintiffs in the Maryland and North Carolina cases regarding the settlement of the pending claims. Pursuant to the terms of the proposed settlement, we agreed to make certain supplemental disclosures related to the proposed Company Merger. The memorandum of understanding contemplates that the parties will enter into a settlement agreement after a period of confirmatory discovery, which will be subject to customary conditions, including court approval following notice to our stockholders. In the event the parties enter into a settlement agreement, a hearing will be scheduled in which the Maryland Court will consider the fairness, reasonableness, and adequacy of the settlement. If the settlement is finally approved by the Court, it will resolve and release all claims in all actions that were or could have been brought challenging any aspect of the proposed Merger, the Merger Agreement, and any disclosure made in connection therewith, among other claims, pursuant to terms that will be disclosed to stockholders prior to final approval of the settlement.. In addition, in connection with the settlement, the parties contemplate that plaintiffs' counsel will file a petition in the Maryland Court for an award of attorneys' fees and expenses to be paid by or on behalf of Defendants, which Defendants may oppose. Defendants will pay or cause to be paid any attorneys' fees and expenses awarded by the Maryland Court. There can be no assurance that the parties will ultimately enter into a settlement agreement or that the Maryland Court will approve the settlement even if the parties were to enter into a settlement agreement. In such event, the proposed settlement as contemplated by the memorandum of understanding may be terminated.. One of the conditions to the closing of the Mergers is that no decree, ruling, judgment, decision, order or injunction shall have been entered by any court of competent jurisdiction that has the effect of prohibiting or restraining the completion of the Mergers. If for any reason the cases are not settled and if any of the plaintiffs are successful in obtaining an injunction prohibiting the defendants from completing the Mergers, then such injunction may prevent the Mergers from becoming effective or from becoming effective within the expected timeframe. [In addition, if any suit, action or proceeding before any court or other governmental entity shall have been instituted or shall be pending, with respect to certain matters disclosed in the merger agreement disclosure schedule, where an unfavorable outcome in such suit, action or proceeding would, in the sole and absolute discretion of Ventas, adversely affect the anticipated business or economic benefits to Ventas and its affiliates of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement, the Mergers will not be completed. If completion of the Mergers is prevented or delayed, it could result in substantial costs to us. In addition, we could incur costs associated with the indemnification of our directors and officers.. 13. Table of Contents. Risks Related to our Properties and Operations. Our real estate investments are concentrated in medical office buildings and healthcare facilities, making us more vulnerable economically than if our investments were diversified.. As a REIT, we invest primarily in real estate. Within the real estate industry, we selectively own, develop, redevelop, acquire, and manage medical facilities. We are subject to risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate. The risks resulting from a lack of diversification become even greater as a result of our business strategy to invest primarily in medical facilities. A downturn in the medical facilities industry or in the commercial real estate industry could materially adversely affect the value of our properties. A downturn in the healthcare industry could negatively affect our tenants' ability to make rent payments to us, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. These adverse effects may be more pronounced than if we held a diverse portfolio of investments outside of real estate or outside of medical facilities.. We depend on significant tenants.. For the year ended December 31, 2011, our five largest tenants represented $21.5 million, or 23.2%, of the annualized rent generated by our properties. Our five largest tenants based on annualized rents are Carolinas HealthCare System, Bon Secours St. Francis Hospital, East Jefferson General Hospital, Lancaster General Hospital, and Palmetto Health Alliance. Our significant tenants, as well as other tenants, may experience a downturn in their businesses, which may weaken their financial condition and result in their failure to make timely rental payments or default under their leases. In the event of any tenant default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment.. Recent market conditions in the U.S. and European economies, and other events or circumstances beyond our control, may continue to adversely affect our industry, business, results of operations, contractual commitments, and access to capital.. Recent market conditions and continued uncertainty in the U.S. and European economies, including inflation, deflation or stagflation, the systemic impact of high levels of unemployment, volatile energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a distressed real estate market have contributed to increased market volatility and business and consumer confidence. This difficult operating environment may continue to adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and/or increase costs, thereby reducing our operating income and earnings. It may continue to adversely impact the ability of our tenants to maintain occupancy and rates in our properties. These economic conditions may continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock.. Adverse economic or other conditions in the markets in which we do business may negatively affect our occupancy levels and rental rates and therefore our operating results.. Our operating results are dependent upon maximizing occupancy levels and rental rates in our portfolio. Adverse economic or other conditions in the markets in which we operate may lower our occupancy levels and limit our ability to increase rents or require us to offer rental discounts. The following factors are primary among those which may adversely affect the operating performance of our properties:. <U+0095>    periods of economic slowdown or recession, rising interest rates or declining demand for medical office buildings and healthcare facilities, or the public perception that any of these events may occur, could result in a general decline in rental rates or an increase in tenant defaults;. <U+0095>    the national economic climate in which we operate, may be adversely impacted by, among other factors, a reduction in the availability of debt or equity financing, industry slowdowns, relocation of businesses and changing demographics;. 14. Table of Contents. <U+0095>    local or regional real estate market conditions such as the oversupply of medical office buildings and healthcare facilities or a reduction in demand for medical office buildings and healthcare facilities in a particular area;. <U+0095>    negative perceptions by prospective tenants of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of our properties and the neighborhoods in which they are located;. <U+0095>    earthquakes and other natural disasters, terrorist acts, civil disturbances or acts of war which may result in uninsured or underinsured losses; and. <U+0095>    changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws.. The failure of our properties to generate revenues sufficient to meet our cash requirements, including operating and other expenses, debt service and capital expenditures, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock .. The majority of our consolidated wholly-owned and joint venture properties are located in Georgia, North Carolina, and South Carolina, and changes in these markets may materially adversely affect us.. Our consolidated wholly-owned and joint venture properties located in Georgia, North Carolina, and South Carolina, provided approximately 8.4%, 21.7% and 24.3%, respectively, of our total annualized rent for the year ended December 31, 2011. As a result of the geographic concentration of properties in these markets, we are particularly exposed to downturns in these local economies or other changes in local real estate market conditions. In the event of negative economic changes in these markets, our business, financial condition, results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. Our investments in development and redevelopment projects may not yield anticipated returns, which would harm our operating results and reduce the amount of funds available for distributions.. A component of our growth strategy has included development and redevelopment opportunities. To the extent that we continue to engage in any development or redevelopment projects, we will be subject to the following risks normally associated with these projects:. <U+0095>    we may be unable to obtain financing for these projects on attractive terms or at all;. <U+0095>    we may not complete development projects on schedule or within budgeted amounts;. <U+0095>    we may encounter delays or denials in obtaining all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations;. <U+0095>    occupancy rates and rents at newly developed or redeveloped properties may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, and may result in our investment not being profitable; and. <U+0095>    start-up costs may be higher than anticipated.. In deciding whether to develop or redevelop a particular property, we make certain assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. We may underestimate the costs necessary to bring the property up to the standards established for its intended market position or we may be unable to increase occupancy at a newly acquired property as quickly as expected or at all. Any substantial unanticipated delays or expenses could adversely affect the investment returns from these development or redevelopment projects and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock.. We may in the future develop medical facilities in geographic regions where we do not currently have a significant presence and where we do not possess the same level of familiarity, which could adversely affect our ability to develop such properties successfully or at all or to achieve expected performance.. We have relied, and in the future may rely, on the investments of our joint venture partners for the funding of our development and redevelopment projects. If our reputation in the healthcare real estate industry changes or the number of investors considering us as an attractive strategic partner is otherwise reduced, our ability to develop or redevelop properties could be adversely affected, which would limit our potential for growth.. 15. Table of Contents. If our investments in development and redevelopment projects do not yield anticipated returns for any reason, including those set forth above, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. We may not be successful in identifying and consummating suitable acquisitions or investment opportunities, which may impede our growth and negatively affect our results of operations.. Our ability to expand through acquisitions has been a component of our long-term growth strategy and has required us to identify suitable acquisition candidates or investment opportunities that meet our criteria and are compatible with our growth strategy. To the extent that we continue to make new acquisitions or investments, we may not be successful in identifying suitable properties or other assets that meet our acquisition criteria or in consummating acquisitions or investments on satisfactory terms or at all. Failure to identify or consummate acquisitions or investment opportunities will slow our growth.. To the extent that we acquire properties in the future, our ability to acquire such properties on attractive terms and successfully integrate and operate them may be constrained by the following factors:. <U+0095>    failure to finance an acquisition on attractive terms or at all;. <U+0095>    competition from other real estate investors with significant capital, including other publicly-traded REITs and institutional investment funds;. <U+0095>    competition from other potential acquirers may significantly increase the purchase price for an acquisition property, which could reduce our profitability;. <U+0095>    unsatisfactory results of our due diligence investigations or failure to meet other customary closing conditions;. <U+0095>    we may spend more than the time and amounts budgeted to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties; and. <U+0095>    we may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities such as liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by persons in respect of events transpiring or conditions existing before we acquired the properties and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties.. If any of these risks are realized, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. We may not be able to obtain additional capital to further our business objectives.. Our ability to develop, redevelop or acquire properties depends upon our ability to obtain capital. During the recent financial and economic crisis, the global economy, including the capital and credit markets, experienced a period of substantial turmoil and uncertainty, which restricted the availability of capital. A lack of capital may cause a decrease in the level of new investment activity by publicly traded real estate companies. Furthermore, a prolonged period in which we cannot effectively access the public equity or debt markets may result in heavier reliance on alternative financing sources to undertake new investments. An inability to obtain equity or debt capital on acceptable terms could delay or prevent us from acquiring, financing and completing desirable investments, and which could otherwise adversely affect our business. If any of these risks are realized, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. If we are unable to promptly re-let our properties on terms that are favorable to us, if at all, or we are required to undertake significant capital expenditures to attract new tenants, then our business and results of operations would be adversely affected.. A substantial number of our leases are on a multiple year basis. As of December 31, 2011, leases representing 15.5% of our net rentable square feet will expire in 2012, 9.5% in 2013 and 9.8% in 2014. These expirations would account for 16.3%, 9.3% and 10.3% of our annualized rent, respectively. Approximately 61.9% of the square feet of our properties and 61.3% of the number of our. 16. Table of Contents. properties are subject to certain restrictions. These restrictions include limits on our ability to re-let these properties to tenants not affiliated with the healthcare system that own the underlying property, rights of first offer on sales of the property and limits on the types of medical procedures that may be performed. In addition, in order to maintain occupancy, we have had to lower our rental rates to re-let certain spaces, and we may be required to do so again in the future, which could impede our growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to re-let space on terms that are favorable to us or at all. Further, due to the age of some of our properties, as well as the specialized nature of our tenants, we have been required to make significant capital expenditures to renovate or reconfigure space to attract new tenants and we may be required to do so in the future. If we are unable to promptly re-let our properties, if the rates upon such re-letting are significantly lower than expected, or if we are required to undertake significant capital expenditures in connection with re-letting units, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. Certain of our properties may not have efficient alternative uses.. Some of our properties, such as our ambulatory surgery centers, are specialized healthcare facilities. If we or our tenants terminate the leases for these properties or our tenants lose their regulatory authority to operate such properties, we may not be able to locate suitable replacement tenants to lease the properties for their specialized uses. Alternatively, we may be required to spend substantial amounts to adapt the properties to other uses. Any loss of revenues and/or additional capital expenditures occurring as a result may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock.. We face competition for the acquisition of medical facilities, which may impede our ability to make future acquisitions or may increase the cost of these acquisitions.. We compete with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities for acquisitions of medical facilities, including national, regional and local operators, acquirers and developers of healthcare real estate properties. The competition for medical facilities may significantly increase the price we must pay for medical facilities or other assets we seek to acquire and our competitors may succeed in acquiring those properties or assets themselves. In addition, our potential acquisition targets may find our competitors to be more attractive because they may have greater resources, may be willing to pay more for the properties or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. In particular, larger healthcare REITs may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment properties may increase. This competition may result in increased demand for these assets and therefore increased prices paid for them. Because of an increased interest in single-property acquisitions among tax-motivated individual purchasers, we may pay higher prices if we purchase single properties in comparison with portfolio acquisitions. If we pay higher prices for medical facilities or other assets, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. We may not be successful in integrating and operating acquired properties.. If we make acquisitions of medical office buildings and healthcare facilities in the future, we will be required to integrate them into our existing portfolio. The acquired properties may turn out to be less compatible with our growth strategy than originally anticipated, may cause disruptions in our operations or may divert management's attention away from day-to-day operations, any or all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock.. Our medical facilities, their associated hospitals and our tenants may be unable to compete successfully.. Our medical facilities and their associated hospitals often face competition from nearby hospitals and other medical facilities that provide comparable services. Some of those competing facilities are owned by governmental agencies and supported by tax revenues, and others are owned by nonprofit corporations and may be supported to a large extent by endowments and charitable contributions. These types of support are not available to our buildings.. Similarly, our tenants face competition from other medical practices in nearby hospitals and other healthcare facilities. Our tenants' failure to compete successfully with these other practices could adversely affect their ability to make rental payments, which could adversely affect our rental revenues. Further, from. 17. Table of Contents. time to time and for reasons beyond our control, referral sources, including physicians and managed care organizations, may change their lists of hospitals or physicians to which they refer patients. This could adversely affect our tenants' ability to make rental payments, which could adversely affect our rental revenues.. We depend upon its tenants to operate their businesses in a manner which generates revenue sufficient to allow them to meet their obligations to us, including their obligation to pay rent. Any reduction in rental revenues resulting from the inability of our medical office buildings and healthcare facilities, their associated hospitals and our tenants to compete successfully may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Uninsured losses or losses in excess of our insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition and our cash flow.. We maintain comprehensive liability, fire, flood, earthquake, wind (as deemed necessary or as required by our lenders), extended coverage and rental loss insurance for our properties with policy specifications, limits and deductibles customarily carried for similar properties. Certain types of losses, however, may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable, such as losses due to earthquakes, riots, acts of war or terrorism. Should an uninsured loss occur, we could lose both our investment in and anticipated profits and cash flow from a property. If any such loss is insured, we may be required to pay a significant deductible on any claim for recovery of such a loss prior to our insurer being obligated to reimburse us for the loss, or the amount of the loss may exceed our coverage for the loss. In addition, future lenders may require certain insurance coverage, and our failure to obtain such insurance could constitute a default under loan agreements. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. Joint investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance upon a co-venturer's financial condition.. We have co-invested with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures, co-tenancies and other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of a property, partnership, joint venture, co-tenancy or other entity. Therefore, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding that property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that our partners, co-tenants or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Additionally, our partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals, which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals. These investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner, co-tenant or co-venturer has full control over the partnership or joint venture. Consequently, actions by such partner, co-tenant or co-venturer might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in specific circumstances be liable for the actions of third-party partners, co-tenants or co-venturers. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. Our mortgage agreements and ground and air rights leases contain certain provisions that may limit our ability to sell certain of our medical office buildings and healthcare facilities.. In order to assign or transfer our rights and obligations under certain of our mortgage agreements, we generally must:. <U+0095>    obtain the consent of the lender;. <U+0095>    pay a fee equal to a fixed percentage of the outstanding loan balance; and. <U+0095>    pay any costs incurred by the lender in connection with any such assignment or transfer.. In addition, ground and air rights leases on certain of our properties contain restrictions on transfer such as limiting the assignment or subleasing of the facility only to practicing physicians or physicians in good standing with an affiliated hospital. These provisions of our mortgage agreements and ground and air rights leases may limit our ability to sell certain of our medical office buildings and healthcare facilities which, in turn, could adversely impact the price realized from any such sale. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. 18. Table of Contents. Thirty-four of our consolidated wholly-owned and joint venture properties are subject to ground or air rights leases that expose us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground or air rights leases.. We have 34 consolidated wholly-owned and joint venture properties that are subject to leasehold interests in the land or air underlying the buildings and we may acquire additional buildings in the future that are subject to similar ground or air rights leases. As of December 31, 2011, these 34 consolidated wholly-owned and joint venture properties represent 53.7% of our total net rentable square feet. As lessee under a ground or air rights lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination, or an earlier breach by us, of the ground lease, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock.. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with operating our properties may affect our results of operations.. Under various U.S. federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, owners and operators of real estate may be liable for the costs of investigating and remediating certain hazardous substances or other regulated materials affecting the property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous substances or materials. The presence of hazardous substances or materials, or the failure to properly remediate these substances, may adversely affect the owner's or operator's ability to lease, sell or rent the property or to borrow using the property as collateral. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances or other regulated materials may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such substances at a disposal or treatment facility, whether or not the facility is owned or operated by the person. Certain environmental laws impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials into the air and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with asbestos-containing materials.. Certain environmental laws also impose liability, without regard to knowledge or fault, for removal or remediation of hazardous substances or other regulated materials upon owners and operators of contaminated property even after they no longer own or operate the property. Moreover, the past or present owner or operator from which a release emanates may be liable for any personal injuries or property damages that may result from such releases, as well as any damages to natural resources that may arise from such releases. Certain environmental laws impose compliance obligations on owners and operators of real property with respect to the management of hazardous materials and other regulated substances. For example, environmental laws govern the management of asbestos-containing materials and lead-based paint. Failure to comply with these laws can result in penalties or other sanctions.. No assurances can be given that existing environmental studies with respect to any of our properties reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner or operator of our properties did not create any material environmental condition not known to us, or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any one or more of our properties. There also exists the risk that material environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns may have arisen after the review was completed or may arise in the future. Finally, future laws, ordinances or regulations and future interpretations of existing laws, ordinances or regulations may impose additional material environmental liability.. The realization of any or all of these risks may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make distributions to our stockholders, and the trading price of our stock.. 19. Table of Contents. Costs associated with complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 may result in unanticipated expenses.. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA, all places of public accommodation are required to meet certain U.S. federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. A number of additional U.S. federal, state and local laws may also require modifications to our properties, or restrict certain further renovations of the properties, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants and/or an order to correct any non-complying feature, which could result in substantial capital expenditures. We have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance and we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. If one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ADA or other related legislation, then we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the facility into compliance. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA or other related legislation, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. The bankruptcy or insolvency of our tenants under our leases could seriously harm our operating results and financial condition.. We receive a substantial amount of our income as rent payments under leases of space in our properties. We have no control over the success or failure of our tenants' businesses and, at any time, any of our tenants may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its financial condition. As a result, our tenants may delay lease commencement or renewal, fail to make rent payments when due, or declare bankruptcy. Any leasing delays, lessee failures to make rent payments when due, or tenant bankruptcies could result in the termination of a tenant's lease and, particularly in the case of a large tenant, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. If tenants are unable to comply with the terms of our leases, we may be forced to modify lease terms in ways that are unfavorable to us. Alternatively, the failure of a tenant to perform under a lease or to extend a lease upon expiration of its term could require us to declare a default, repossess the property, find a suitable replacement tenant, operate the property, or sell the property. There is no assurance that we will be able to lease the property on substantially equivalent or better terms than the prior lease, or at all. We may not be able to find another tenant, successfully reposition the property for other uses, successfully operate the property, or sell the property on terms that are favorable to us.. If any lease expires or is terminated, we will be responsible for all of the operating expenses for that vacant space until it is re-let. If we experiences high levels of vacant space, our operating expenses may increase significantly. Any significant increase in our operating costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock.. Any bankruptcy filings by or relating to one of our tenants could bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from that lessee or seize its property, unless we receive an order permitting us to do so from the bankruptcy court, which we may be unable to obtain. A tenant bankruptcy could also delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases and could ultimately preclude full collection of these sums. If a tenant assumes the lease while in bankruptcy, all pre-bankruptcy balances due under the lease must be paid to us in full. However, if a tenant rejects the lease while in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for pre-petition damages. Any unsecured claim we hold may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage paid to all other holders of unsecured claims. It is possible that we may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims we hold, if any, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock. Furthermore, dealing with a tenant bankruptcy or other default may divert management's attention and cause us to incur substantial legal and other costs.. 20. Table of Contents. Risks Related to our Design-Build and Development Segment. Continuing adverse economic conditions could cause our clients to delay, curtail or cancel proposed or existing projects, which could result in a decrease in demand for our services.. The demand for our services has been, and will likely continue to be, cyclical in nature and vulnerable to general downturns in the U.S. economy. Adverse economic conditions may decrease our clients' willingness or ability to make capital expenditures or otherwise reduce their spending to purchase our services, which could result in reduced revenues or margins for our business. Many of our clients finance their projects through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. Furthermore, our clients may be affected by economic downturns that decrease the need for their services or the profitability of their services, which could result in a decrease of their cash flow from operations. A reduction in our clients' cash flow from operations and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing could cause our clients to delay, curtail or cancel proposed or existing projects, which could result in a decrease in demand for our services. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. Our results of operations depend upon the award of new design-build contracts and the nature and timing of those awards.. Our design-build revenues are derived primarily from contracts awarded on a project-by-project basis. Generally, it is very difficult to predict whether and when we will be awarded a new contract since many potential contracts involve a lengthy and complex bidding and selection process that may be affected by a number of factors, including changes in existing or assumed market conditions, financing arrangements, governmental approvals and environmental matters. Because our design-build revenues are derived primarily from these contracts, our results of operations and cash flows can fluctuate materially from period to period depending on the timing of contract awards.. In addition, adverse economic conditions could alter the overall mix of services that our clients seek to purchase, and increased competition during a period of economic decline could result in we accepting contract terms that are less favorable to we than it might otherwise be able to negotiate. Changes in our mix of services or a less favorable contracting environment may cause our revenues and margins to decline. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. If we experience delays and/or defaults in client payments, we could be unable to recover all expenditures.. Because of the nature of our design-build contracts, we may at times commit our financial resources to projects prior to receiving payments from the client in amounts sufficient to cover expenditures on the projects as they are incurred. Delays in client payments may require us to make a working capital investment. If a client defaults in making payments on a project in which we have devoted significant financial resources, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. This risk can be exacerbated as a result of a downturn in economic conditions, including recent developments in the economy and capital markets.. We may experience reduced profits or, in some cases, losses under our guaranteed maximum price contracts if costs increase above our estimates.. Most of our design-build contracts are currently negotiated guaranteed maximum price or fixed price contracts, giving our clients a clear understanding of the project's costs but also locking us in so that we bear a significant portion or all of the risk for cost overruns. Under these guaranteed maximum price or fixed price contracts, contract prices payable by clients are established in part on cost and scheduling estimates which are based on a number of assumptions, including assumptions about future economic conditions, prices and availability of labor, equipment and materials, and other exigencies. If these estimates prove inaccurate, or we encounter other unanticipated difficulties with respect to projects under guaranteed maximum price or fixed price contracts (such as errors, omissions or other deficiencies in the components of projects designed by or on behalf of us, problems with new technologies, difficulties in obtaining permits or approvals, adverse weather, unknown or unforeseen conditions, labor actions or disputes, changes in legal requirements, unanticipated decisions, interpretations or actions by governmental authorities having jurisdiction over our projects, fire or other casualties, terrorist or similar acts, unanticipated difficulty or delay in obtaining materials or equipment, unanticipated increase in the cost of materials or equipment, failures or defaults of suppliers or subcontractors to perform, or other causes within. 21. Table of Contents. or beyond the control of we which delay the performance or completion of a project or increase our cost of performing the services and work to complete the project), cost overruns may occur, and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project. The existence or impact of these and other items may not be or become known until the end of a project which may negatively affect our cash flows and results of operations. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. The nature of our design-build and development business creates exposure to potential liabilities and disputes which may reduce our profits.. We engage in engineering, architecture, construction and other services where design, construction or systems failures can result in substantial injury or damage to clients and/or third parties. In addition, the nature of our business results in clients, subcontractors, vendors, suppliers and governmental authorities occasionally asserting claims against us for damages or losses for which they believe we are liable, including damages and/or losses (including consequential damages or losses) arising from allegations of: (1) defective, nonconforming, legally noncompliant or otherwise deficient design, materials, equipment or workmanship; (2) late performance, completion or delivery of all or any portion of a project; (3) bodily injury, sickness, disease or death; (4) injury to or destruction of property; (5) failure to design or perform work in accordance with applicable laws, statutes, ordinances, and regulations of any governmental authority; (6) violations of the Federal \"Occupational Safety and Health Act\", or any other laws, ordinances, rules regulations or orders of any Federal, State or local public authority having jurisdiction for the safety of persons or property, including but not limited to any Fire Department and Board of Health; (7) violations or infringements of any trademark, copyright or patent, or any unfair competition, or infringement of any other tangible or intangible personal or property rights; and (8) failure to pay parties providing services, labor, materials, equipment, supplies and similar items to projects.. Many of our design-build contracts do not limit our liability for damages or losses. These claims often arise in the normal course of our business, and may be asserted with respect to projects completed and/or past occurrences. When it is determined that we have liability, such liability may not be covered by insurance or, if covered, the dollar amount of the liability may exceed our policy limits. Any liability not covered by insurance, in excess of insurance limits or, if covered by insurance but subject to a high deductible, could result in significant loss, which could reduce profits and cash available for operations. Furthermore, claims asserting liability for these and other matters, whether for projects previously completed or projects to be completed in the future, may not be asserted or otherwise become known until a later date. Performance problems and/or liability claims for existing or future projects could adversely impact our reputation within its industry and among its client base, making it more difficult to obtain future projects. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our business may affect our results of operation.. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations, including those concerning:. <U+0095>    generation, storage, handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous material and wastes;. <U+0095>    emissions into the air;. <U+0095>    discharges into waterways; and. <U+0095>    health and safety.. Our projects often involve highly regulated materials, including hazardous wastes. Environmental laws and regulations generally impose limitations and standards for regulated materials and require us to obtain permits and comply with various other requirements. The improper characterization, handling, or disposal of regulated materials or any other failure by us to comply with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations or associated environmental permits could subject us to the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations, or the issuance of injunctions that could restrict or prevent our ability to operate its business and complete contracted projects.. 22. Table of Contents. In addition, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (\"CERCLA\"), and comparable state laws, we may be required to investigate and remediate regulated materials. CERCLA and the comparable state laws typically impose liability without regard to whether a company knew of or caused the release, and liability for the entire cost of clean-up can be imposed upon any responsible party.. The environmental, workplace, employment and health and safety laws and regulations, among others, to which we are subject to are complex, change frequently and could become more stringent in the future. It is impossible to predict the effect that any future changes to these laws and regulations could have on us. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make distributions to our stockholders, and the trading price of our stock.. Risks Related to the Healthcare Industry. Future changes to healthcare laws, implementation of healthcare legislation and adverse trends in healthcare provider operations may negatively affect our lease revenues and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. The healthcare industry is currently experiencing:. <U+0095>    changes in the demand for and methods of delivering healthcare services;. <U+0095>    changes in third party reimbursement policies;. <U+0095>    substantial competition for patients among healthcare providers;. <U+0095>    continued pressure by private and government payors to reduce payments to providers of services; and. <U+0095>    increased scrutiny of billing, referral and other practices by U.S. federal and state authorities.. These factors may adversely affect the economic performance of some or all of our tenants and, in turn, our lease revenues, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock.. In addition, on March 23, 2010, the U.S. Congress enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (\"PPACA\") that was intended to have a significant impact on the delivery and reimbursement of healthcare items and services. Currently, PPACA is the subject of repeal initiatives in the U.S. Congress. In addition, PPACA is being challenged through lawsuits pending in several U.S. courts. See \"Business  -  Regulation.\" While any preliminary decisions in these lawsuits are subject to appeal and while it is unclear whether any provisions of PPACA will be amended or repealed due to current legislative initiatives, the uncertainty concerning whether and when any or all of the provisions of PPACA will be implemented, or if implemented, their impact on the healthcare delivery system as a whole, make it difficult to predict the corresponding impact on our tenants. The implementation of PPACA or future healthcare legislation may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock.. Reductions in reimbursement from third party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, could adversely affect the profitability of our tenants and hinder their ability to make rent payments to us.. Sources of revenue for our tenants may include the U.S. federal Medicare program, state Medicaid programs, private insurance carriers and health maintenance organizations, among others. Declining reimbursement from government and private payors has increased pressure on healthcare providers to continue to control or reduce costs. Additional reductions in reimbursement may result from the implementation of PPACA or from future healthcare reform legislation enacted by the U.S. Congress or from regulations issued by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. Similar efforts by private payors to reduce reimbursement in order to attempt to reduce healthcare costs will likely continue. Budget reduction measures by state governments are likely to result in further reductions in reimbursement from Medicaid and other state funded healthcare programs. In addition, the failure of our tenants to comply with various laws and regulations could jeopardize their ability to continue participating in Medicare, Medicaid and other government payment programs. A reduction in reimbursements to our tenants from third party payors for any reason, including without limitation exclusion from participation in any government payor program, could adversely affect our tenants' ability to make rent payments to us, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock.. 23. Table of Contents. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated, and new laws or regulations, changes to existing laws or regulations, loss of licensure or failure to obtain licensure could result in the inability of our tenants to make rent payments to us.. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated by U.S. federal, state and local governmental bodies. Our tenants generally will be subject to laws and regulations covering, among other things, licensure, certification for participation in government programs and relationships with physicians and other referral sources, and the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information. Also, PPACA included amendments to laws that may apply to our tenants which enhance the ability of the government to investigate, enforce and impose fines and penalties for, violations of these laws. This enhanced government authority to enforce these laws and the imposition of any resulting fines or penalties upon one of our tenants or associated hospitals could jeopardize that tenant's ability to operate or to make rent payments or affect the level of occupancy in our medical office buildings or healthcare facilities associated with that hospital, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock.. In addition, some state and local laws regulate new healthcare services and the expansion of existing healthcare services, including the addition of new beds or services, the acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction of healthcare related facilities, by requiring a certificate of need or other comparable approvals. These approvals are issued by the applicable state health planning agency only after that agency makes a determination that a need exists in a particular area for a particular service, equipment or facility. New laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations or changes in the interpretation of such laws or regulations could negatively affect the financial condition of our tenants. These changes, in some cases, could apply retroactively. The enactment, timing or effect of legislative or regulatory changes cannot be predicted. In addition, certain of our medical office buildings and healthcare facilities and their tenants may require licenses or certificates of need to operate. Failure to obtain a license or certificate of need, or loss of a required license would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the tenant. These events could adversely affect our tenants' ability to make rent payments to us, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock.. Privacy and security regulations issued pursuant to Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, and subsequent amendments thereto included in the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (as amended, \"HIPAA\"), extensively regulate the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information. These laws and regulations: (i) permit the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to impose civil monetary penalties; (ii) allow state attorneys general to bring civil actions for HIPAA violations; and (iii) require the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to conduct audits of covered entities, such as healthcare providers, to determine their compliance with HIPAA. The cost of complying with these requirements or the imposition of penalties for HIPAA violations could adversely affect the ability of a tenant to make rent payments to us, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock.. Our tenants are subject to the Stark Law and fraud and abuse laws, the violation of which by a tenant may jeopardize the tenant's ability to make rent payments to us.. There are various federal and state laws prohibiting fraudulent and abusive business practices by healthcare providers who participate in, receive payments from or are in a position to make referrals in connection with government healthcare programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Our lease arrangements with certain tenants may also be subject to the Stark Law and fraud and abuse laws, to the extent these lease arrangements create indirect financial relationships between the tenants and us that are subject to these laws and regulations.. 24. Table of Contents. These laws that may apply to our tenants include:. <U+0095>    the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral of Medicare and Medicaid patients;. <U+0095>    the Stark Law, which, subject to specific exceptions, restricts physicians who have financial relationships with healthcare providers from making referrals for specifically designated health services for which payment may be made under Medicare or Medicaid programs to an entity with which the physician, or an immediate family member, has a financial relationship;. <U+0095>    the False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting false or fraudulent claims for payment to the federal government, including under the Medicare and Medicaid programs; and. <U+0095>    the Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which authorizes the Department of Health and Human Services to impose monetary penalties for certain fraudulent acts.. Each of these laws includes criminal and/or civil penalties for violations that range from punitive sanctions, damage assessments, penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid payments and/or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Additionally, certain laws, such as the False Claims Act, allow for individuals to bring whistleblower actions on behalf of the government for violations thereof. PPACA included amendments to each of these laws which enhance the ability of the government to investigate, enforce, and impose fines and penalties for violation of these laws. The enhanced government authority to enforce these laws and the imposition of any resulting penalties upon one of our tenants or associated hospitals could jeopardize that tenant's ability to operate or to make rent payments or affect the level of occupancy in our medical office buildings or healthcare facilities associated with that hospital, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock.. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties.. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property.. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. In acquiring a property, we may agree to transfer restrictions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These transfer restrictions would impede our ability to sell a property even if we deem it necessary or appropriate. These facts and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of its properties may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock.. Any investments in unimproved real property may take significantly longer to yield income-producing returns, if at all, and may result in additional costs to us to comply with re-zoning restrictions or environmental regulations.. We may invest in unimproved real property. Unimproved properties generally take longer to yield income-producing returns based on the typical time required for development. Any development of unimproved real property may also expose us to the risks and uncertainties associated with re-zoning the land for a higher use or development and environmental concerns of governmental entities and/or. 25. Table of Contents. community groups. Any unsuccessful investments or delays in realizing an income-producing return or increased costs to develop unimproved real property could restrict our ability to earn its targeted rate of return on an investment or adversely affect our ability to pay operating expenses, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock.. Risks Related to Debt Financings. Required payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave we with insufficient cash to operate our properties or to pay the distributions currently contemplated or necessary to qualify as a REIT and may expose us to the risk of default under our debt obligations.. At December 31, 2011, we have approximately $453.6 million of outstanding indebtedness, of which $277.8 million is mortgage debt that is secured by performing properties, $95.0 million is outstanding under our Credit Facility, and $80.8 million is outstanding under our Term Loan Facility. Approximately $16.4 million and $11.6 million of our outstanding indebtedness will mature in 2012 and 2013, respectively. Additionally, we will repay approximately $5.2 million and $6.0 million in principal amortization in 2012 and 2013, respectively. If we engage in future development or redevelopment projects or acquisitions, we expect to incur additional debt in connection with such projects and acquisitions, which may include borrowings under our Credit Facility. Additionally, we do not anticipate that our internally generated cash flow will be adequate to repay our existing indebtedness upon maturity and, therefore, we expect to repay our indebtedness through our Credit Facility, refinancing, and future offerings of equity and/or debt.. If we are required to utilize our Credit Facility for purposes other than development, redevelopment and acquisition activities, this will reduce the amount available for development and redevelopment projects and acquisitions and could slow our growth. Therefore, our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements could have adverse consequences, including the following:. <U+0095>    our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments;. <U+0095>    we may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms, including to make acquisitions;. <U+0095>    we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our original indebtedness;. <U+0095>    because a portion of our debt bears interest at variable rates, an increase in interest rates could materially increase our interest expense;. <U+0095>    we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms;. <U+0095>    after debt service, the amount available for distributions to our stockholders is reduced;. <U+0095>    our debt level could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt;. <U+0095>    we may experience increased vulnerability to economic and industry downturns, reducing our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions;. <U+0095>    we may default on our obligations and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our properties that secure their loans and receive an assignment of rents and leases;. <U+0095>    we may violate financial covenants which would cause a default on our obligations;. <U+0095>    we may inadvertently violate non-financial restrictive covenants in our loan documents, such as covenants that require us to maintain the existence of entities, maintain insurance policies and provide financial statements, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate our debt obligations; and. <U+0095>    we may default under any one of our mortgage loans with cross-default or cross-collateralization provisions that could result in default on other indebtedness or result in the foreclosures of other properties.. The realization of any or all of these risks may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock.. 26. Table of Contents. As a result of recent market events, including the contraction among and failure of certain lenders, it may be more difficult for us to secure financing.. Our results of operations may be materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and the economy generally. Over the past several years, uncertainty over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, unemployment, the availability and cost of credit, the mortgage market and a real estate market have contributed to increased volatility in access to and cost of capital.. Since 2008, housing market conditions have resulted in significant asset write-downs by financial institutions, which have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, merge with other institutions and, in some cases, to fail. We rely on the availability of financing to execute our business strategy. Institutions from which we may seek to obtain financing may have owned or financed residential mortgage loans, real estate-related securities and real estate loans which have declined in value and caused losses as a result of the recent downturn. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. If these conditions persist, these institutions may become insolvent. As a result of recent market events, it may be more difficult for us to secure financing as there are fewer institutional lenders and those remaining lenders have tightened their lending standards.. As a result of these events, it may be more difficult for us to obtain financing on attractive terms, or at all, and our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. Our ability to pay distributions is dependent on a number of factors and is not assured, and our distributions to stockholders may decline at any time.. We are prevented by the terms of the merger agreement from paying any additional distributions on our shares of common stock prior to closing. If we do make any future distributions, our ability to make such distributions depends upon a variety of factors, including efficient management of our properties and the successful implementation by us of a variety of our growth initiatives, and may be adversely affected by the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All distributions will be made at the discretion of the Board of Directors and depend on our earnings, our financial condition, the REIT distribution requirements and other factors that the Board of Directors may consider from time to time. We cannot assure you that the level of our distributions will increase over time or that we will be able to maintain our future distributions at levels that equal or exceed our historical distributions. We may be required to fund future distributions either from borrowings under our Credit Facility, with the proceeds from equity offerings, which could be dilutive, or from property sales, which could be at a loss, or reduce such distributions. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. Our outstanding debt obligations prohibit us from redeeming the Series A Preferred Stock.. We are, and may in the future become, party to agreements and instruments, which, among other things, restrict or prevent the payment of dividends on or the redemption of our classes and series of capital stock. Our Credit Facility prohibits us from redeeming or otherwise repurchasing any shares of our stock, including the Series A Preferred Stock, during the term of the Credit Facility. This restriction may prohibit us from redeeming the outstanding Series A Preferred Stock even if we believe to do so would be in the best interests of our stockholders. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. Our organizational documents contain no limitations on the amount of debt we may incur.. Our organizational documents contain no limitations on the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. We could alter the balance between our total outstanding indebtedness and the value of our wholly-owned properties at any time. If we becomes more highly leveraged, the resulting increase in debt service could adversely affect our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness and to pay our anticipated distributions and/or the distributions required to qualify as a REIT, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock.. 27. Table of Contents. Increases in interest rates may increase our interest expense and adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and make distributions to our stockholders.. As of December 31, 2011, we have approximately $453.6 million of outstanding indebtedness, of which approximately $215.4 million, or 47.5%, is subject to variable interest rates (excluding debt subject to variable to fixed interest rate swap agreements). This variable rate debt had a weighted average interest rate of approximately 3.6% per year as of December 31, 2011. Increases in interest rates on this variable rate debt would increase our interest expense, which could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to pay distributions. For example, if market rates of interest on this variable rate debt increased by 100 basis points, the increase in interest expense would decrease future earnings and cash flows by approximately $2.2 million annually. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations.. In certain cases, we may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements. Hedging involves risks, such as the risk that the counterparty may fail to honor its obligations under an arrangement, that the arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that a court could rule that such an agreement is not legally enforceable. In addition, we may be limited in the type and amount of hedging transactions we may use in the future by our need to satisfy the REIT income tests under the Code. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock.. Our Credit Facility and our Term Loan Facility contain covenants that could limit our operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Our Credit Facility and our Term Loan Facility contain financial and operating covenants, including tangible net worth requirements, fixed charge coverage and debt ratios and other limitations on our ability to make distributions or other payments to our stockholders (other than those required by the Code), sell all or substantially all of our assets and engage in mergers, consolidations and certain acquisitions.. The Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facility contain customary terms and conditions for credit facilities of this type including, but not limited to: (1) affirmative covenants relating to our corporate structure and ownership, maintenance of insurance, compliance with environmental laws and preparation of environmental reports, maintenance of our REIT qualification and listing on the New York Stock Exchange (the \"NYSE\"), and (2) negative covenants relating to restrictions on redemptions of preferred stock, liens, indebtedness, certain investments (including loans and certain advances), mergers and other fundamental changes, sales and other dispositions of property or assets and transactions with affiliates. The Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facility have financial covenants to be met by us at all times including a maximum total leverage ratio (65% through March 31, 2013, and 60% thereafter), maximum secured recourse indebtedness ratio, excluding the indebtedness under the Credit Facility (15%), minimum fixed charge coverage ratio (1.35 to 1.00 through March 31, 2012, and 1.50 to 1.00 thereafter), minimum consolidated tangible net worth ($237.1 million plus 80% of the net proceeds of equity issuances issued after the closing date of March 1, 2011) and minimum net operating income ratio from properties secured under the Credit Facility to Credit Facility interest expense (1.50 to 1.00).. These covenants may restrict our ability to engage in transactions that we believe would otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in the Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facility could result in a default. This could cause one or more of our lenders to accelerate the timing of payments and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock.. If lenders under our Credit Facility fail to meet their funding commitments, our financial position would be negatively impacted.. Access to external capital on favorable terms is critical to our success in growing and maintaining its portfolio. If financial institutions within our Credit Facility were unwilling or unable to meet their respective funding commitments to us, any such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock.. 28. Table of Contents. Risks Related to our Organization and Structure. Our business could be harmed if key personnel terminate their employment with us.. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued services of members of our senior management team. In addition, our ability to continue to acquire and develop properties depends on the significant relationships our senior management team has developed. There is no guarantee that any of them will remain employed by us. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our officers. The loss of services of one or more members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock.. 29. Table of Contents. We may pursue less vigorous enforcement of terms of contribution and other agreements because of conflicts of interest with certain of our directors and officers.. Mr. Charles M. Handy, our Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President and Secretary, and other members of our management team and board of directors, have direct or indirect ownership interests in certain properties contributed to the Operating Partnership at the initial public offering. We, under the agreements relating to the contribution of such interests, are entitled to indemnification and damages in the event of breaches of representations or warranties made by the contributors. We may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under these agreements because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationships with the individual party to these agreements. In connection with the acquisition of MEA Holdings, Inc. Holdings, Inc., we entered into various agreements with MEA Holdings, Inc., including the merger agreement, pursuant to which we are entitled to indemnification and damages in the event of breaches of representations and warranties made by MEA Holdings, Inc. Because certain other key employees and personnel were also former owners, officers and directors of MEA Holdings, Inc., we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under these agreements. In addition, we are party to an employment agreement with Mr. Handy, which provide for additional severance following termination of employment if we elect to subject the executive officer to certain non-competition, confidentiality and non-solicitation provisions. Although their employment agreements require that they devote substantially all of their full business time and attention to us, if the executive officer forgoes the additional severance, he will not be subject to such non-competition provisions, which would allow him to compete with us. None of these agreements were negotiated on an arm's-length basis. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. Conflicts of interest could arise as a result of our UPREIT structure.. Conflicts of interest could arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and the Operating Partnership or any partner thereof, on the other. Our directors and officers have duties to us under applicable Maryland law in connection with their management of us. At the same time, we, through our wholly-owned subsidiary, have fiduciary duties, as a general partner, to the Operating Partnership and to the limited partners under Delaware law in connection with the management of the Operating Partnership. Our duties, through our wholly-owned subsidiary, as a general partner to the Operating Partnership and its partners may come into conflict with the duties of our directors and officers. The partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership does not require us to resolve such conflicts in favor of either our stockholders or the limited partners in the Operating Partnership.. Unless otherwise provided for in the relevant partnership agreement, Delaware law generally requires a general partner of a Delaware limited partnership to adhere to fiduciary duty standards under which it owes its limited partners the highest duties of good faith, fairness and loyalty and which generally prohibit such general partner from taking any action or engaging in any transaction as to which it has a conflict of interest.. Additionally, the partnership agreement expressly limits our liability by providing that neither we, nor our wholly-owned Maryland business trust subsidiary, as the general partner of the Operating Partnership, nor any of we or its trustees, directors or officers, will be liable or accountable in damages to the Operating Partnership, the limited partners or assignees for errors in judgment, mistakes of fact or law or for any act or omission if the general partner or such trustee, director or officer, acted in good faith. In addition, the Operating Partnership is required to indemnify us, our affiliates and each of our respective trustees, officers, directors, employees and agents to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities (whether joint or several), expenses (including, without limitation, attorneys' fees and other legal fees and expenses), judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts arising from any and all claims, demands, actions, suits or proceedings, civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, that relate to the operations of the Operating Partnership, provided that the Operating. 30. Table of Contents. Partnership will not indemnify any such person for (1) willful misconduct or a knowing violation of the law, (2) any transaction for which such person received an improper personal benefit in violation or breach of any provision of the partnership agreement, or (3) in the case of a criminal proceeding, the person had reasonable cause to believe the act or omission was unlawful.. The provisions of Delaware law that allow the common law fiduciary duties of a general partner to be modified by a partnership agreement have not been resolved in a court of law, and we have not obtained an opinion of counsel covering the provisions set forth in the partnership agreement that purport to waive or restrict our fiduciary duties that would be in effect under common law were it not for the partnership agreement. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. Certain provisions of our organizational documents, including the stock ownership limit imposed by our charter, could prevent or delay a change in control transaction.. Our charter, subject to certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT and to limit any person to actual or constructive ownership of (1) 7.75% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding common stock, (2) 7.75% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding Series A Preferred Stock or (3) 7.75% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding capital stock. The Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt additional persons from the ownership limit. However, the Board of Directors may not grant an exemption from the ownership limit to any proposed transferee whose ownership could jeopardize our qualification as a REIT. These restrictions on ownership will not apply if the Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in our best interests to attempt to qualify, or to continue to qualify, as a REIT. The ownership limit may delay or impede a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock, or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. Certain provisions of Maryland law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us.. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control of us that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in their best interests, including:. <U+0095>    \"business combination\" provisions that, subject to certain limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an \"interested stockholder\" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter impose special minimum price provisions and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and. <U+0095>    \"control share\" provisions that provide that \"control shares\" of us (defined as shares which when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of \"control shares\") have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.. These provisions of the MGCL relating to business combinations do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by a board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Pursuant to the statute, the Board of Directors has by resolution exempted the Company Merger from the \"business combination\" provisions discussed above.. In addition, the Board of Directors has exempted Mr. Cogdell, his affiliates and associates and all persons acting in concert with the foregoing, and Mr. Spencer, his affiliates and associates and all persons acting in concert with the foregoing, from these provisions of the MGCL and, consequently, the five-year prohibition and the supermajority vote requirements will not apply to business combinations between us. 31. Table of Contents. and these persons. As a result, these persons may be able to enter into business combinations with us that may not be in the best interests of our stockholders without compliance by us with the supermajority vote requirements and the other provisions of the statute. In addition, our by-laws contain a provision exempting from the provisions of the MGCL relating to control share acquisitions any and all acquisitions by any person of our common stock. There can be no assurance that such provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future.. Additionally, Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL permits the Board of Directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to take certain actions that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control of us that might involve a premium to the market price of our common stock or otherwise be in our stockholders' best interests. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. The Board of Directors has the power to cause us to issue additional shares of our stock and the general partner has the power to issue additional OP units without stockholder approval.. Our charter authorizes the Board of Directors to cause us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock, and to amend our charter to increase the aggregate number of authorized shares or the authorized number of shares of any class or series without stockholder approval. The general partner will be given the authority to issue additional OP units or preferred units. In addition, the Board of Directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. The Board of Directors could cause us to issue additional shares of our common stock or Series A Preferred Stock, or establish an additional series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or other transaction that might involve a premium price for our common stock, or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action to recover money damages from our directors and officers are limited.. Our charter eliminates our directors' and officers' liability to we and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from actual receipt of an improper benefit in money, property or services or active and deliberate dishonesty established by a final judgment and which is material to the cause of action. Our charter authorizes us, and our bylaws require us, to indemnify our directors and officers for liability resulting from actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. You will have limited ability as a stockholder to prevent us from making any changes to we policies that you believe could harm our business, prospects, operating results or share price.. The Board of Directors will adopt policies with respect to certain activities, such as investments, dispositions, financing, lending, our equity capital, conflicts of interest and reporting. These policies may be amended or revised from time to time at the discretion of the Board of Directors without a vote of our stockholders. This means that our stockholders will have limited control over changes in our policies. Such changes in our policies intended to improve, expand or diversify our business may not have the anticipated effects and consequently may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock.. To the extent our distributions represent a return of capital for U.S. federal income tax purposes you could recognize an increased capital gain upon a subsequent sale by you of our common stock or preferred stock.. 32. Table of Contents. Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits and not treated by us as a dividend will not be taxable to a U.S. stockholder to the extent those distributions do not exceed the stockholder's adjusted tax basis in its common stock, but instead will constitute a return of capital and will reduce the stockholder's adjusted tax basis in its common stock. If distributions result in a reduction of a stockholder's adjusted basis in such holder's common stock, subsequent dispositions of such holder's common stock potentially will result in recognition of an increased capital gain or reduced capital loss due to the reduction in such adjusted basis.. Risks Related to Qualification and Operation as a REIT. Our failure to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us.. We intend to operate in a manner that will allow us to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the Code. We have not requested and do not plan to request a ruling from the IRS that we qualify as a REIT, and the statements in our prospectus and other filings are not binding on the IRS or any court. If we fail to qualify or lose our qualification as a REIT, we will face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders for each of the years involved because:. <U+0095>    we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates;. <U+0095>    we also could be subject to the U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and. <U+0095>    unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following a year during which we were disqualified.. In addition, if we lose our qualification as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to stockholders, and all distributions to our stockholders will be subject to tax as regular corporate dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. This means that our U.S. individual stockholders would be taxed on our dividends at a maximum U.S. federal income tax rate of 15% (through 2012), and our corporate stockholders generally would be entitled to the dividends received deduction with respect to such dividends, subject, in each case, to applicable limitations under the Code.. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions and regulations promulgated thereunder for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable U.S. Treasury Department regulations, or Treasury Regulations, that have been promulgated under the Code is greater in the case of a REIT that, like us, holds its assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of requirements, including requirements regarding the composition of our assets and sources of our gross income. Also, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our net taxable income, excluding capital gains.. As a result of these factors, our loss of our qualification as a REIT also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital. Also, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. To maintain its REIT qualification, we may be forced to borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions.. To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our net taxable income each year, excluding net capital gains, and we will be subject to regular corporate income taxes to the extent that we distributes less than 100% of our net taxable income each year. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. To qualify as a REIT and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis, or possibly on a long-term basis, to meet the REIT distribution requirements even if the then prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These borrowing needs could result from, among other things, a difference in timing. 33. Table of Contents. between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt amortization payments. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for reduced tax rates.. The maximum tax rate for dividends payable by domestic corporations to individual U.S. stockholders is 15% (through 2012). Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause stockholders who are individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock.. In addition, the relative attractiveness of real estate in general may be adversely affected by the favorable tax treatment given to corporate dividends, which could negatively affect the value of our properties.. Possible legislative or other actions affecting REITs could adversely affect us and our stockholders.. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department. Changes to tax laws (which changes may have retroactive application) could adversely affect us or our stockholders. We cannot predict whether, when, in what forms, or with what effective dates, the tax laws applicable to we or our stockholders will be changed.. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities.. To qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego attractive business or investment opportunities. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may adversely affect our ability to operate solely to maximize profits.. We will pay some taxes.. Even if we qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay some U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. In addition, our TRSs are fully taxable corporations that will be subject to taxes on their income and the TRSs may be limited in their ability to deduct interest payments made to us or the Operating Partnership. We also will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain amounts if the economic arrangements among our tenants, our TRSs and us are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties or if we receive payments for inventory or property held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. To the extent that we or our TRSs are required to pay U.S. federal, state or local taxes, we will have less cash available for distribution to our stockholders. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our stock may be materially and adversely affected.. The ability of the Board of Directors to revoke our REIT election without stockholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our stockholders.. Our charter provides that the Board of Directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interests to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to qualify as a REIT, we would become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income and we would no longer be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our stockholders, which may have adverse consequences on the total return to our stockholders.. Our ability to invest in TRSs is limited by our qualification as a REIT, and accordingly may limit our ability to grow the business of the Design-Build and Development segment.. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, no more than 25% of the value of our assets may consist of securities of one or more TRSs. We have jointly elected with TRS Holdings and its subsidiaries to treat such entities as TRSs. Accordingly, our ability to grow and expand the business and of TRS Holdings and its subsidiaries, absent a corresponding increase in the value of our real estate assets, will be limited by our need to continue to meet the applicable TRS limitation which could adversely affect returns to its stockholders.. 34. Table of Contents. If the aggregate value of the securities we own in its TRSs were determined to be in excess of 25% of the value of its total assets, we could fail to qualify as a REIT or be subject to a penalty tax and forced to dispose of TRS securities.. For us to continue to qualify as a REIT, the aggregate value of all securities that we hold in our TRSs may not exceed 25% of the value of its total assets. The value of our TRS securities and our real estate assets is based on determinations of fair market value which are not subject to precise determination. We will not lose our qualification as a REIT if we were to fail the TRS limitation at the end of a quarter because of a discrepancy between the value of its TRSs and its other investments unless such discrepancy exists after the acquisition of TRS securities and is wholly or partially the result of such acquisition (including as a result of an increased investment in existing TRSs, either directly, or by way of a limited partner of the operating partnership exercising an exchange right, or we raising additional capital and contributing such capital to its operating partnership). If we were to fail to satisfy the TRS limitation at the end of a particular quarter and we were considered to have acquired TRS securities during such quarter, we would fail to qualify as a REIT unless we cured such failure by disposing of TRS securities or otherwise coming into compliance with the TRS limitation within 30 days after the close of such quarter. Based on such rules and our determination of the fair market value of our assets and the securities of our TRSs, we believe that we have satisfied and will continue to satisfy the TRS limitation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, as the fair market value of our TRS securities and real estate assets cannot be determined with absolute certainty, and we do not control when a limited partner of our operating partnership will exercise their redemption right, no assurance can be given that the IRS will not successfully challenge the valuations of our assets or that we have met and will continue to meet the TRS limitation. In addition, if the value of our real estate assets were to decrease, our ability to own TRS securities or other assets not qualifying as real estate assets will be limited and we could be forced to dispose of our TRS securities or such other assets in order to comply with REIT requirements.. If the IRS were to successfully challenge our valuation of certain of its subsidiaries, we may fail to qualify as a REIT.. While we believe we have properly valued the securities we holds in its TRSs, there is no guarantee that the IRS would agree with such valuation or that a court would not agree with such determination by the IRS. In the event we have improperly valued the securities we holds in its TRSs, we may fail to satisfy the 25% (20% with respect to its taxable year ended on or before December 31, 2008 and prior taxable years) asset test which may result in our failure to qualify as a REIT."
