[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks which may affect future operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Our operating results and financial condition have varied in the past and may vary significantly in the future depending on a number of factors. We cannot be certain that we will successfully address these risks. If we are unable to address these risks, our business may not grow, our stock price may suffer and/or we may be unable to stay in business. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations.. Except for the historical information in this Annual Report, various matters contained in this Annual Report include forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Such factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. You should consider carefully the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock.. Risks relating to our business. Our revenue is highly dependent on a small number of clients, and the loss of, or material reduction in, revenue from any one of our major clients could significantly harm our results of operations and financial condition.. We have historically earned, and believe that over the next few fiscal years we will continue to earn, a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of clients. For our fiscal years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, our top three clients collectively generated approximately 31% and 27% of our revenue, respectively. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, Citi accounted for 19% of our total revenue. The loss of, or material reduction in revenue from any one of our major clients could materially reduce our total revenue, harm our reputation in the industry and/or reduce our ability to accurately predict our revenue, net income and cash flow. The loss of, or material reduction in revenue from any one of our major clients could also adversely affect our gross profit and utilization as we seek to redeploy resources previously dedicated to that client. Generally, our clients retain us on a non-exclusive, engagement-by-engagement basis, rather than under exclusive long-term contracts and may typically terminate or reduce our engagements without termination related penalties. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that revenue from our major clients will not be significantly reduced in the future, including from factors unrelated to our performance or work product such as consolidation by or among our clients, or the acquisition of a client or cost savings initiatives of our clients which may result in immediate lower external spend by our clients. Further, the loss of, or material reduction in, revenue from any one of our major clients has required us, and could in the future require us, to increase involuntary attrition. This could have a material adverse effect on our attrition rate and make it more difficult for us to attract and retain IT professionals in the future.. We may not be able to maintain our client relationships with our major clients on existing or on continued favorable terms and our clients may not renew their agreements with us, in which case our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our client concentration may also subject us to perceived or actual leverage that our clients may have, given their relative size and importance to us. If our clients seek to negotiate their agreements on terms less favorable to us and we accept such unfavorable terms, such unfavorable terms may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, unless and until we diversify and. 24. Table of Contents. expand our client base, our future success will significantly depend upon the timing and volume of business from our largest clients and the financial and operational success of these clients. If we were to lose one of our major clients or have a major client cancel substantial projects or otherwise significantly reduce its volume of business with us, our revenue and profitability would be materially reduced and our business and operating results would be seriously harmed.. We depend on clients concentrated in specific industries, such as BFSI, and with the Polaris acquisition, our BFS client concentration increased materially; we are therefore subject to enhanced risks relating to developments affecting these clients and industries that may cause them to reduce or postpone their IT spending.. In our fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, we derived substantially all of our revenue from clients in three industries: BFSI, C&T, and M&I. During our fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, we earned approximately 67% of our revenue from clients in the BFSI industries and our revenue from this industry vertical grew by approximately 25% from the prior fiscal year. Due to the Polaris acquisition, we have increased our industry concentration, most particularly in BFS. If any decline in the growth of the BFSI industries or large clients in such industries, particularly in the BFS or insurance industry, occurs, or if there is a significant consolidation in these industries or a decrease in growth or consolidation in other industry verticals on which we focus or impact of large clients in such industries, such events could materially reduce the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenue and profitability. If economic conditions weaken or slow, particularly in the industries in which we focus, our clients may significantly reduce or postpone their IT spending. Reductions in IT budgets, increased consolidation, or increased competition in these industries could result in an erosion of our client base and a reduction in our target market. Any reductions in the IT spending of companies in any one of these industries may reduce the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenue and profitability.. Restrictions on immigration may affect our ability to compete for and provide services to clients in the United States, Europe (particularly, the United Kingdom), or other countries, which could result in lost revenue, lower gross margins, delays in or losses of client engagements and otherwise adversely affect our ability to meet our growth, revenue and profit projections.. The vast majority of our team members are Indian and Sri Lankan nationals. The ability of our IT professionals to work in the United States, the United Kingdom and other countries depends on our ability to obtain the necessary visas and entry permits, including the H-1(B) visa. The Government conducts a random lottery to determine which H-1(B) applications will be adjudicated that year. Increasing demand for H-1(B) visas, or changes in how the annual limit is administered, could limit the company's ability to access those visas. In recent years, the United States has increased the level of scrutiny in granting H-1(B), L-1 and other business visas. The H-1(B) visa classification enables U.S. employers to hire qualified foreign workers in positions that require an education at least equal to a four-year bachelor degree in the United States in specialty occupations such as IT systems engineering and systems analysis. The H-1(B) visa usually permits an individual to work and live in the United States for a period of up to six years. Under certain circumstances, H-1(B) visa extensions after the six-year period may be available. H-1(B) visa holders are required to be paid the higher of the actual wage or the prevailing wage for their position at the site of their employment.. In addition, there are strict labor regulations associated with the H-1(B) visa classification, including disclosure, attestations and document retention. Employers who are H-1(B) dependent (i.e. those with fifteen percent (15%) or more of their workforce on H-1(B) visas are potentially subject to additional disclosures, attestations and subject to specific affirmative recruitment requirements if the employees they sponsor for H-1(B) visa do not qualify as \"exempt\" employees. An exempt employee is one who is either (a) paid an annual salary of at least $60,000 or b) one who holds a masters or higher degree in a specialty occupation related to their employment. In September 2014, we became an \"H-1(B) Dependent Employer.\" To avoid being subject to additional attestations, disclosures, and affirmative recruitment. 25. Table of Contents. requirements, we do not sponsor employees for H-1(B) visas who make less than $60,000 per year. As a \"H-1(B) Dependent Employer\" our petitions are subject to greater scrutiny at the time of adjudication. All users of the H-1(B) program are subject to periodic site visits from the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, or USCIS, to verify their compliance with immigration and Labor Regulations. In addition, the Wage and Hour Division of the United States Department of Labor may also conduct H-1(B) audits to verify compliance with labor regulations. A finding by the United States Department of Labor of willful or substantial failure by us to comply with existing regulations on the H-1(B) classification may result in back-pay liability, substantial fines, and/or a ban on future use of the H-1(B) program and other immigration benefits. We are users of the H-1(B) visa classification with respect to some of our key offshore workers who have relocated onsite to perform services for our clients. As a result of our H-1(B) Dependent Employer status, we are likely subjected to more site visits and a higher level of scrutiny by USCIS and the US Department of Labor than Non-Dependent Employers.. We also regularly transfer employees from our global subsidiaries, primarily those from India and Sri Lanka, to the United States to work on projects and at client sites using the L-1 visa classification. The L-1 visa allows companies abroad to transfer certain managers, executives and employees with specialized company knowledge to related United States companies such as a parent, subsidiary, affiliate, joint venture, or branch office. We have an approved \"Blanket L Program,\" under which the corporate relationships of our transferring and receiving entities have been pre-approved by the USCIS, thus enabling individual L-1 visa applications to be presented directly to a visa-issuing United States consular post abroad rather than undergoing the individual petition pre-approval process through USCIS in the United States. In recent years, both the United States consular posts that review initial L-1 applications and USCIS, which adjudicates individual petitions for initial grants and extensions of L-1 status, have become increasingly restrictive with respect to their interpretation of the regulations governing this category and all applications are subject to increased scrutiny. As a result, the rate of refusals of both individual and blanket L-1 petitions and of extensions has materially increased. In addition, even where L-1 visas are ultimately granted and issued, security measures undertaken by United States consular posts around the world have substantially delayed visa issuances as they are allowed the right to further scrutinize the visa and request for additional supporting documentation. Any inability to bring, or delays in bringing, qualified technical personnel into the United States to staff on-site customer locations would have a material adverse effect on our client engagements, our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to these immigration delays, we may also be required to hire or subcontract resources locally to perform the work onsite, thus negatively impacting our gross margins and overall profitability.. Since 2010 US, immigration law has imposed enhanced filing fees on employers who are significantly dependent upon H-1(B) and L-1 visa holders. An employer whose overall count of full-time employee equivalents consists of 50% or more of individuals holding H-1(B) or L-1 visas are subject to an enhanced filing fee. That enhanced fee is $4,000 and $4,500 for each new H-1B or L-1 petition filed respectively. We have been required to pay these enhanced fees, as the percentage of our overall US based workforce holding H-1(B) and L-1 visa status remains above the 50% mark. While we closely monitor the visa makeup of our workforce in an attempt to minimize our exposure to such enhanced fees and make efforts to recoup these costs either directly from our clients or indirectly through our billing rates, these enhanced fees have had a negative impact on our gross profit and overall cost of operations. Further growth and increased demand for our services will likely make it increasingly difficult for us to avoid the payment of these fees, thus impacting our gross margins and overall profitability.. We also process immigrant visas for lawful permanent residence (green cards) in the United States for employees to fill positions for which there are an insufficient number of able, willing, and qualified United States workers available to fill the positions. Compliance with existing United States immigration and labor laws, or changes in those laws making it more difficult to hire foreign nationals or limiting our ability to successfully obtain permanent residence for our foreign employees in the United States, could require us to incur additional unexpected labor costs and expenses or could restrain our ability to retain the skilled. 26. Table of Contents. professionals we need for our operations in the United States. Any of these restrictions or limitations on our hiring practices could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In response to terrorist attacks and global unrest, U.S. and U.K. immigration authorities, as well as other countries, have not only increased the level of scrutiny and conditions to granting visas, but have also introduced new security procedures, which include extensive background checks, personal interviews and the use of biometrics, as conditions to granting visas and work permits. A number of European countries are considering changes in immigration policies as well. The inability of key project personnel to obtain necessary visas or work permits could delay or prevent our fulfillment of client projects, which could hamper our growth and cause our revenue to decline. These restrictions and additional procedures may delay, or even prevent the issuance of a visa or work permit to our IT professionals and affect our ability to staff projects in a timely manner. Any delays in staffing a project can result in project postponement, delays or cancellation, which could result in lost revenue and decreased profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue, profitability and utilization rates.. Immigration laws in countries in which we seek to obtain visas or work permits may require us to meet certain other legal requirements as conditions to obtaining or maintaining entry visas. These immigration laws are subject to legislative change and varying standards of application and enforcement due to political forces, economic conditions or other events, including terrorist attacks.. To the extent we experience delays due to immigration restrictions, we may encounter client dissatisfaction, project and staffing delays in new and existing engagements, project cancellations, project losses, higher project costs and loss of revenue, resulting in decreases in profits and a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Due to these immigration delays, we may also need to perform more work onsite, or hire more resources locally, thus reducing our gross margins and overall profitability.. Changes in U.S. immigration law, if approved into law, may increase our cost of revenue and may substantially restrict or eliminate our ability to obtain visas to use offshore resources onsite, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, revenue, profitability and utilization rates.. The issue of companies outsourcing services to organizations operating in other countries is a topic of political discussion in many countries, including the United States, which is our largest market. The U.S. Congress has been actively considering various proposals that would make extensive changes to U.S. immigration laws regarding the admission of high-skilled temporary and permanent workers. Further, the current U.S. administration or Congress may seek to limit the admission of high-skilled temporary and permanent workers and has issued and may continue to issue executive orders designed to limit immigration. Any such provisions may increase our cost of doing business in the United States and may discourage customers from seeking our services. Our international expansion strategy and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected if changes in immigration and work permit laws and regulations or the administration or enforcement of such laws or regulations impair our ability to staff projects with professionals who are not citizens of the country where the work is to be performed. The potential risks and impact to our business if changes are made to immigration laws relating to use of H-1(B) and L-1 visas are approved could include:. <U+0095> Reduced ability to bring in foreign workers on an L-1 or H-1(B) visa    <U+0095> Increased scrutiny and requests for proof of eligibility on the use of L-1 and H-1(B) visas    <U+0095> Higher costs, including wages and benefits, for H-1(B) and L-1 visa holders. 27. Table of Contents. <U+0095> Elimination of the company's ability to pay the living expenses of an L-1 visa holder on a tax-free basis     <U+0095> Increased oversight by the Department of Labor (\"DOL\") over issuance, use and administration of L-1 visas, just as the DOL currently oversees H-1(B) visas. Even if we are able to apply for, or obtain, such visas, we could incur substantial delays and costs in processing any such requests and our costs of operations could materially rise, thus materially and negatively impacting our gross margins and our statement of income. Any inability to obtain, or extended delays in obtaining, these visas, or any delays or inability to hire resources for existing or future client projects could materially delay or prevent our commencement or fulfillment of client projects, which could hamper our growth and cause our revenue to decline. In addition, we may have to hire or use local onsite resources at substantially higher wage levels, rather than using existing offshore resources to staff onsite engagements which would materially reduce our gross margins. Even if we use our offshore resources, we may have to put offshore resources on U.S. payroll at U.S. prevailing wage levels and full benefits, rather than the existing practice of being able to provide a per diem reimbursement to the offshore resource on a tax-free basis to cover living expenses while onsite. Our costs of revenue could then substantially increase and our gross profit and our gross margins could then be materially and adversely affected. Any such delays or inability to staff needed resources on client engagements may cause client dissatisfaction, project and staffing delays in new and existing engagements, project cancellations, higher project costs and loss of revenue, resulting in decreases in profits and a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The international nature of our business exposes us to many complex risks, which may be beyond our control.. We have operations in the United States, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, India, Sri Lanka, Germany, Singapore, Austria, Hungary, Malaysia, Switzerland and Sweden and we serve clients across North America, Europe and Asia, and with the Polaris acquisition, added operations in Hong Kong, United Arab Emirates, New Zealand, Japan, Australia and Canada. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, revenue generated outside of the United States accounted for 35%, 35% and 30% of total revenue, respectively. Our corporate structure also spans multiple jurisdictions, with Virtusa Corporation incorporated in Delaware and its operating subsidiaries organized in India, Sri Lanka, the United Kingdom, Hungary, Germany, Singapore, Austria, Malaysia, Sweden, Switzerland and the Netherlands, as well as Polaris and its operating subsidiaries which are incorporated in Australia, China, the United Arab Emirates, Japan and Canada. As a result, our international revenue and operations are exposed to risks typically associated with conducting business internationally, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include:. <U+0095> negative currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which we conduct transactions, including most significantly, the U.K. pound sterling, the euro, the Indian rupee, the Swedish Krona, the Singapore dollar, the Canadian dollar and the Australian dollar (each in which our foreign revenues are principally denominated) and the Indian and Sri Lankan rupees (in which our foreign costs are primarily denominated)    <U+0095> adverse income tax consequences resulting from foreign income tax examination, such as challenges to our transfer pricing arrangements and challenges to our ability to claim tax holiday benefits in the countries in which we operate    <U+0095> difficulties in staffing, managing and supporting operations in multiple countries    <U+0095> potential fluctuation or decline in foreign economies    <U+0095> unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, including immigration restrictions, potential tariffs and other trade barriers. 28. Table of Contents. <U+0095> legal uncertainty owing to the overlap of different legal regimes and problems in asserting contractual or other rights across international borders, including compliance with local laws of which we may be unaware    <U+0095> government currency control and restrictions on repatriation of earnings    <U+0095> the burden and expense of complying with the laws and regulations of various jurisdictions    <U+0095> domestic and international economic or political changes, hostilities, terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war. Negative developments in any of these areas in one or more countries could result in a reduction in revenue or demand for our services, the cancellation or delay of client contracts, business interruption, threats to our intellectual property, difficulty in collecting receivables and a higher cost of doing business, including higher taxes, any of which could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in applicable tax regulations and resolutions of tax disputes could negatively affect our financial results.. We are subject to taxation in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"). The changes included in the Tax Act are broad and complex. The final impacts of the Tax Act may differ from the estimates provided elsewhere in this report, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the Tax Act, any legislative action to address questions that arise because of the Tax Act, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the Tax Act, or any updates or changes to estimates we have utilized to calculate the impacts, including impacts from changes to current year earnings estimates and foreign exchange rates of foreign subsidiaries. It is very difficult to assess the overall effect of potential tax changes, and how they might impact our future financial results. For instance, during fiscal 2019, we expect additional guidance with respect to Base erosion tax and Global intangible low taxed income that might have an impact on our current estimates.. Our quarterly financial position, revenue, operating results and profitability are challenging to predict and may vary from quarter to quarter, which could cause our share price to decline significantly.. Our quarterly revenue, operating results and profitability have varied in the past and are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future. The factors that are likely to cause these variations include:. <U+0095> unanticipated contract or project terminations, or reductions in scope or size of IT engagements    <U+0095> the continuing financial stability and growth prospects of our clients    <U+0095> our ability under US GAAP to recognize the revenue associated with the services performed in the applicable fiscal period due to many factors, including having fully signed contractual agreements with our clients for such periods or our ability to produce the deliverables or meet the project milestones in accordance with agreed upon specifications or timelines in the applicable fiscal period and achieve revenue recognition under US GAAP    <U+0095> lengthening of sales cycles    <U+0095> the number, timing, scope and contractual terms of IT projects in which we are engaged    <U+0095> delays in project commencement or staffing delays due to immigration issues or our inability to assign appropriately skilled or experienced personnel. 29. Table of Contents. <U+0095> our ability to obtain visas or applicable work permits for offshore personnel to commence projects at a client site for new or existing engagements    <U+0095> our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriate number of team members     <U+0095> the accuracy of estimates of resources, effort, time and fees required to complete fixed-price projects and costs, effort and time incurred in the performance of each project    <U+0095> changes in pricing in response to client demand and competitive pressures    <U+0095> our inability to manage the optimum mix of onsite and offshore staffing or required use of subcontractors     <U+0095> the mix of leadership and senior technical resources to junior engineering resources staffed on each project     <U+0095> unexpected changes in the utilization rate of our IT professionals    <U+0095> inability to collect our receivables from, or bill our unbilled services to, our clients due to our performance or client financial difficulties or client satisfaction with our performance, resulting in deferral of revenue recognition under US GAAP, delays in collection and/or negative impact on our cash flows     <U+0095> seasonal trends, primarily our hiring cycle and the budget and work cycles of our clients    <U+0095> the ratio of fixed-price contracts to time-and-materials contracts    <U+0095> employee wage levels and increases in compensation costs, including timing of promotions and annual pay increases, particularly in India and Sri Lanka    <U+0095> our ability to have the client reimburse us for travel and living expenses, especially the airfare and related expenses of our Indian and Sri Lankan offshore personnel traveling and working onsite in the United States or the United Kingdom    <U+0095> acquisitions, including transaction-related costs and write-downs from future impairments of identified intangible assets and goodwill, and other one-time, non-recurring projects. As a result, our revenue and our operating results for a particular period are challenging to predict and may decline in comparison to corresponding prior periods regardless of the strength of our business. Our future revenue is also challenging to predict because we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from fees for services generated from short-term contracts that may be terminated or delayed by our clients without penalty. In addition, a high percentage of our operating expenses, particularly related to salary expense, rent, depreciation expense and amortization of purchased intangible assets, are relatively fixed in advance of any particular quarter and are based, in part, on our expectations as to future revenue. If we are unable to predict the timing or amounts of future revenue accurately, we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall and fail to meet our forecasts. Unexpected revenue shortfalls may also decrease our gross margins and could cause significant changes in our operating results from quarter to quarter. As a result, and in addition to the factors listed above, any of the following factors could have a significant and adverse impact on our operating results, could result in a shortfall of revenue and could result in losses to us:. <U+0095> a client's decision not to pursue a new project or proceed to succeeding stages of a current project     <U+0095> the completion during a quarter of several major client projects, resulting in our having to pay underutilized team members in subsequent periods    <U+0095> adverse business decisions of our clients regarding the use of our services. 30. Table of Contents. <U+0095> our inability to transition team members quickly from completed projects to new engagements    <U+0095> our inability to manage costs, including personnel, infrastructure, facility and support services costs     <U+0095> exchange rate fluctuations. Due to the foregoing factors, it is possible that in some future periods our revenue and operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the trading price of our common stock could fall substantially either suddenly, or over time.. The results of the United Kingdom's referendum on withdrawal from the European Union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business.. In June 2016, a majority of voters in the United Kingdom elected to withdraw from the European Union in a national referendum, or Brexit Referendum. The Brexit Referendum was advisory, and the terms of any withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last at least two years after the government of the United Kingdom formally initiates a withdrawal process, which the U.K. government initiated in March 2017. The Brexit Referendum has created political and economic uncertainty about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union and as to whether any other European countries may similarly seek to exit the European Union. As we have material operations in the United Kingdom and Europe and our global operations serve many customers with significant operations in those regions, our financial condition and results of operation may be impacted by such uncertainty.. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, revenues from our customers in the United Kingdom and the rest of Europe represented 15% and 9%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues. A significant portion of our revenues from customers in the United Kingdom is generated in British pounds. This exposure subjects us to revenue risk with respect to our customers in the United Kingdom as well as to risk resulting from adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, revenues from our BFSI customers represented 67% of our consolidated revenues. Uncertainty regarding future United Kingdom financial laws and regulations, the withdrawal terms of the United Kingdom from the European Union and the future trade terms between the United Kingdom and the European Union could negatively impact the financial services sector, including our customers in such sector, and as a consequence adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Further, it is uncertain what impact the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union will have on general economic conditions in the United Kingdom, the European Union and globally. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we cannot attract and retain highly-skilled IT professionals, our ability to obtain, manage and staff new projects and expand existing projects may result in loss of revenue and an inability to expand our business.. Our business is labor intensive and our ability to execute and expand existing projects and obtain new clients depends largely on our ability to hire, train and retain highly-skilled IT professionals, particularly project managers, IT engineers and other senior technical personnel. The improvement in demand for global IT services has further increased the need for employees with specialized skills or significant experience in IT services, particularly at senior levels and those with special skills. Further, there is intense worldwide competition for IT professionals with the skills necessary to perform the services we offer. If we cannot hire and retain such additional qualified personnel, our ability to acquire, manage and staff new projects and to expand, manage and staff existing projects, may be materially impaired. We may then lose revenue and our ability to expand our business may be harmed. For example, in our fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, our voluntary attrition rate was 11.8%. We, and the industry in which we operate, generally experience high employee attrition and we cannot assure you that we will be able to hire or retain the number and quality of technical personnel necessary to satisfy our current and future client needs. We also may not be able to hire and retain enough skilled and experienced IT professionals to replace those who leave. Additionally, if we have to replace personnel who have left our company, we will incur. 31. Table of Contents. increased costs not only in hiring replacements but also in training such replacements until they can become productive and billable to our clients. In addition, we may not be able to redeploy and retrain our IT professionals in anticipation of continuing changes in technology, evolving standards and changing client preferences. Our inability to attract and retain IT professionals, or delays or inability to staff needed resources on client engagements may cause client dissatisfaction, project and staffing delays in new and existing engagements, project cancellations, project losses, higher project costs and loss of revenue, resulting in decreases in profits and a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The IT services market is highly competitive and our competitors may have advantages that may allow them to compete more effectively than we do to secure client contracts and attract skilled IT professionals.. The IT services market in which we operate includes a large number of participants and is highly competitive. Our primary competitors include offshore IT outsourcing firms and consulting and systems integration firms. We also occasionally compete with in-house IT departments, smaller vertically focused IT service providers and local IT service providers based in the geographic areas where we compete. We expect additional competition from offshore IT outsourcing firms in emerging locations such as Eastern Europe, Latin America and China, as well as offshore IT service providers with facilities in less expensive geographies within India.. The IT services industry in which we compete is experiencing rapid changes in its competitive landscape. Some of the large consulting firms and offshore IT service providers with which we compete have significant resources and financial capabilities combined with a greater number of IT professionals. Many of our competitors are significantly larger and some have gained access to public and private capital or have merged or consolidated with better capitalized partners. These events have created and may in the future create, larger and better capitalized competitors. Our competitors may have superior abilities to compete for market share and compete against us for our existing and prospective clients. Our competitors may also have larger engagements with our existing or prospective clients which, due to our size and scale, may provide our competitors with significant advantages in any competitive bidding process. Our competitors may also be better able to use significant economic incentives, such as lower billing rates or non-billable resources, to secure contracts with our existing and prospective clients or gain a competitive advantage by being able to staff engagements that we are unable to staff, due to our shortage of resources, our lack of special skill sets or immigration delays. Our competitors may also be better able to compete for and retain skilled professionals by offering them more attractive compensation or other incentives. These factors may allow our competitors to have advantages over us to meet client demands in an engagement requiring large numbers and varied types of resources with specific experience or skill-sets that we may not have readily available in the short-term or the long-term. We cannot assure you that we can maintain or enhance our competitive position against current and future competitors. Our failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our previous acquisitions, including the eTouch and Polaris acquisitions, and any future acquisitions may be difficult to integrate, could divert the attention of key management personnel, materially disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and materially adversely affect our financial results, including impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, if we are unable to realize the expected revenue and synergy growth or efficiencies from these acquisitions.. For the Polaris, eTouch and other recent acquisitions, as well as any future acquisitions, we may incur substantial risks, including:. <U+0095> inability to generate sufficient revenue or synergy growth to offset transaction costs or to maintain previous forecasts regarding revenue growth, profit margins and earnings per share forecasts. 32. Table of Contents. <U+0095> underperformance of the acquired company as compared to our forecasts, resulting in lower utilization, lower gross margins and operating margins, higher operating costs and lower profits from our previous forecasts    <U+0095> difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, accounting and personnel    <U+0095> difficulties in supporting and transitioning clients of our acquired companies or strategic partners     <U+0095> diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations    <U+0095> potential loss of key team members    <U+0095> assumption of responsibilities and obligations of the acquired business pursuant to the terms and conditions of services agreements that are not consistent with the terms and conditions that we typically accept and require    <U+0095> unknown liabilities or liabilities for which indemnification may or may not apply and difficulties of recovering any indemnifiable losses. Our organizational structure could also make it difficult for us to efficiently integrate acquired businesses or technologies into our ongoing operations and assimilate employees of those businesses into our culture and operations. Accordingly, we might fail to realize the expected benefits or strategic objectives of any acquisition we undertake. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. We have completed eleven acquisitions from November 2009 to March 31, 2018, including the closing of the Polaris and eTouch acquisitions. If we fail to successfully integrate these acquired companies or any company that we may acquire in the future and maintain their value, or if any existing or future acquired companies materially fail to perform in a manner consistent with our valuations or forecasts, we may suffer an impairment of our assets, resulting in an immediate charge to our consolidated statement of income. Any such failure to integrate an acquired company, or any impairment of intangible assets or goodwill of any such acquired company could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statements of income.. There can be no assurance that our business, results of operations and financial condition or our cash needs will not be adversely affected by our incurrence of indebtedness or obligations incurred in connection with our issuance of convertible preferred stock.. On May 3, 2017, we issued to the Orogen Group, an independent private company focused on supporting growth-oriented businesses, 3,000,000 shares of convertible preferred stock, which requires a 3.875% dividend per annum, payable quarterly in additional shares of common stock and/or cash at our option, for an aggregate purchase price of $108 million with a maturity/redemption date of May 3, 2024 and an initial conversion price of $36.00 (the \"Orogen Preferred Stock Financing\"). There is no guarantee that we will be able make cash payments on our preferred stock, our stockholders will not suffer increased dilution due to terms of our outstanding convertible preferred stock or that we will realize any synergies or increases in revenue to offset any such dilution to our stockholders.. In addition to the Orogen Preferred Stock Financing, we have also incurred substantial indebtedness under a senior secured debt facility to finance the Polaris transactions, including the delisting process of Polaris, and the eTouch acquisition. On February 6, 2018, we entered into a $450.0 million credit agreement with a syndicated bank group, which amends and restates our prior $300.0 million credit agreement under the new credit facility, we drew down $180.0 million on the new term loan and $55.0 million on the new revolving credit facility to repay in full the prior credit facility and fund the Polaris delisting transaction. We are obligated to pay certain interest and amortization payments under this new credit facility. The term of the Credit Agreement is five years, ending February 6, 2023. As of March 31, 2018, the outstanding amount under the Credit Agreement was $305.0 million.. 33. Table of Contents. There is no guarantee that we will be able to service the interest and principal payments on our debt or make cash payments on our preferred stock or that our business, results of operations and financial condition will not be adversely affected by our incurrence of indebtedness or our stockholders will not suffer increased dilution due to terms of our outstanding convertible preferred stock.. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, which may be significant. If we draw down from our credit facility, or if we want to pay required dividends in cash on our outstanding convertible preferred stock, we will be required to have sufficient cash available in the United States to pay scheduled installments, accrued interest and fees from time to time and at maturity on our term loan or for dividends on our preferred stock payments if we want to pay in cash and not pay our dividends in commons stock which will increase the dilutive impact of the financing. If we do not have sufficient cash available in the United States or we fail to generate sufficient cash from operations in the United States, we may be unable to service the debt or pay dividends in cash on our convertible preferred stock or we may be required to repatriate earnings held by our foreign subsidiaries. Any such repatriation would cause us to accrue the applicable amount of taxes associated with such earnings at that time, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we may not have sufficient cash in the United States or abroad to make payments on our debt obligations or dividends in cash on our convertible preferred stock, which could cause us to seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our existing indebtedness. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or dividend payments on our convertible preferred stock in cash or that we can avoid increased dilution to our stockholders under the terms of our convertible preferred stock.. In addition, the credit agreement contains certain financial and other covenants, including customary minimum cash, maximum debt to EBITDA and minimum fixed charge coverage covenants. Failure to comply with these covenants or other provisions of the credit agreement could result in a default under the credit agreement, requiring us to either cure such default, receive a waiver, or in the absence of such cure or waiver, refinance any outstanding indebtedness under the credit agreement. There is no assurance that we would be able to refinance our debt on acceptable terms and conditions. Moreover, if we are unable to force conversion of the preferred stock to common stock or there is not a conversion event of the preferred stock holders to common stock prior to May 3, 2024, under the terms of our convertible preferred stock, we are required to redeem the shares of preferred stock. There is no assurance that we would be able to redeem the preferred stock or obtain financing on acceptable terms and conditions, if at all.. Despite our senior secured credit facility and the Orogen Preferred Stock Financing, we may need to raise capital in the future, although our ability to raise capital may be limited.. In connection with the Polaris acquisition, delisting process and related transactions, as well as the eTouch acquisition, we entered into a credit facility for $450.0 million, which amends and restates our prior $300.0 million credit agreement and provides for a $200.0 million revolving credit facility, a $180.0 million term loan facility, and a $70.0 million delayed-draw term loan, of which we have drawn down $71 million in term loan and $49 million from the line of credit to buy the Polaris shares, with $145 million remaining under the revolving credit facility. On May 3, 2017, we closed the Orogen Preferred Stock Financing, amended our credit agreement primarily to issue the convertible preferred stock and pay certain dividends with respect to the convertible preferred stock and used $81 million of the convertible preferred stock proceeds to repay part of our $200 million term loan.. If our remaining revolving credit facility, cash flows and proceeds from the preferred stock sale are not sufficient to fund our strategic investments or operations, we may seek to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, whereby the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we seek to obtain additional debt financing, there is no assurance that existing lenders will permit additional indebtedness, and even if permitted, a substantial. 34. Table of Contents. portion of our operating cash flow may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness, thus limiting funds available for our business activities and increasing our costs of operations, which could have a material adverse impact on our operating margins. Any such debt financing could require us to comply with restrictive financial and operating covenants, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition and there is no guarantee or assurance that any such credit facility will be available or if so, on reasonable terms.. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all or in the locations where we need the additional capital. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, when we desire them, our ability to fund our operations and growth, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities or otherwise respond to competitive pressures may be significantly limited.. Our substantial level of debt and related obligations, including interest payments, covenants and restrictions, as well as our obligations under our Orogen Preferred Stock Financing, including annual and quarterly dividend obligations and the redemption requirement, could have important consequences, including by:. <U+0095> impairing our ability to invest in and successfully grow our business and make acquisitions    <U+0095> making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, which could result in an event of default     <U+0095> limiting our ability to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt obligations and other general corporate requirements;    <U+0095> hindering our ability to raise equity capital    <U+0095> increasing our vulnerability to general economic downturns, competition and industry conditions, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less leveraged and therefore we may be unable to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting     <U+0095> imposing additional restrictions on the manner in which we conduct our business, including restrictions on our ability to pay dividends, incur additional debt and sell assets    <U+0095> placing us at a possible disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. The occurrence of any one of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows and ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness our preferred stock holders. Insufficient funds may require us to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our activities.. We could be subject to strict restrictions on the movement of cash and the exchange of foreign currencies which could limit our access to cash in non-U.S. locations to fund our U.S. operations or otherwise make investments where needed.. In some countries, we could be subject to strict restrictions on the movement of cash and the exchange of foreign currencies, which would limit our ability to use this cash across our global operations. This risk could increase as we continue our geographic expansion in emerging markets, which are more likely to impose these restrictions than more established markets. We therefore may not have ready access to cash in geographies where we need to make investments. For instance, at March 31, 2018, we had approximately $244.9 million of cash, cash equivalents, short term investments and long-term investments of which we hold approximately $191.0 million of cash, cash equivalents, short term investments and long-term investments in non-U.S. locations, particularly in India, Sri Lanka, Singapore and the United Kingdom.. 35. Table of Contents. Cash in these non-U.S. locations may not otherwise be available for servicing debt obligations, potential investment or use for operations in the United States or other geographies where needed, as we have stated that this cash is indefinitely reinvested in these non-U.S. locations. Moreover, even if we were to repatriate this cash back to the United States for use in U.S. investments, this cash would be subject to additional taxes. Due to various methods by which cash could be repatriated to the United States in the future, the amount of taxes attributable to the cash is dependent on circumstances existing if and when remittance occurs. Due to the various methods by which such earnings could be repatriated in the future, it is not practicable to determine the amount of applicable taxes that would result from such repatriation. In addition, some countries could have tight restrictions on the movement and exchange of foreign currencies which could further limit our ability to use such funds for repayment of debt, global operations or capital or other strategic investments. Our inability to access our cash where and when needed could impede our ability to service our debt obligations, make investments and support our operations.. We may face damage to our professional reputation and be subject to legal claims and litigation, including high and unexpected costs as a result of any litigation or client disputes, if our services do not meet our clients' expectations or violate contractual terms with our clients.. Many of our projects involve technology applications or systems that are critical to the operations of our clients' businesses and handle very large volumes of transactions. If we fail to perform our services correctly, we may be unable to deliver applications or systems to our clients with the promised functionality or within the promised time frame, or to satisfy the required service levels for support and maintenance. If a client is not satisfied with our services or products, including those of subcontractors we employ, we may not be able to invoice for our services, or if we do invoice, we may not be able to collect the fees due on such engagements and our business may suffer. Moreover, if we fail to meet our contractual obligations, our clients may terminate their contracts and we could face legal liabilities, and increased costs, including warranty or breach of contract claims against us. If we were not to prevail in the litigation, we may be required to refund all fees paid, reverse previously recognized revenues or pay damages suffered by the client which may exceed the value of the contract, despite limitation of liability provisions in the contract. If any adverse litigation or arbitration award were granted against us, we may not have reserved sufficiently (or at all, depending on the probability of outcome) for these losses and, as such, these losses could result in reversal of revenues or increased and unexpected financial losses which could have a material and negative impact on our statement of operations and cash position in the financial quarter and fiscal year in which the award was granted. Any failure in a client's project could also result in a claim for substantial damages, our inability to recognize all or some of the revenue for the client project, potential reversals of revenue previously recognized, non-payment of outstanding invoices, increased expenses due to increase in reserves for doubtful accounts, loss of future business with such client, increased costs due to non-billable time of our resources dedicated to address any performance or client satisfaction issues, or litigation costs and expenses, regardless of our responsibility for such failure.. We may face difficulties in providing end-to-end business solutions or delivering complex and large projects for our clients that could cause clients to discontinue their work with us, which in turn could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We have been expanding the nature and scope of our engagements and have added new service offerings across the industries we serve. The success of these service offerings depends, in part, upon continued demand for such services by our existing and prospective clients and our ability to meet this demand in a cost-competitive and effective manner. To obtain engagements for such end-to-end solutions, we also are more likely to compete with large, well-established international consulting firms, resulting in increased competition and pricing pressure. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that our new service offerings will effectively meet client needs or that we will be able to attract existing and prospective clients to these service offerings.. 36. Table of Contents. The increased breadth of our service offerings has resulted and may continue to result in larger and more complex projects with our clients. This requires us to establish closer relationships with our clients and achieve a thorough understanding of their operations. Our ability to establish such relationships depends on a number of factors, including the proficiency of our professionals and our management personnel. Our failure to understand our client requirements or our failure to deliver services that meet the requirements specified by our clients could result in termination of client contracts, client disputes and contractual claims against us, and we could be liable to our clients for significant penalties or damages, as well as legal and litigation costs if claims are not resolved amicably, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Larger projects often involve multiple engagements or stages, and there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages or may cancel or delay additional planned engagements. These terminations, cancellations or delays may result from factors that have little or nothing to do with the quality of our services, such as the business or financial condition of our clients or the economy generally. Such cancellations or delays make it difficult to plan for project resource requirements and inaccuracies in such resource planning and allocation may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. New and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements add uncertainty to our compliance policies and increase our costs of, and time dedicated to, compliance.. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, other SEC regulations, and the Nasdaq Global Select Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies like ours. These laws, regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time, as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such corporate governance standards.. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes- Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and our external auditors' audit of that assessment requires the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We consistently assess the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, remediate any control deficiencies that may be identified, and validate through testing that our control environment is functioning as documented. While we do not anticipate any material weaknesses, the inability of management and our independent registered public accountant to provide us with an unqualified report as to the adequacy and effectiveness, respectively, of our internal controls over financial reporting, including operations of any acquired businesses, such as Polaris or eTouch, in the applicable reporting period, for future year-ends could result in adverse consequences to us, including, but not limited to, a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline.. Our management team and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives which extend to all of our subsidiaries, including Polaris and its subsidiaries. In particular, these increased obligations will require substantial attention from our senior management and divert its attention away from the day-to-day management of our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations.. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, and our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards in this regard have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, the laws, regulations and standards regarding corporate governance may make it more difficult for us to. 37. Table of Contents. obtain director and officer liability insurance. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with their performance of duties. As a result, we may face difficulties attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If we fail to comply with new or changed laws, regulations or standards of corporate governance, our business and reputation may be harmed.. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may materially and negatively affect our revenue, gross margin, operating margin, net income and cash flows.. The exchange rates among the Indian and Sri Lankan rupees and the U.S. dollar and the U.K. pound sterling, as well as the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the U.K. pound sterling, have changed substantially in prior periods and may continue to fluctuate substantially in the future. We expect that a majority of our revenue will continue to be generated in the U.S. dollar, U.K. pound sterling, Indian Rupee, the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar and the Singapore dollar for the foreseeable future. Any appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the U.K. pound sterling, the euro, the Indian rupee, the Singapore dollar, the Canadian dollar and/or the Australian dollar will likely have a negative impact on our revenue, operating income and net income. For the foreseeable future, we also expect that a significant portion of our expenses, including personnel costs and operating expenditures, will continue to be denominated in Indian and Sri Lankan rupees. Accordingly, any material appreciation of the Indian rupee or the Sri Lankan rupee against the U.S. dollar or U.K. pound sterling could have a material adverse effect on our cost of revenue, gross margins and net income, which may in turn have a negative impact on our business, operating results, financial condition and results of operations.. Our operating results may be adversely affected by our use of derivative financial instruments.. There is no guarantee that our financial results will not be adversely affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations or that any efforts by us to engage in currency hedging activities will be effective.. Although we have adopted a six-quarter cash flow hedging program to minimize the effect of any Indian rupee fluctuation on our financial condition, these hedges may not be effective or may cause us to forego certain potential benefits, especially given the volatility of the currency. In addition, to the extent that these hedges cease to qualify for hedge accounting, we may have to recognize the derivative instruments' unrealized gains or losses in earnings prior to maturity. If we are unable to accurately forecast our Indian-rupee denominated costs, we may lose our ability to qualify for hedge accounting. We cannot guarantee our ability to accurately forecast such expenses. In addition, as part of the Polaris acquisition, we have assumed a cash flow program designed to mitigate the impact of the volatility of the translation of Polaris U.S. dollar denominated revenue into Indian rupees over a rolling 18-month period. While these hedges are achieving their designed objective for Polaris, upon consolidation they may cause volatility in our U.S. dollar denominated revenue due to variations between monthly average and contract hedge rates when converting back to U.S. dollars in consolidation. Furthermore, we are exposed to foreign currency volatility related to other currencies including, the Swedish Krona, the Canadian dollar, the euro, the Singapore dollar, the Sri Lankan rupee, and the Australian dollar, which are either not hedged or not hedged in full. Any significant change as compared to the U.S. dollar could have a negative impact on our revenue, operating profit, and net income. Finally, as we continue to leverage our global delivery model, more of our expenses will be incurred in currencies other than those in which we bill for the related services. An increase in the value of these currencies, such as the Indian rupee or Sri Lankan rupee, against the U.S. dollar or U.K. pound sterling could increase costs for delivery of services at off-shore sites by increasing labor and other costs that are denominated in the respective local currency.. 38. Table of Contents. Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violation of these regulations could harm our business.. We are subject to numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as anti-corruption, import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti-competition, data privacy and protection, employment and labor relations. Some of these legal regimes are in emerging markets where legal systems may be less developed or familiar to us. Compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly, time- consuming and requires significant resources. Violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business and damage to our reputation. Violations of these regulations in connection with the performance of our obligations to our clients also could result in liability for significant monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity and other reputational damage, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. Due to the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws may not be well developed or provide sufficiently clear guidance and may be insufficient to protect our rights.. In particular, in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate and/or seek to expand, it is possible that our employees, subcontractors or agents in the local business community might not conform to international business standards and could violate anti-corruption laws, or regulations, including the UK Bribery Act of 2010 and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") which prohibit improper payments or offers of improper payments to foreign officials to obtain business or any other benefit. The FCPA also requires covered companies to make and keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions of the company and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance, our employees, subcontractors and agents could take actions that violate these policies or procedures or applicable anti-corruption laws, regulations or standards. Violations of these laws or regulations by us, our employees or any of these third parties could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions (whether or not we participated or knew about the actions leading to the violations), including fines or penalties, disgorgement of profits and suspension or disqualification from work, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, including our results of operations and our reputation.. If we do not continue to maintain or improve our operational, financial and other internal controls and systems to manage our growth and size or if we are unable to enter, operate and compete effectively in new geographic markets, our business may suffer and the value of our stockholders' investment in our Company may be harmed.. Our growth, including the eTouch acquisition and integration of eTouch into Virtusa, will continue to place significant demands on our management and other resources and will require us to continue to develop and improve our operational, financial and other internal controls in the United States, Europe, India, Sri Lanka and elsewhere. In particular, our continued growth will increase the challenges involved in:. <U+0095> recruiting, training and retaining technical, finance, marketing and management personnel with the knowledge, skills and experience that our business model requires    <U+0095> maintaining high levels of client satisfaction    <U+0095> developing and improving our internal administrative infrastructure and controls, particularly our financial, operational, communications and other internal systems and controls    <U+0095> preserving our culture, values and entrepreneurial environment. 39. Table of Contents. <U+0095> effectively managing our personnel and operations and effectively communicating to our personnel worldwide our core values, strategies and goals    <U+0095> ensuring the accounting and internal controls in Polaris are at least as stringent as those in Virtusa and comply with applicable rules, regulations and requirements to which Virtusa is subject, such as compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley (\"SOX\") and SEC rules and regulations.. In addition, the increasing size and scope of our operations increase the possibility that a member of our personnel will engage in unlawful or fraudulent activity, breach our contractual obligations, or otherwise expose us to unacceptable business risks, despite our efforts to train our people and maintain internal controls to prevent such instances. If we do not continue to maintain and/or develop and implement the right processes and tools to manage our enterprise, our ability to compete successfully and achieve our business objectives could be impaired.. We may not be able to obtain, develop or implement new systems, infrastructure, procedures and controls that are required to support our operations, maintain cost controls, market our services and manage our relationships with our clients.. To manage our operations effectively, we must continue to maintain and may need to enhance our IT infrastructure, financial and accounting systems and controls and manage expanded operations in several locations. We also must attract, integrate, train and retain qualified personnel, especially in the areas of accounting, internal audit and financial disclosure. Further, we will need to manage our relationships with various clients, vendors and other third parties. We may not be able to develop and implement on a timely basis, if at all, the systems, infrastructure procedures and controls required to support our operations, including infrastructure management, and controls regarding usage and deployment of hardware and software, for performance of our services. Any failure by us to comply with these controls or our contractual obligations could result in legal liability to us, which would have a negative impact on our consolidated statements of income and consolidated balance sheets. Additionally, some factors, like changes in immigration laws or visa processing restrictions that limit our ability to engage offshore resources at client locations in the United States, the United Kingdom or other countries, are outside of our control. Our future operating results will also depend on our ability to develop and maintain a successful sales organization and processes that can ensure our ability to effectively monitor, manage and forecast our sales activities and resource needs. If we are unable to manage our operations effectively, our operating results could fluctuate from quarter to quarter and our financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. The failure to successfully and timely implement certain financial system changes to improve operating efficiency and enhance our reporting controls could harm our business.. We have implemented and continue to install several upgrades and enhancements to our financial systems. We expect these initiatives to enable us to achieve greater operating and financial reporting efficiency and also enhance our existing control environment through increased levels of automation of certain processes. Failure to successfully implement and execute these initiatives in a timely, effective and efficient manner could significantly increase our costs, distract our management, and result in the disruption of our operations, the inability to comply with our Sarbanes-Oxley obligations and the inability to report our financial results in a timely and accurate manner.. Our share price could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls.. The accuracy of our financial reporting is dependent on the effectiveness of our internal controls. We are required to provide a report from management to our stockholders on our internal control over financial reporting that includes an assessment of the effectiveness of these controls. Internal control over financial reporting has inherent limitations, including human error, the possibility that controls could be. 40. Table of Contents. circumvented or become inadequate because of changed conditions, and fraud. Because of these inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting might not prevent or detect all misstatements or fraud. If we cannot maintain and execute adequate internal control over financial reporting or implement required new or improved controls to ensure the reliability of the financial reporting and preparation of our financial statements for external use, we could suffer harm to our reputation, fail to meet our public reporting requirements on a timely basis, or be unable to properly report on our business and the results of our operations, and the market price of our securities could be materially adversely affected.. We are investing substantial cash in new facilities and our profitability could be reduced if our business does not grow proportionately.. We intend to make increased investments in our existing global delivery centers in Asia, particularly our largest centers in India and Sri Lanka. We may face cost overruns and project delays in connection with these facilities or other facilities we may construct or seek to lease in the future. Such delays may also cause us to incur additional leasing costs to extend the terms of existing facility leases or to enter into new short-term leases if we cannot move into the new facilities in a timely manner. Such investment may also significantly increase our fixed costs, including an increase in depreciation expense. If we are unable to expand our business and revenue proportionately, our profitability would be reduced.. We may be audited by software vendors from whom we license or use their software to train our resources or serve our clients, which may result in claims for infringement, violations of license provisions, or other damages.. From time to time, we are subject to audit by our vendors from whom we license and use software to confirm compliance with usage and deployment requirements. If, as a result of these audits or otherwise, vendors believe that we have committed usage or deployment violations, we may be required to purchase software from these vendors, and we may be subject to claims of infringement or wrongful usage which may result in legal liability to us, including damages, legal fees and expenses. In addition to legal liability and related expense of any litigation, which may include damages and the obligations to purchase software from such software vendor, we may be prevented from using the vendor's software in the future which may have a material and negative impact on our ability to service our customers, conduct training of our IT professionals and generally perform our services.. Negative public perception in the markets in which we sell services regarding offshore IT service providers and proposed anti-outsourcing legislation may adversely affect demand for our services.. We have based our growth strategy on certain assumptions regarding our industry, services and future demand in the market for such services. However, the trend to outsource IT services may not continue and could reverse. Offshore outsourcing is a politically sensitive topic in the United States and the United Kingdom. For example, recently many organizations and public figures in the United States and the United Kingdom have publicly expressed concern about a perceived association between offshore outsourcing providers and the loss of jobs in their home countries. In addition, there has been recent publicity about the negative experience of certain companies that use offshore outsourcing, particularly in India. Current or prospective clients may elect to perform such services themselves or may be discouraged from transferring these services from onshore to offshore providers to avoid negative perceptions that may be associated with using an offshore provider. Any slowdown or reversal of existing industry trends towards offshore outsourcing would seriously harm our ability to compete effectively with competitors that operate out of facilities located in the United States or the United Kingdom. Legislation in the United States or in certain European countries may be enacted that is intended to discourage or restrict outsourcing. Any changes to existing laws or the enactment of new legislation restricting offshore outsourcing in the United States or the United Kingdom may adversely affect our ability to do business in the United States or in the United Kingdom, particularly if these changes are widespread, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 41. Table of Contents. Cyber-attacks as well as improper disclosure or control of personal information could result in liability and harm our reputation, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our business is heavily dependent on the security of our IT networks and those of our clients. Internal or external attacks on any of those could disrupt the normal operations of our engagements and impede our ability to provide critical services to our clients, thereby subjecting us to liability under our contracts. Additionally, our business involves the use, storage and transmission of information about our employees, our clients and customers of our clients. While we take measures to protect the security of, and unauthorized access to, our systems, as well as the privacy of personal and proprietary information, it is possible that our security controls over our systems, as well as other security practices we follow or those systems of our clients into which we operate and rely upon, may not prevent the improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable or proprietary information. Such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts and laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue.. Further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we provide services and continue to develop in ways which we cannot predict, including with respect to evolving technologies such as cloud computing. This includes the Global Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the European Union-wide legal framework to govern data collection, use and sharing and related consumer privacy rights, expected to take effect in 2018. The GDPR includes significant penalties for non-compliance. Our failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation in the marketplace, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may face liability if we breach our obligations related to the protection, security, nondisclosure of confidential client information or disclosure of sensitive data or failure to comply with data protection laws and regulations.. In the course of providing services to our clients, we may have access to confidential client information, including nonpublic personal data. We are bound by certain agreements to use and disclose this information in a manner consistent with the privacy standards under regulations applicable to our clients and are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as the European Union Directive on Data Protection and various U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other individually identifiable information. If any person, including a team member of ours, misappropriates client confidential information, or if client confidential information is inappropriately disclosed due to a security breach of our computer systems, system failures or otherwise, or if a security breach occurs on a project on which we are engaged, we may have substantial liabilities to our clients or our clients' customers and may incur substantial liability and penalties in connection with any violation of applicable privacy laws and/or criminal prosecution. In addition, in the event of any breach or alleged breach of our confidentiality agreements with our clients, these clients may terminate their engagements with us or sue us for breach of contract, resulting in the associated loss of revenue and increased costs and damaged reputation. We may also be subject to civil or criminal liability if we are deemed to have violated applicable regulations. We cannot assure you that we will adequately address the risks created by the regulations to which we may be contractually obligated to abide.. In addition, as a global service provider with customers in a broad range of industries, we often have access to or are required to manage, utilize, collect and store sensitive data subject to various regulatory regimes, including but not limited to U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of personal financial and health data and the European Union Directive on Data Protection (to be superseded by the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation in May 2018). If unauthorized access to or disclosure of such data in our possession or control occurs or we otherwise fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations in this regard, we could be exposed to civil or criminal enforcement actions and penalties in connection with any violation of applicable data protection laws, as well as lawsuits brought by. 42. Table of Contents. our customers, our customers' customers, their clients or others for breaching contractual confidentiality and security provisions or data protection laws. Laws and expectations relating to data protections continue to evolve in ways that may limit our access, use and disclosure of sensitive data, and may require increased expenditures by us or may dictate that we not offer certain types of services.. In addition, many of our agreements with our clients do not include any limitation on our liability to them with respect to breaches of our obligation to keep the information we receive from them confidential. Although we have general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors or omissions, there can be no assurance that coverage will continue to be available on reasonable terms or will be sufficient in amount to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage or changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our failure to anticipate rapid changes in technology may negatively affect demand for our services in the marketplace.. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and implement business and technology solutions that anticipate rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry standards and client preferences. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely basis, which may negatively affect demand for our solutions in the marketplace. Also, if our competitors respond faster than we do to changes in technology, industry standards and client preferences, we may lose business and our services may become less competitive or obsolete. Any one or a combination of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain and successfully complete client engagements.. Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party providers could impair our global delivery model, which could result in client dissatisfaction and a reduction of our revenue.. We depend upon third parties to provide a high-speed network of active voice and data communications 24 hours per day and various satellite and optical links between our global delivery centers and our clients. Consequently, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems with the equipment or at the facilities of these third-party providers could result in unanticipated interruptions in the delivery of our services. For example, we may not be able to maintain active voice and data communications between our global delivery centers and our clients' sites at all times due to disruptions in these networks, system failures or virus attacks. Any significant loss in our ability to communicate or any impediments to any IT professional's ability to provide services to our clients could result in a disruption to our business, which could hinder our performance or our ability to complete client projects in a timely manner. This, in turn, could lead to substantial liability to our clients, client dissatisfaction, loss of revenue and a material adverse effect on our business, our operating results and financial condition. We cannot assure you that our business interruption insurance will adequately compensate our clients or us for losses that may occur. Even if covered by insurance, any failure or breach of security of our systems could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients.. Some of our client contracts contain restrictions or penalty provisions that, if triggered, could result in lower future revenue and decrease our profitability.. We have entered in the past, and may in the future enter, into contracts that contain restrictions or penalty provisions that, if triggered, may adversely affect our operating results. For instance, some of our client contracts provide that, during the term of the contract and for a certain period thereafter ranging from six to twelve months, we may not use the same personnel to provide similar services to any of the client's competitors. This restriction may hamper our ability to compete for and provide services to clients in the same industry. In addition, some contracts contain provisions that would require us to pay penalties or liquidated damages to our clients if we do not meet pre-agreed service level requirements. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our future revenue and profitability under these contracts could be materially harmed.. 43. Table of Contents. Our contractual limitations on liability with our clients and third parties may not be enforceable.. Under a majority of our agreements with our clients, our liability for breach of certain of our obligations is generally limited to actual damages suffered by the client and is typically capped at the greater of an agreed amount or the fees paid or payable to us for a period of time under the relevant agreement. These limitations and caps on liability may be unenforceable or otherwise may not protect us from liability for damages. In addition, certain liabilities, such as claims of third parties for which we may be required to indemnify our clients or liability for breaches of confidentiality, are generally not limited under those agreements. Our agreements are governed by laws of multiple jurisdictions, therefore the interpretation of such provisions, and the availability of defenses to us, may vary, which may contribute to the uncertainty as to the scope of our potential liability. In addition, many of our agreements with our clients do not include any limitation on our liability to them with respect to breaches of our obligation to keep the information we receive from them confidential.. Our services may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may subject us to legal liability, harm our reputation, prevent us from offering some services to our clients or distract management.. We cannot be sure that our services or the deliverables that we develop and create for our clients do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties and infringement claims may be asserted against us or our clients. As the number of patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights in our industry increase, we believe that companies in our industry will face more frequent infringement claims. These claims may harm our reputation, distract management, increase costs and prevent us from offering some services to our clients. Historically, we have generally agreed to indemnify our clients for all expenses and liabilities resulting from infringement of intellectual property rights of third parties based on the services and deliverables that we have performed and provided to our clients. In some instances, the amount of these indemnities may be greater than the revenue we receive from the client. In addition, as a result of intellectual property litigation, we may be required to stop selling, incorporating or using products that use or incorporate the infringed intellectual property. We may be required to obtain a license or pay a royalty to make, sell or use the relevant technology from the owner of the infringed intellectual property. Such licenses or royalties may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may also be required to redesign our services or change our methodologies so as not to use the infringed intellectual property, which may not be technically or commercially feasible and may cause us to expend significant resources. Subject to certain limitations, under our indemnification obligations to our clients, we may also have to provide refunds to our clients to the extent that we must require them to cease using an infringing deliverable if we are unable to provide a work-around or acquire a license to permit use of the infringing deliverable that we had provided to them as part of a service engagement. If we are obligated to make any such refunds or dedicate time to provide alternatives or acquire a license to the infringing intellectual property, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. The loss of key members of our senior management team may prevent us from executing our business strategy.. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service and performance of key members of our senior management team. Our growth and success depends to a significant extent on our ability to retain Kris Canekeratne, our chief executive officer, who is a founder of our company and has led the growth, operation, culture and strategic direction of our business since its inception. The loss of his services or the services of other key members of our senior management could seriously harm our ability to execute our business strategy. Although we have entered into agreements with our executive officers providing for severance and change in control benefits to them, each of our executive officers or other key employees could terminate employment with us at any time. We also may have to incur significant costs in identifying, hiring, training and retaining replacements for key employees. The loss of any member of our senior management team might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business or. 44. Table of Contents. development objectives and could materially harm our business. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our team members.. Risks related to our Indian and Sri Lankan operations. Political instability or changes in the central or state governments in India could result in the change of several policies relating to foreign direct investment and repatriation of capital and dividends. Further, changes in the monetary and economic policies could adversely affect economic conditions in India generally and our business in particular.. We have subsidiaries in India and a significant portion of our business, fixed assets and human resources are located in India. As a result, our business is affected by foreign exchange rates and controls, interest rates, local regulations, changes in government policy, taxation, social and civil unrest and other political, economic or other developments in or affecting India. Since 1991, successive Indian governments have pursued policies of economic liberalization. In the past, the Indian economy has experienced many of the problems that commonly confront the economies of developing countries, including high inflation, erratic gross domestic product growth and shortages of foreign exchange. The Indian government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over many aspects of the Indian economy and Indian government actions concerning the economy could have a material adverse effect on private sector entities like us. In the past, the Indian government has provided significant tax incentives and relaxed certain regulatory restrictions in order to encourage foreign investment in specified sectors of the economy, including the software development services industry. Programs that have benefited us include, among others, tax holidays, liberalized import and export duties and preferential rules on foreign investment. Notwithstanding these benefits, as noted above, India's central and state governments remain significantly involved in the Indian economy as regulators. In recent years, the Indian government has introduced non-income related taxes, including the fringe benefit tax (which was repealed as of April 1, 2009) and General Sales Taxes (\"GST\"), and income-related taxes, including the Minimum Alternative Tax. In addition, a change in government leadership in India or change in policies of the existing government in India that results in the elimination of any of the benefits realized by us from our Indian operations or the imposition of new taxes applicable to such operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For instance, certain changes to the application of the Minimum Alternative Tax with respect to Special Economic Zone (\"SEZ\") units may negatively impact our cash flows and other benefits enjoyed by us which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Changes in the policies or political stability of the government of Sri Lanka could adversely affect economic conditions in Sri Lanka, which could adversely affect our business.. Our subsidiary in Sri Lanka has been approved as an export computer software developer by the Board of Investment (\"BOI\") in Sri Lanka, which is a statutory body organized to facilitate foreign investment into Sri Lanka and grant concessions and benefits to entities with which it has entered into agreements. Pursuant to our current agreement with the BOI, our Sri Lankan subsidiary is entitled to an exemption from income taxation on export revenue for a period of 12 years expiring on March 31, 2019 provided that certain job creation and retention requirements were met by March 31, 2017. We believe we have achieved the job criteria and have notified the BOI. The BOI, on review, could challenge our hiring commitments in which case we would have to forego part of the 12 year tax holiday. Further, government policies relating to taxation other than on income would also have an impact on the subsidiary, and the political, economic or social factors in Sri Lanka may affect these policies. Historically, past incumbent governments have followed policies of economic liberalization. However, we cannot assure you that the current government or future governments will continue these liberal policies.. 45. Table of Contents. Regional conflicts or terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war in the United States, the United Kingdom, India, Sri Lanka, or other regions could adversely affect financial markets, resulting in loss of client confidence and our ability to serve our clients which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The Asian region has from time to time experienced instances of civil unrest and hostilities among neighboring countries, including between India and Pakistan. Since May 1999, military confrontations between India and Pakistan have occurred in Kashmir. Also, there have been military hostilities and civil unrest in Iraq and Afghanistan. Terrorist attacks, such as the ones that occurred in Brussels in March 2016, Paris in November 2015, Boston on April 15, 2013, New York and Washington, D.C., on September 11, 2001, New Delhi on December 13, 2001, Bali on October 12, 2002, London on July 7, 2005, and Mumbai on November 26, 2008, civil or political unrest and military hostilities in Sri Lanka and other acts of violence or war, including those involving India, Sri Lanka, the United States, the United Kingdom or other countries, may adversely affect U.S., U.K. and worldwide financial markets. Prospective clients may wish to visit several of our facilities, including our global delivery centers in India or Sri Lanka, prior to reaching a decision on vendor selection. Terrorist threats, attacks and international conflicts could make travel more difficult and cause potential clients to delay, postpone or cancel decisions to use our services. In addition, such attacks may have an adverse impact on our ability to operate effectively and interrupt lines of communication and restrict our offshore resources from traveling onsite to client locations, effectively curtailing our ability to deliver our services to our clients. These obstacles may increase our expenses and negatively affect our operating results. In addition, military activity, terrorist attacks, political tensions between India and Pakistan and, historically, conflicts within Sri Lanka, despite the current cessation of hostilities, could create a greater perception that the acquisition of services from companies with significant Indian or Sri Lankan operations involves a higher degree of risk that could adversely affect client confidence in India or Sri Lanka as a software development center, each of which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our net income may decrease if the governments of the United States, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, India, Sri Lanka, Germany, Singapore, Sweden or Hungary adjust the amount of our taxable income by challenging our transfer pricing policies.. Our subsidiaries conduct intercompany transactions among themselves and with the U.S. parent company on an arm's-length basis in accordance with U.S. and local country transfer pricing regulations. The jurisdictions in which we operate could challenge our determination of arm's-length profit and issue tax assessments. Although the United States has income tax treaties with most countries in which we have operations, which should alleviate the risk of double taxation, the costs to appeal any such tax assessment and potential interest and penalties could decrease our earnings and cash flows.. The Indian taxing authorities issued assessment orders for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2004 to March 31, 2014 of our Indian subsidiary, Virtusa (India) Private Limited, now merged with and into our affiliate, Virtusa Consulting Services Private Limited and Virtusa Software Services Private Limited (referred to as \"Virtusa India\"). At issue in these assessments were several matters, the most significant of which was the redetermination of the arm's-length profit related to intercompany transactions. For fiscal year ended March 31, 2004 and 2005, we contested both assessments and also filed appeals with Indian tax authorities and U.S. Competent Authorities. Although we have settled certain tax obligations for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2004 and 2005, we have appealed certain other tax related matters affecting our fiscal year ended March 31, 2004 and 2005 with the Indian tax authorities. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005, we have appealed the redetermination of arm length pricing for transactions with our U.K. subsidiary. Although we have successfully resolved some issues we continue to appeal several other fiscal years' assessments with the Indian tax authorities. If we do not prevail in our appeals, we may incur an additional legal liability and obligations to pay additional interest, penalties and costs related to such matters.. 46. Table of Contents. Our net income may decrease if the governments of India or Sri Lanka levy new taxes or reduce or withdraw tax benefits and other incentives provided to us.. Virtusa India is an export-oriented company under the Indian Income Tax Act of 1961 and is entitled to claim tax exemption for each Software Technology Park (\"STP\"), which it operates. Virtusa India historically has operated STPs in Hyderabad and in Chennai. The income tax benefits of the STP in Hyderabad and Chennai expired on March 31, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Historically, however, substantially all of the earnings of both STPs qualified as tax- exempt export profits. Although we believe we have complied with and were eligible for the STP holidays, the government of India may deem us ineligible for the STP holiday or make adjustments to the profit level in previous tax years, subject to the applicable statute of limitations, which could result in additional legal liability, including obligations to pay additional taxes, penalties, interest and other costs arising out of such matter. For instance, the Indian taxing authorities issued an assessment order for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007 against Virtusa India related to the denial of all STP benefits for our Chennai STP on the basis that the STP was formed by the splitting up or the reconstruction of our Hyderabad STP. This matter is currently pending before the High Court of Hyderabad. We have filed appeals with the appropriate Indian tax authorities to appeal other years. We may incur additional legal liability and obligations to pay additional interest, penalties and costs related to such matter. We have appealed such assessments but we can make no assurance that our appeals will be successful.. We have located most of our Indian operations in areas designated as a SEZ, under the SEZ Act of 2005. In particular, we are continuing our build out of a facility on a 6.3 acre parcel of land in Hyderabad, India that has been designated as a SEZ. In addition, we have leased space and operate in SEZ designated locations in Bangalore, Pune and Chennai, India. Although our profits from the SEZ operations would be eligible for certain income tax exemptions for a period up to 15 years, we may not be able to take full advantage of the tax holidays in each SEZ if we are not able to grow our operations, including the hiring of IT professionals into the SEZ facilities, and there is no guarantee that we will secure SEZ status for any other future locations in India. Additionally, the government of India may deem us ineligible for a SEZ holiday or make adjustments to the transfer pricing profit levels resulting in an overall increase in our effective tax rate.. In addition, our Sri Lankan subsidiary, Virtusa Private Ltd. (\"Virtusa SL\"), was approved as an export computer software developer by the BOI in 1998 and has been granted a tax holiday. Virtusa SL has negotiated various extensions and new arrangements of the original holiday period in exchange for further capital investments in Sri Lanka facilities. The most recent 12-year tax holiday agreement, which is set to expire on March 31, 2019, requires that we meet certain new job creation, retention and investment criteria. As of March 31, 2018, we believe we have met the job creation target. We have submitted the required details to BOI and are awaiting their confirmation. At March 31, 2018, we were eligible for the entire 12-year tax holiday. Further, the Sri Lankan Department of Inland Revenue has challenged the eligibility of the initial year of our granted tax holiday. This challenge was affirmed by the Tax Appeals Commission based on their judgment that we did not meet the required investment commitments. However, during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, we received notice from the BOI certifying the tax holiday for all previously claimed years, including the initial year under challenge. If any such tax assessment were ruled against us, such a ruling may materially harm our business, operating results, and financial results and materially reduce our profitability.. Wage pressures and increases in government mandated benefits in India and Sri Lanka may reduce our profit margins.. Wage costs in India and Sri Lanka have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the United States and Europe for comparably-skilled professionals. However, wages in India and Sri Lanka are increasing, which will result in increased costs for IT professionals, particularly project managers and other mid-level professionals. We may need to increase the levels of our team member compensation more. 47. Table of Contents. rapidly than in the past to remain competitive without the ability to make corresponding increases to our billing rates. Compensation increases may reduce our profit margins, make us less competitive in pricing potential projects against those companies with lower cost resources and otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. In addition, we contribute to benefit funds covering our employees in India and Sri Lanka as mandated by the Indian and Sri Lankan governments. Benefits are based on the team members' years of service and compensation. If the governments of India and/or Sri Lanka were to legislate increases to the benefits required under these plans or mandate additional benefits, our profitability and cash flows would be reduced.. Our facilities are at risk of damage by earthquakes, tsunamis, flooding and climate change induced natural disasters. In December 2004, Sri Lanka and India were struck by multiple tsunamis that devastated certain areas of both countries. Our Indian and Sri Lankan facilities are also located in regions that are susceptible to tsunamis. Flooding and other natural disasters related to climate change may increase the risk of disruption of information systems and telephone services for sustained periods. In the recent past, Chennai and Sri Lanka have both been affected by floods. In December 2015, Chennai, India suffered one of the worst flooding and rains in the history of Chennai which shut down our facilities, had a negative impact on our operations and client engagements, and triggered our business continuity plans where we tried to mitigate the impact to our clients, employees and our business. In 2016 and 2017, Sri Lanka was affected by floods, which did not impact our operations directly, but did impact our employees. Damage or destruction that interrupts our ability to deliver our services could damage our relationships with our clients and may cause us to incur substantial additional expenses to repair or replace damaged equipment or facilities. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all such expenses. Furthermore, we may be unable to secure such insurance coverage or to secure such insurance coverage at premiums acceptable to us in the future. Prolonged disruption of our services as a result of natural disasters may cause our clients to terminate their contracts with us and may result in project delays, project cancellations and loss of substantial revenue to us. Prolonged disruptions may also harm our team members or cause them to relocate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The laws of India and Sri Lanka do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as those of the United States and we may be unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property rights. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights may result in loss of clients and increased competition.. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary methodologies, trade secrets and other intellectual property. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, non-disclosure agreements, other contractual arrangements and copyright, patent, and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights. However, existing laws of India and Sri Lanka do not provide protection of intellectual property rights to the same extent as provided in the United States. The steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Thus, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Our competitors may be able to imitate or duplicate our services or methodologies. The unauthorized use or duplication of our intellectual property could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and team members, reduce our revenue and increase our costs and expenses. We may need to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could be extremely time-consuming and costly and could materially adversely impact our business.. 48. Table of Contents. Risks related to our common stock. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly.. The market price of our common stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility as a result of variations between our actual and anticipated financial results, announcements by us and our competitors, projections or speculation about our business or that of our competitors by the media or investment analysts or uncertainty about current global economic conditions. The stock market, as a whole, also has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of the common stock of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to such companies' operating performance. Furthermore, we believe the market price of our common stock should reflect future growth and profitability expectations. If we fail to meet these expectations, the market price of our common stock may significantly decline.. In addition, there are many other factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, including:. <U+0095> actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results, including fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates or acquisitions by us, or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us    <U+0095> deterioration and decline in general economic, industry and/or market conditions    <U+0095> announcements of technological innovations or new services by us or our competitors    <U+0095> changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by market analysts    <U+0095> announcements by us or our competitors of significant projects, contracts, acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures     <U+0095> changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt     <U+0095> regulatory developments in the United States, the United Kingdom, India, Sri Lanka or other countries in which we operate or have clients     <U+0095> litigation involving our company, our general industry or both    <U+0095> additions or departures of key team members    <U+0095> investors' general perception of us    <U+0095> changes in the market valuations of other IT service providers. If any of the foregoing occurs or continues to occur, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to securities class action litigation. Any securities class action litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management's attention and resources. Many of these factors are beyond our control.. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may prevent or delay a change of control of us and could also limit the market price of our common stock.. Certain provisions of Delaware law and of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us, even if such a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders or result in a premium for your shares of our common stock. These provisions may also. 49. Table of Contents. prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include:. <U+0095> a classified board of directors    <U+0095> limitations on the removal of directors    <U+0095> advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations    <U+0095> the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings    <U+0095> the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions that are contained in our certificate of incorporation. In addition, our board of directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Also, absent approval of our board of directors, our by-laws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote.. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits business combination transactions with stockholders of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock that our board of directors has not approved. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if some stockholders may consider the transaction beneficial to them.. These provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions might also discourage a potential acquisition proposal or tender offer, even if the acquisition proposal or tender offer is at a premium over the then current market price for our common stock."
