[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. We operate in a rapidly changing business environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. The following discussion addresses risks and uncertainties that could cause, or contribute to causing, our actual results to differ from our expectations in material ways. These risks and uncertainties, or other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The trading price of our common stock could also decline due to any of these risks. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and the financial statements and related notes included in Part II, Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" of this Annual Report.. Competition in our industry may hinder our ability to execute our business strategy, achieve profitability or maintain relationships with existing customers.. We operate in a highly competitive industry and we compete against other manufacturers that have well-established brand names and strong market positions. Significant competitors in the outdoor sporting market include Amer Sports, Johnson Outdoors, and Thule Group. Significant accessories competitors include major optics companies Nikon and Vortex and hydration system competitors including Hydro Flask, Contigo, and Nalgene. Significant ammunition competitors include Remington Arms, Winchester Ammunition of Olin Corporation, and various smaller manufacturers and importers, including Black Hills Ammunition, CBC Group, Fiocchi Ammunition, Hornady, PMC, Rio Ammunition, and Wolf. Significant firearms competitors include Marlin, Mossberg, Remington Arms, Ruger, Smith and Wesson, and Winchester.. Competition in the markets in which we operate is based on a number of factors, including price, quality, product innovation, performance, reliability, styling, product features and warranties, as well as sales and marketing programs. Competition could cause price reductions, reduced profits or losses or loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Certain of our competitors may be more diversified than us or may have financial and marketing resources that are substantially greater than ours, which may allow them to invest more heavily in intellectual property, product development and advertising. Since many of our competitors also source their products from third parties, our ability to obtain a cost advantage through sourcing is reduced.. Certain of our competitors may be willing to reduce prices and accept lower profit margins to compete with us. Further, retailers often demand that suppliers reduce their prices on mature products, which could lead to lower margins.. Internationally, our products typically face more competition where foreign competitors manufacture and market products in their respective countries. This allows those competitors to sell products at lower prices, which could adversely affect our competitiveness. In addition, our products compete with many other sporting and recreational products for the discretionary spending of consumers. Failure to effectively compete with these other competitors or alternative products could have a material adverse effect on our performance.. Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate unexpectedly from quarter-to-quarter, which may cause our stock price to decline.. Our revenues and results of operations have varied significantly in the past and may vary significantly in the future due to various factors, including, but not limited to:. •  market acceptance of our products and services;. •  the timing of large domestic and international orders;. •  cancellation of existing orders;. •  the outcome of any existing or future litigation;. •  adverse publicity surrounding our products, the safety of our products or the use of our products;. •  changes in our sales mix;. •  new product introduction costs;. 13. Table of Contents. •  complexity in our integrated supply chain;. •  increased raw material expenses;. •  changes in amount and/or timing of our operating expenses; and. •  changes in laws and regulations that may affect the marketability of our products.. As a result of these and other factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful in the short term, and our performance in a particular period may not be indicative of our performance in any future period.. Our results of operations could be materially harmed if we are unable to forecast demand for our products accurately.. We often schedule internal production and place orders for products with third party suppliers before receiving firm orders from our customers. If we fail to accurately forecast customer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of products to deliver to our customers. Factors that could affect our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products include:. •  an increase or decrease in consumer demand for our products or for the products of our competitors;. •  our failure to accurately forecast customer acceptance of new products;. •  new product introductions by competitors;. •  changes in our relationships with customers;. •  changes in general market conditions or other factors, which may result in cancellations of orders or a reduction or increase in the rate of reorders placed by retailers;. •  changes in laws and regulations governing the activities for which we sell products, such as hunting and shooting sports;. •  weak economic conditions or consumer confidence, which could reduce demand for discretionary items such as our products; and. •  the domestic political environment, including debate over the regulation of firearms, ammunition and related products.. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we underestimate demand for our products, our manufacturing facilities or third party suppliers may not be able to create products to meet customer demand, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products and lost revenues, as well as damage to our reputation and customer relationships. We may not be able to manage inventory levels successfully to meet future order and reorder requirements.. Our sales are highly dependent on purchases by several large retail customers, and we may be adversely affected by the loss of, or any significant decline in sales to, one or more of these customers.. The U.S. retail industry serving the outdoor recreation market has become relatively concentrated. Sales to the top ten retail customers accounted for approximately 37% of our consolidated net sales in the fiscal year 2018. Further consolidation in the U.S. retail industry could increase the concentration of our retail store customer base in the future.. Although we have long-established relationships with many of our retail customers, as is typical in the markets in which we compete, we do not have long-term purchase agreements with our customers. As such, we are dependent on individual purchase orders. As a result, these retail customers would be able to cancel their orders, change purchase quantities from forecast volumes, delay purchases, change other terms of our business relationship or cease to purchase our products entirely. The loss of any one or more of our retail customers or significant or numerous cancellations, reductions, delays in purchases or changes in business practices by our retail customers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results. 14. Table of Contents. of operations including but not limited to reductions in sales volumes and profits, inability to collect receivables, and increases in inventory levels.. We rely on Orbital ATK for certain of our ammunition products.. We currently have agreements with a subsidiary of Orbital ATK pursuant to which such subsidiary will manufacture and supply certain of our requirements for ammunition products. Pursuant to an ammunition agreement that is effective for the period from February 10, 2018, through September 30, 2020, Orbital ATK has the option to sell ammunition products to other commercial customers under certain circumstances at a price not lower than the price it offers to us.. The ability of Orbital ATK to sell small-caliber ammunition products manufactured at its Lake City plant to any customer, including the U.S. Department of Defense may create an incentive for us to place a large advance order. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may not be able to renew our agreements with Orbital ATK beyond their term, we may be adversely impacted by the terms provided in the agreements with Orbital ATK and we may not be able to source ammunition products from another supplier on favorable terms or at all. If we fail to maintain an adequate supply of ammunition products, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.. Significant supplier capacity constraints, supplier production disruptions, supplier quality issues or price increases could increase our operating costs and adversely impact the competitive positions of our products.. Our reliance on third party suppliers for various product components and finished goods exposes us to volatility in the availability, quality and price of these product components and finished goods. A disruption in deliveries from our third party suppliers, capacity constraints, production disruptions, price increases or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. Quality issues experienced by third party suppliers can also adversely affect the quality and effectiveness of our products and result in liability and reputational harm.. We may need to raise additional capital, and we cannot be sure that additional financing will be available.. We will need to fund our ongoing working capital, capital expenditure and financing requirements through cash flows from operations and new sources of financing. Our ability to obtain future financing will depend on, among other things, our financial condition and results of operations as well as on the condition of the capital markets or other credit markets at the time we seek financing. Increased volatility and disruptions in the financial markets could make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain financing. We cannot assure you that we will have access to the capital markets or other credit markets on terms we find acceptable or at all.. The terms of the agreements governing our debt restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to incur debt that we may need to fund initiatives in response to changes in our business, the industries in which we operate, the economy and governmental regulations.. We face risks relating to our international business that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our ability to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets and to capitalize on growth in existing and new international markets is subject to risks associated with our doing business internationally, including:. •  issues related to managing international operations;. •  potentially adverse tax developments;. •  lack of sufficient protection for intellectual property in some countries;. •  currency exchange;. •  import and export controls;. 15. Table of Contents. •  social, political and economic instability in the countries in which we operate;. •  local laws and regulations, including those governing labor, product safety and environmental protection;. •  changes to international treaties and regulations; and. •  limitations on our ability to efficiently repatriate cash from our foreign operations.. Any one or more of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other applicable anti-corruption legislation, as well as export controls and trade sanctions, could result in fines or criminal penalties.. The international nature of our business exposes us to trade sanctions and other restrictions imposed by the United States and other governments. The U.S. Departments of Justice, Commerce, Treasury and other agencies and authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against companies for violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"), export controls, anti-boycott provisions and other federal statutes, sanctions and regulations and, increasingly, similar or more restrictive foreign laws, rules and regulations, which may also apply to us. In recent years, U.S. and foreign governments have increased their oversight and enforcement activities with respect to these laws and we expect the relevant agencies to continue to increase their enforcement efforts.. In foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the FCPA, or the laws and regulations of other countries, such as the UK Bribery Act. We maintain a policy/Our Code of Business Ethics prohibiting such business practices. Nevertheless, we remain subject to the risk that one or more of our associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such U.S. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations. Any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could adversely affect our business or financial performance and our reputation.. In addition, protectionist trade legislation in either the United States or foreign countries, including changes in the current tariff structures, export or import compliance laws, or other trade policies, could reduce our ability to sell our products in foreign markets, the ability of foreign customers to purchase our products, and our ability to import components, parts, and products from foreign suppliers. The President of the United States has proposed significant changes in trade policies, including tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the United States and other countries where we source many of the products we sell. Potential changes which are being contemplated include the renegotiation or termination of trade agreements and the imposition of higher tariffs on imports into the United States.  Any such actions could increase the cost to us of such merchandise (whether imported directly or indirectly) and cause increases in the prices at which we sell such merchandise to our customers, which could materially adversely affect the financial performance of our business.. By virtue of these laws and regulations we may be obliged to limit our business activities, we may incur costs for compliance programs and we may be subject to enforcement actions or penalties for noncompliance. A violation of these laws, sanctions or regulations could result in restrictions on our exports, civil and criminal fines or penalties and could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Seasonality and weather conditions may cause our results of operations to vary from quarter to quarter.. Because many of the products we sell are used for seasonal outdoor sporting activities, our results of operations may be significantly impacted by unseasonable weather conditions. For example, our winter sport accessories sales are dependent on cold winter weather and snowfall, and can be negatively impacted by unseasonably warm or dry weather. Conversely, sales of our spring products and summer products, such as golf accessories, can be adversely impacted by unseasonably cold or wet weather. Accordingly, our sales results and financial condition will typically suffer when weather patterns do not conform to seasonal norms.. Sales of our hunting accessories are highest during the months of August through December due to shipments around the fall hunting season and holidays. In addition, sales of our ammunition have historically been lower in our first fiscal quarter. The seasonality of our sales may change in the future. Seasonal variations in our results of operations may reduce our cash on hand, increase our inventory levels and extend our accounts receivable collection periods. This in turn may cause us to increase our debt levels and interest expense to fund our working capital requirements.. 16. Table of Contents. Our success depends upon our ability to introduce new compelling products into the marketplace and respond to customer preferences.. Our efforts to introduce new products into the marketplace may not be successful, and any new products that we introduce may not result in customer or market acceptance. We both develop and source new products that we believe will match customer preferences. The development of new products is a lengthy and costly process and may not result in the development of a successful product. In addition, the sourcing of our products is dependent, in part, on our relationships with our third party suppliers. If we are unable to maintain these relationships, we may not be able to continue to source products at competitive prices that both meet our standards and appeal to our customers. Failure to develop or source and introduce new products that consumers want to buy could decrease our sales, operating margins and market share and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Even if we are able to develop or source new products, our efforts to introduce new products may be costly and ineffective. When introducing a new product, we incur expenses and expend resources to market, promote and sell the new product. New products that we introduce into the marketplace may be unsuccessful or may achieve success that does not meet our expectations for a variety of reasons, including failure to predict market demand, delays in introduction, unfavorable cost comparisons with alternative products and unfavorable performance. Significant expenses related to new products that prove to be unsuccessful for any reason will adversely affect our results of operations.. Customer preferences include the choice of shopping channel. We may not be able to successfully respond to shifting preferences of the end consumer from brick and mortar retail to online retail. Our efforts to introduce new sales channels to respond to such a shift may be costly and ineffective.. Some of our products contain licensed, third party technology that provides important product functionality and features. The loss or inability to obtain any such license could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our products may contain technology licensed from third parties that provides important product functionality and features. We cannot assure you that we will have continued access to this technology. For example, if the licensing company ceases to exist, either from bankruptcy, dissolution or purchase by a competitor, we may lose access to important third party technology and may not be able to obtain replacement technology on favorable terms or at all. In addition, legal actions, such as intellectual property actions, brought against the licensing company could impact our future access to the technology. Any of these actions could negatively impact our technology licensing, thereby reducing the functionality and features of our products, and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We manufacture and sell products that create exposure to potential product liability, warranty liability or personal injury claims and litigation.. Some of our products are used in applications and situations that involve risk of personal injury and death. Our products expose us to potential product liability, warranty liability or personal injury claims and litigation relating to the use or misuse of our products including allegations of defects in manufacturing, defects in design, a failure to warn of dangers inherent in the product or activities associated with the product, negligence and strict liability. If successful, such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Defects in our products could reduce demand for our products and result in a decrease in sales and market acceptance and damage to our reputation.. Complex components and assemblies used in our products may contain undetected defects that are subsequently discovered at any point in the life of the product. In addition, we obtain many of our products and component parts from third party suppliers and may not be able to detect defects in such products or component parts until after they are sold. Defects in our products may result in a loss of sales, recall expenses, delay in market acceptance and damage to our reputation and increased warranty costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Although we maintain product liability insurance in amounts that we believe are reasonable, we may not be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, in the future and product liability claims may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage. In addition, our reputation may be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful, including potential negative publicity about our products.. 17. Table of Contents. We are subject to extensive regulation and could incur fines, penalties and other costs and liabilities under such requirements.. Like other global manufacturers and distributors of consumer products, we are required to comply with a wide variety of federal, state and international laws, rules and regulations, including those related to consumer products and consumer protection, advertising and marketing, labor and employment, data protection and privacy, intellectual property, the environmental, the import and export of products, and tax. See Item 1 \"Business-Regulatory Matters\" for a description of the various laws and regulations our business is subject to.  Our failure to comply with applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations may result in our being subject to claims, lawsuits, fines and adverse publicity that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. These laws, rules and regulations currently impose significant compliance requirements on our business, and more restrictive laws, rules and regulations may be adopted in the future.. Changes in government policies and firearms legislation could adversely affect our financial results.. The sale, purchase, ownership and use of firearms are subject to numerous and varied federal, state and local governmental regulations. Federal laws governing firearms include the National Firearms Act, the Federal Firearms Act, the Arms Export Control Act and the Gun Control Act of 1968. These laws generally govern the manufacture, import, export, sale and possession of firearms and ammunition. We hold all necessary licenses to legally sell firearms and ammunition in the United States.. Currently, some members of the federal legislature and several state legislatures are considering additional legislation relating to the regulation of firearms and ammunition. These proposed bills are extremely varied. If enacted, such legislation could effectively ban or severely limit the sale of affected firearms or ammunition. In addition, if such restrictions are enacted and are incongruent, we could find it difficult, expensive or impractical to comply with them, which could impede new product development and the distribution of existing products. We cannot assure you that the regulation of our business activities will not become more restrictive in the future and that any such restriction will not have a material adverse effect on our business.. If our efforts to protect the security of personal information about our customers and consumers are unsuccessful and unauthorized access to that personal information is obtained, or we experience a significant disruption in our computer systems or a cyber security breach, we could experience an adverse effect on our operations, we could be subject to costly government enforcement action and private litigation and our reputation could suffer.. Our operations, especially our retail operations, involve the storage and transmission of our customers' and consumers' proprietary information, such as credit card and bank account numbers, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, government enforcement action and litigation and possible liability. Our payment services may be susceptible to credit card and other payment fraud schemes, including unauthorized use of credit cards, debit cards or bank account information, identity theft or merchant fraud.. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to our customers' and consumers' data, our reputation may be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the public perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose customers and consumers, which could adversely affect our business.. We also rely extensively on our computer systems to manage our ordering, pricing, inventory replenishment and other processes. Our systems could be subject to damage or interruption from various sources, including power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber security breaches, vandalism, severe weather conditions, catastrophic events and human error, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. If our systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and we may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We are exposed to risks associated with acquisitions, which could adversely affect our future financial results.. Our business strategy includes growth through acquisitions or other transactions. We have completed four strategic acquisitions since the Spin-Off. Acquisitions involve a number of risks. The expected benefits of any future acquisitions or. 18. Table of Contents. other transactions may not be realized. Costs could be incurred on pursuits or proposed acquisitions that may never close that could significantly impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Additionally, after any acquisition, unforeseen issues and/or costs that could arise that adversely affect our anticipated returns or that are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. Even after careful integration efforts, actual results of operations may vary significantly from initial estimates due to a variety of factors, including general economic conditions affecting the market for our products.. Furthermore if, due to declining market conditions or other factors, we determine that the carrying value of the goodwill or other intangible assets associated with an acquired business exceeds the fair value of such assets, we may be required to record a significant impairment charge in the period during which such determination was made, which would negatively affect our results of operations. For example, in fiscal 2018 we recorded an impairment to the goodwill and identifiable intangible assets related to the Hunting and Shooting Accessories and Sports Protection reporting units.. We may engage in other strategic business transactions. Such transactions could result in unanticipated costs and difficulties, may not achieve intended results and may require significant time and attention from management, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Risks may also include potential delays in adopting our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures, greater than anticipated costs and expenses related to the integration of the acquired business with our business, potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired company, challenges inherent in effectively managing an increased number of employees in diverse locations and the challenge of creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies, and information systems. These and other risks relating to our acquisitions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our business is highly dependent upon our brand recognition and reputation, and the failure to maintain or enhance our brand recognition or reputation would likely have an adverse effect on our business.. Our brand recognition and reputation are critical aspects of our business. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brands as well as our reputation are critical to retaining existing customers and attracting new customers. We also believe that the importance of our brand recognition and reputation will continue to increase as competition in the markets in which we compete continues to develop.. Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our advertising, promotion, public relations and marketing programs. These brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue and the effectiveness of these activities will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to:. •  determine the appropriate creative message, media mix and markets for advertising, marketing and promotional initiatives and expenditures;. •  identify the most effective and efficient level of spending in each market, medium and specific media vehicle; and. •  effectively manage marketing costs, including creative and media expenses, in order to maintain acceptable customer acquisition costs.. If we implement new marketing and advertising strategies, we may utilize marketing and advertising channels with significantly higher costs than our current channels, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Implementing new marketing and advertising strategies could also increase the risk of devoting significant capital and other resources to endeavors that do not prove to be cost effective. We also may incur marketing and advertising expenses significantly in advance of the time we anticipate recognizing revenue associated with such expenses, and our marketing and advertising expenditures may not generate sufficient levels of brand awareness or result in increased revenue. Even if our marketing and advertising expenses result in increased revenue, the increase in revenue might not offset our related marketing and advertising expenditures. If we are unable to maintain our marketing and advertising channels on cost-effective terms or replace or supplement existing marketing and advertising channels with similarly or more cost-effective channels, our marketing and advertising expenses could increase substantially, our customer base could be adversely affected and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely impacted.. In addition, certain of our products and brands benefit from endorsements and support from particular sporting enthusiasts, athletes or other celebrities, and those products and brands may become personally associated with those. 19. Table of Contents. individuals. As a result, sales of the endorsed products could be materially and adversely affected if any of those individuals' images, reputations or popularity were to be negatively impacted.. Use of social media to disseminate negative commentary and boycotts may adversely impact our business.. There has been a substantial increase in the use of social media platforms, including blogs, social media websites, and other forms of Internet-based communications, which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. Negative commentary regarding us or our brands may be posted on social media platforms at any time and may have an adverse impact on our reputation, business, or relationships with third parties, including suppliers, customers, investors, and lenders. Consumers value readily available information and often act on such information without further investigation and without regard to its accuracy or context. The harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction.. Social media platforms also provide users with access to such a broad audience that collective action, such as boycotts, can be more easily organized. Such actions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and or cash flows.. Further, we serve the outdoor sports and recreation markets through a diverse portfolio of over 50 brands that appeal to a broad range of end consumers. The perspectives of the broad range of consumers we serve are varied and can cause conflict across brands. For example, in the wake of tragic shootings at the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida in February 2018, a campaign was launched on social media seeking the boycott of certain Outdoor Products brands because of their association with the Company and its brands that operate in the shooting sports industry. Certain of our retail and distributor partners publicly indicated that they would delay future orders of some products in our Outdoor Products segment because of the association with some of our Shooting Sports brands.. We may incur substantial litigation costs to protect our intellectual property, and if we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may lose our competitive advantage. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which could cause us to incur litigation costs and divert management attention from our business.. Our future success depends in part upon our ability to protect our intellectual property. Our protective measures, including patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret protection and internet identity registrations, may prove inadequate to protect our proprietary rights and market advantage. The right to stop others from misusing our trademarks and service marks in commerce depends, to some extent, on our ability to show evidence of enforcement of our rights against such misuse in commerce. Our failure to stop the misuse by others of our trademarks and service marks, may lead to our loss of trademark and service mark rights, brand loyalty and notoriety among our customers and prospective customers. The scope of any patent to which we have or may obtain rights may not prevent others from developing and selling competing products. In addition, our patents may be held invalid upon challenge, or others may claim rights in, or ownership of, our patents. Moreover, we may become subject to litigation with parties that claim, among other matters, that we infringed their patents or other intellectual property rights. The defense and prosecution of patent and other intellectual property claims are both costly and time-consuming, and could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial position.. Also, any intellectual property infringement claims against us, with or without merit, could be costly and time-consuming to defend and divert our management's attention from our business. If our products were found to infringe a third party's proprietary rights, we could be forced to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements in order to be able to continue to sell our products or discontinue use of the protected technology. Such royalty and licensing agreements may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Rights holders may demand payment for past infringements or force us to accept costly license terms or discontinue use of protected technology or works of authorship.. We may become involved in litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Other companies, including our competitors, may develop intellectual property that is similar or superior to our intellectual property, duplicate our intellectual property or design around our patents, and may have or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that would prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products. Effective intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries in which we sell products or from which competing products may be sold.. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise use aspects of our intellectual property and products that we regard as proprietary. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad may prove to be inadequate, and competitors may be able to develop similar intellectual property independently. If our intellectual property protection is insufficient to protect our intellectual property rights, we could face increased competition in the markets for our products.. 20. Table of Contents. Should any of our competitors file patent applications or obtain patents that claim inventions also claimed by us, we may choose to participate in an interference proceeding to determine the right to a patent for these inventions because our business would be harmed if we fail to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights. Even if the outcome is favorable, this proceeding could result in substantial costs to us and disrupt our business.. In the future, we also may need to file lawsuits to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Shortages of, and price increases for, components, parts, raw materials and other supplies may delay or reduce our sales and increase our costs, thereby harming our results of operations.. Although we manufacture many of the components for our products, we purchase from third parties some important components and parts, including but not limited to bolt carriers, rifle receivers, magazines, barrels, rifle stocks and bulk gun powder. The costs of these components and parts are affected by commodity prices and are, therefore, subject to price volatility caused by weather, market conditions and other factors that are not predictable or within our control. We also use numerous commodity materials in producing and testing our products, including copper, zinc, steel, wood, lead, and plastics. We cannot assure you that commodity prices will not increase, and any such increase in commodity prices may harm our results of operations.. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of components, parts, raw materials and other supplies from independent sources necessary for the production of our products could result in reduced or delayed sales or lost orders. Any delay in or loss of sales or orders could adversely impact our results of operations. Many of the components, parts, raw materials and other supplies used in the production of our products are available only from a limited number of suppliers. We do not have long-term supply contracts with some of these suppliers. As a result, we could be subject to increased costs, supply interruptions or orders and difficulties in obtaining materials. Our suppliers also may encounter difficulties or increased costs in obtaining the materials necessary to produce their products that we use in our products. The time lost in seeking and acquiring new sources could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Increases in commodity costs would increase our operating costs and could have an adverse effect on our earnings.. Higher prices for electricity, natural gas, metals, and fuel increase our production and shipping costs. A significant shortage, increased prices or interruptions in the availability of these commodities would increase the costs of producing and delivering products to our customers, and would be likely to negatively affect our earnings. Commodity costs have varied significantly during recent fiscal years and remain a volatile element of our costs.. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business.. A disruption or failure of our systems or operations in the event of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services or performing other mission-critical functions. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and our results of operations.. In addition, damage or disruption to our manufacturing and distribution capabilities or those of our suppliers because of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could impair our ability or our suppliers' ability to manufacture or sell our products. In addition, failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain.. Some of our products involve the manufacture or handling of a variety of explosive and flammable materials. From time to time, these activities have resulted in incidents that have temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupted some manufacturing processes, causing production delays and resulting in liability for workplace injuries and fatalities. We have safety and loss prevention programs that require detailed pre-construction reviews of process changes and new operations, along with routine safety audits of operations involving explosive materials, to mitigate such incidents, as well as a variety of insurance policies. We cannot assure you, however, that we will not experience similar incidents in the future or that any similar incidents will not result in production delays or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 21. Table of Contents. General economic conditions affect our results of operations.. Our revenues are affected by economic conditions and consumer confidence worldwide, but especially in the United States. In times of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to defer expenditures for discretionary items, which affects demand for our products. Moreover, our businesses are cyclical in nature, and their success is impacted by general economic conditions and specific economic conditions affecting the regions and markets we serve, the overall level of consumer confidence in the economy and discretionary income levels. Any substantial deterioration in general economic conditions that diminishes consumer confidence or discretionary income could reduce our sales and adversely affect our financial results. Moreover, declining economic conditions create the potential for future impairments of goodwill and other intangible and long-lived assets that may negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations. The impact of weak consumer credit markets, corporate restructurings, layoffs, high unemployment rates, declines in the value of investments and residential real estate, higher fuel prices and increases in federal and state taxation can also negatively affect our results of operations.. In addition, in recent periods sluggish economies and consumer uncertainty regarding future economic prospects in our key markets have had an adverse effect on the financial health of certain of our customers, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We extend credit to our customers for periods of varying duration based on an assessment of the customer's financial condition, generally without requiring collateral, which increases our exposure to the risk of uncollectable receivables. In addition, we face increased risk of order reduction or cancellation when dealing with financially ailing retailers or retailers struggling with economic uncertainty. We may reduce our level of business with customers and distributors experiencing financial difficulties and may not be able to replace that business with other customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In times of uncertain market conditions there is also increased risk of inventories which cannot be liquidated in an efficient manner and may result in excess levels of inventory remaining with the Company.. Failure to attract and retain key personnel could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our future success will depend in part on the continued service of key personnel and our ability to attract, retain and develop key managers, designers, sales and information technology professionals and others. We face intense competition for these individuals worldwide. We may not be able to attract qualified new employees or retain existing employees, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our results of operations could be impacted by unanticipated changes in tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities.. Our business operates in many locations under government jurisdictions that impose income taxes. Changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain revenues or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. In addition, audits by income tax authorities could result in unanticipated increases in our income tax expense.. Tax reform legislation was passed into law in December 2017 which fundamentally changed federal tax law and has a considerable impact on our income taxes.  Future guidance could alter our current understanding of the law and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity.. Our debt covenants may limit our ability to complete acquisitions, incur debt, make investments, sell assets, merge or complete other significant transactions.. Our Credit Agreement contains a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries and limit our ability to engage in actions that may be in our long-term best interests, including restrictions on our, and our subsidiaries', ability to:. •  incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or sell disqualified or preferred stock;. •  pay dividends on, make distributions in respect of, repurchase or redeem, capital stock;. •  make investments or acquisitions;. •  sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of certain assets;. •  create liens;. 22. Table of Contents. •  enter into sale/leaseback transactions;. •  enter into agreements restricting the ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany transfers;. •  consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our or our subsidiaries' assets;. •  enter into transactions with affiliates;. •  prepay, repurchase or redeem certain kinds of indebtedness;. •  issue or sell stock of our subsidiaries; and. •  significantly change the nature of our business.. The indenture governing our 5.875% Senior Notes due 2023 (the \"5.875% Notes\") also contains many of these same restrictions.. As a result of all of these restrictions, we may be:. •  limited in how we conduct our business and pursue our strategy;. •  unable to raise additional debt or equity financing that we may require to operate during general economic or business downturns; or. •  unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities.. A failure to comply with the covenants in the Credit Agreement could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement, which could allow our creditors to accelerate the related indebtedness and proceed against the collateral that secures the indebtedness. Similarly, a failure to comply with the covenants in the indenture governing our 5.875% Notes could result in an event of default, which could allow the holders of the 5.875% Notes to accelerate these notes. The Credit Agreement and the indenture governing the 5.875% Notes contain cross-default provisions so that noncompliance with the covenants of any of our other debt agreements could cause a default under these debt agreements as well. In the event our creditors accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we may not have sufficient liquidity to repay our indebtedness in such circumstances.. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.. A significant portion of our indebtedness consists of term loans and revolver borrowings with variable rates of interest that expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness will increase even if the amount borrowed remains the same, and our net income and cash flows will correspondingly decrease. Assuming $376 million of variable-rate indebtedness (which was the amount of such indebtedness outstanding as of April 1, 2018, taking into account our interest rate swaps), a change of 1/8 of one percent in interest rates would result in a $0.5 million change in annual estimated interest expense. Even if we enter into additional interest rate swaps in the future in order to further reduce future interest rate volatility, we may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial results.. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, approximately 23% of our revenue was generated from sales outside the United States. Revenues from foreign operations (and the related expense) is often transacted in foreign currencies or valued based on a currency other than U.S. dollars. For the purposes of financial reporting, this revenue is translated into U.S. dollars. Resulting gains and losses from foreign currency fluctuations are therefore included in our consolidated financial statements. As a result, when the U.S. dollar strengthens against certain foreign currencies, including the Euro, Australian dollar, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, and other major currencies, our reportable revenue in U.S. dollars generated from sales made in foreign currencies may decrease substantially. As a result, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 23. Table of Contents. A portion of our workforce belongs to a union. Failure to successfully negotiate or renew the collective bargaining agreement, or any strikes, slow-downs or other labor-related disruptions, could adversely affect our operations and could result in increased costs that impair our financial performance.. Approximately 5% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The largest of these agreements expires on June 30, 2020. Strikes, slow-downs or other labor-related disruptions could occur if we are unable to either negotiate or renew our collective bargaining agreement on satisfactory terms, which could adversely impact our results of operations. The terms and conditions of new or renegotiated agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency.. If the Spin-Off is found to be taxable under the Internal Revenue Code we may be obligated to indemnify Orbital ATK.. Under the Tax Matters Agreement entered into by Orbital ATK and Vista Outdoor, we were prohibited from taking actions that could reasonably be expected to cause the Spin-Off to be taxable or to jeopardize the conclusions of the opinions of counsel received by Orbital ATK. If the Spin-Off does not qualify as a tax-free spin-off under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (the \"Code\"), including as a result of subsequent acquisitions of our stock or actions taken by the Company, then we may be obligated to indemnify Orbital ATK for such taxes imposed on the combined company.. Provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, our Amended and Restated Bylaws, and Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock.. Several provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Amended and Restated Bylaws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable. These include provisions that:. •   allow our Board of Directors to authorize for issuance, without stockholder approval, preferred stock, the rights of which will be determined at the discretion of the Board of Directors and, if issued, could operate as a \"poison pill\" to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that our Board of Directors does not approve;. •  prohibit our stockholders from taking action by written consent and require that stockholder action must take place at a duly called annual or special meeting of our stockholders;. •  establish how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at meetings of our stockholders;. •  divide our Board of Directors into three classes, with each class serving a staggered three-year term, which could have the effect of making the replacement of incumbent directors more time consuming and difficult;. •  mandate that stockholders may only remove directors for cause;. •  grant exclusive privilege (subject to certain limited exceptions) to our directors, and not our stockholders, to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors;. •  provide that only our Board of Directors, Chairman of our Board of Directors, our Chief Executive Officer or the President (in the absence of the Chief Executive Officer) are entitled to call a special meeting of our stockholders; and. •  limit our ability to enter into business combination transactions with certain stockholders.. These and other provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Amended and Restated Bylaws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent certain types of transactions involving an actual or a threatened acquisition or change in control of us, including unsolicited takeover attempts, even though the transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their shares of our common stock at a price above the prevailing market price."
