[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Risks attributable to all registrants are not included below. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those not presently known or that the Company believes to be immaterial, also may adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition. Should any such risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on the Company's business and financial results.. The Company's substantial international operations make it vulnerable to risks associated with doing business in foreign countries.. The Company has manufacturing and distribution facilities in many foreign countries, including Mexico and countries in Europe, South America and Asia. International operations are subject to certain risks inherent in doing business abroad, including:. • changes to international trade agreements;. • local economic conditions, expropriation and nationalization, foreign exchange rate fluctuations and currency controls;. • withholding, border, and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries;. • investment restrictions or requirements;. • export and import restrictions, including increases in border tariffs; and. • increases in working capital requirements related to long supply chains.. In particular, if the United States withdraws from or materially modifies the North American Free Trade Agreement, or any other international trade agreement with one of the countries in which the Company operates, or implements increases in border tariffs, there could be a significantly adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. The Company has and is expected to continue to invest significantly in joint ventures with other parties to conduct business in China and elsewhere in Asia.  These investments may include manufacturing operations and technical centers as well as research and development activities to support anticipated growth in the region. If the Company is not able to strengthen existing relationships, secure additional customers and develop market-relevant advanced driver assistance and autonomous vehicle technologies, it may fail to realize expected rates of return on these investments.  The Company's ability to repatriate funds from these joint ventures depends not only upon their uncertain cash flows and profits, but also upon the terms of particular agreements with the Company's joint venture partners and maintenance of the legal and political status quo. As a result, the Company's exposure to the risks described above is substantial. The likelihood of such occurrences and its potential effect on the Company vary from country to country and are unpredictable. However, any such occurrences could be harmful to the Company's business and the Company's profitability and financial condition.. The Company must continue to develop, introduce and achieve market acceptance of new and enhanced products in order to grow its sales in the future.. The growth of the Company's business will be dependent on the demand for innovative automotive electronics products, including but not limited to advanced driver assistance and autonomous vehicle technologies. In order to increase sales in current markets and gain entry into new markets, the Company must innovate to maintain and improve existing products, including software, while successfully developing and introducing distinctive new and enhanced products that anticipate changing customer and consumer preferences and capitalize upon emerging software technologies. However, the Company may experience difficulties that delay or prevent the development, introduction or market acceptance of its new or enhanced products, or undiscovered software errors, bugs and defects in its products may injure the Company's reputation. Furthermore, these new technologies have also attracted increased competition from outside the traditional automotive industry, and any of these competitors may develop and introduce technologies that gain greater customer or consumer acceptance, which could adversely affect the future growth of the Company.. The Company's ability to effectively operate could be hindered if it fails to attract and retain key personnel.. The Company's ability to operate its business and implement its strategies effectively depends, in part, on the efforts of its executive officers and other key employees. In addition, the Company's future success will depend on, among other factors, the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, particularly engineers and other employees with critical expertise and skills that support key customers and products or in emerging regions. The loss of the services of any key employees or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. 10. Warranty claims, product liability claims and product recalls could harm the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. The Company faces the inherent business risk of exposure to warranty and product liability claims in the event that its products fail to perform as expected or such failure results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury or property damage (or both). In addition, if any of the Company's designed products are defective or are alleged to be defective, the Company may be required to participate in a recall campaign. As suppliers become more integrally involved in the vehicle design process and assume more of the vehicle assembly functions, automakers are increasingly expecting them to warrant their products and are increasingly looking to suppliers for contributions when faced with product liability claims or recalls. A successful warranty or product liability claim against the Company in excess of its available insurance coverage and established reserves, or a requirement that the Company participate in a product recall campaign, could have materially adverse effects on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. Developments or assertions by or against the Company relating to intellectual property rights could materially impact its business.. The Company owns significant intellectual property, including a number of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, and is involved in numerous licensing arrangements. The Company's intellectual property plays an important role in maintaining its competitive position in a number of the markets served. The Company may utilize intellectual property in its products that requires a license from a third-party. While the Company believes that such licenses generally can be obtained, there is no assurance that the necessary licenses can be obtained on commercially acceptable terms or at all.  Failure to obtain the right to use third-party intellectual property could preclude the Company from selling certain products and have materially adverse effects on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Developments or assertions by or against the Company relating to intellectual property rights could materially impact the Company's business. Recently, the Company has seen an increase in patent claims related to connectivity-enabled products where other patent-holding companies are seeking royalties and often enter into litigation based on patent infringement allegations. Significant technological developments by others also could materially and adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations and financial condition.. The discontinuation or loss of business, or lack of commercial success, with respect to a particular vehicle model for which the Company is a significant supplier could reduce the Company's sales and harm its profitability.. Although the Company has purchase orders from many of its customers, these purchase orders generally provide for the supply of a customer's annual requirements for a particular vehicle model and assembly plant, or in some cases, for the supply of a customer's requirements for the life of a particular vehicle model, rather than for the purchase of a specific quantity of products.   In addition, it is possible that customers could elect to manufacture components internally that are currently produced by outside suppliers, such as the Company. The discontinuation of, the loss of business with respect to or a lack of commercial success of a particular vehicle model for which the Company is a significant supplier, could reduce the Company's sales and harm the Company's profitability.. The automotive industry is cyclical and significant declines in the production levels of the Company's major customers could reduce the Company's sales and harm its profitability.. Demand for the Company's products is directly related to the automotive vehicle production of the Company's major customers.   Automotive sales and production are cyclical and can be affected by general economic or industry conditions, labor relations issues, fuel prices, regulatory requirements, government initiatives, trade agreements, the cost and availability of credit and other factors.. A disruption in the Company's information technology systems could adversely affect its business and financial performance.. The Company relies on the accuracy, capacity and security of its information technology systems as well as those of its customers, suppliers, partners, and service providers to conduct its business. Despite the security and risk-prevention measures the Company has implemented, the Company's systems could be breached, damaged or otherwise interrupted by a system failure, cyber attack, malicious computer software (malware), unauthorized physical or electronic access or other natural or man-made incidents or disasters. The Company is also susceptible to security breaches that may go undetected.  Such a breach or interruption could result in business disruption, theft of the Company intellectual property or trade secrets and unauthorized access to personnel information. To the extent that business is interrupted or data is lost, destroyed or inappropriately used or disclosed, such disruptions could adversely affect the Company's competitive position, relationships with customers, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. 11. The Company is highly dependent on Ford Motor Company and decreases in this customer's vehicle production volumes would adversely affect the Company.. Ford is one of the Company's largest ultimate customers and accounted for 28%, 30% and 34% of sales in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Accordingly, any change in Ford's vehicle production volumes may have a significant impact on the Company's sales volume and profitability.. The Company's inability to effectively manage the timing, quality and costs of new program launches could adversely affect its financial performance.. In connection with the award of new business, the Company often obligates itself to deliver new products and services that are subject to its customers' timing, performance and quality standards. Additionally, as a Tier 1 supplier, the Company must effectively coordinate the activities of numerous suppliers in order to launch programs successfully. Given the complexity of new program launches, especially involving new and innovative technologies, the Company may experience difficulties managing product quality, timeliness and associated costs. In addition, new program launches require a significant ramp up of costs; however, the sales related to these new programs generally are dependent upon the timing and success of the introduction of new vehicles by the Company's customers. The Company's inability to effectively manage the timing, quality and costs of these new program launches could adversely affect its financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. The Company's pension expense and funding levels of pension plans could materially deteriorate or the Company may be unable to generate sufficient excess cash flow to meet increased pension benefit obligations.. The Company's assumptions used to calculate pension obligations as of the annual measurement date directly impact the expense to be recognized in future periods. While the Company's management believes that these assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in these assumptions may materially affect the Company's pension obligations and future expense. For more information on sensitivities to changing assumptions, please see \"Critical Accounting Estimates\" in Item 7 and Note14 \"Employee Benefit Plans\" in Item 8 of this report.. The Company's expected annual effective tax rate could be volatile and could materially change as a result of changes in mix of earnings and other factors.. Changes in the Company's debt and capital structure, among other items, may impact its effective tax rate. The Company is in a position whereby losses incurred in certain tax jurisdictions generally provide no current financial statement benefit. In addition, certain jurisdictions have statutory rates greater than or less than the United States statutory rate. As such, changes in the mix and source of earnings between jurisdictions could have a significant impact on the Company's overall effective tax rate in future periods.  Changes in tax law and rates, changes in rules related to accounting for income taxes or adverse outcomes from tax audits that regularly are in process in any of the jurisdictions in which the Company operates could also have a significant impact on the Company's overall effective rate in future periods.. The Company may not be able to fully utilize its U.S. net operating losses and other tax attributes.. Visteon's emergence from bankruptcy in 2010 resulted in a change of ownership within the meaning of Internal Revenue Code (\"IRC\") Sections 382 and 383, causing the use of Visteon's pre-emergence U.S. federal net operating loss (\"NOL\") and various other tax attributes to be limited in the post-emergence period. However, NOLs and other tax attributes generated in the post-emergence period are generally not limited by the emergence from bankruptcy, but could be limited if there is a subsequent change of ownership. If the Company were to have another change of ownership within the meaning of IRC Sections 382 and 383, its post-emergence NOL and other tax attributes could be limited to an amount equal to its market capitalization at the time of the subsequent ownership change multiplied by the federal long-term tax exempt rate. The Company cannot provide any assurance that such an ownership change will not occur, in which case the availability of the Company's NOLs and other tax attributes could be significantly limited or possibly eliminated. Certain tax benefit preservation provisions of its corporate documents could delay or prevent a change of control, even if that change would be beneficial to stockholders.. Recent changes in the U.S. federal income tax rules could adversely affect us and our shareholders.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Act\") was signed into law, making significant changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Changes include, but are not limited to, a corporate income tax rate decrease from 35% to 21% effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, the migration from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system with a one-time transition tax on cumulative post-1986 foreign earnings, a modification of the characterization and treatment of certain intercompany transactions, and the creation of a new U.S. corporate minimum tax on certain earnings of foreign subsidiaries.. 12. The Company has reflected the necessary impact of the Act in our financial statements for 2017, the year of enactment. The Company continues to examine the impact the Act may have on its business. The impact the Act may have on holders of Visteon common stock is uncertain and could be adverse. The Company urges its shareholders to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to the Act and the potential tax consequences of investing in our common stock.. Privacy and security concerns relating to the Company's current or future products and services could damage its reputation and deter current and potential users from using them.. The Company may gain access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer-imposed controls. Concerns about the Company's practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personal information or other privacy related matters, even if unfounded, could damage its reputation and adversely affect its operating results.. Furthermore, regulatory authorities around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning cybersecurity and data protection. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in flux. Complying with these various laws could cause the Company to incur substantial costs.. Escalating price pressures from customers may adversely affect the Company's business.. Downward pricing pressures by automotive manufacturers, while characteristic of the automotive industry, are increasing.  Virtually all automakers have implemented aggressive price-reduction initiatives and objectives each year with their suppliers, and such actions are expected to continue in the future. In addition, estimating such amounts is subject to risk and uncertainties because any price reductions are a result of negotiations and other factors. Accordingly, suppliers must be able to reduce their operating costs in order to maintain profitability. The Company has taken steps to reduce its operating costs and other actions to offset customer price reductions; however, price reductions have impacted the Company's sales and profit margins and are expected to continue to do so in the future. If the Company is unable to offset customer price reductions in the future through improved operating efficiencies, new manufacturing processes, sourcing alternatives and other cost-reduction initiatives, the Company's results of operations and financial condition will likely be adversely affected.. The Company could be negatively impacted by the distress of its supplier or other shortages.. In an effort to manage and reduce the costs of purchased goods and services, the Company, like many suppliers and automakers, has been consolidating its supply base. In addition, certain materials and components used by the Company are in high demand but of limited availability. As a result, the Company is dependent on single or limited sources of supply for certain components used in the manufacture of its products. The Company selects its suppliers based on total value (including price, delivery and quality), taking into consideration production capacities and financial condition. However, there can be no assurance that strong demand, capacity limitations or other problems experienced by the Company's suppliers will not result in occasional shortages or delays in the supply of components. If the Company were to experience a significant or prolonged shortage of critical components from any of its suppliers, particularly those who are sole sources, and could not procure the components from other sources, the Company would be unable to meet its production schedules for some of its key products or to ship such products to its customers in a timely fashion, which would adversely affect sales, margins, and customer relations. Furthermore, unfavorable economic or industry conditions could result in financial distress within the Company's supply base, thereby increasing the risk of supply disruption. Although market conditions generally have improved in recent years, uncertainty remains and another economic downturn or other unfavorable industry conditions in one or more of the regions in which the Company operates could cause a supply disruption and thereby adversely affect the Company's financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Work stoppages and similar events could significantly disrupt the Company's business.. Because the automotive industry relies heavily on just-in-time delivery of components during the assembly and manufacture of vehicles, a work stoppage at one or more of the Company's manufacturing and assembly facilities could have material adverse effects on the business. Similarly, if one or more of the Company's customers were to experience a work stoppage, that customer would likely halt or limit purchases of the Company's products, which could result in the shutdown of the related manufacturing facilities. A significant disruption in the supply of a key component due to a work stoppage at one of the Company's suppliers or any other supplier could have the same consequences, and accordingly, have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial results.. 13. The Company may incur significant restructuring charges.. The Company has taken, and expects to take, restructuring actions to realign and resize its production capacity and cost structure to meet current and projected operational and market requirements. Charges related to these actions could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Moreover, there can be no assurances that any future restructuring will be completed as planned or achieve the desired results.. The Company is involved from time to time in legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes, which could have an adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial position.. The Company is involved in legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes that, from time to time, are significant.   These are typically claims that arise in the normal course of business including, without limitation, commercial or contractual disputes (including disputes with suppliers), intellectual property matters, personal injury claims and employment matters. No assurances can be given that such proceedings and claims will not have a material adverse impact on the Company's profitability and financial position.. The Company is subject to significant foreign currency risks and foreign exchange exposure.. As a result of Visteon's global presence, a significant portion of the Company's revenues and expenses is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The Company is therefore subject to foreign currency risks and foreign exchange exposure. The Company's primary exposures are to the Euro, Japanese Yen, and Chinese Renminbi. While the Company employs financial instruments to hedge transactional foreign exchange exposure, including multi-year contracts, exchange rates are difficult to predict and such actions may not insulate the Company' completely from those exposures. As a result, volatility in certain exchange rates could adversely impact Visteon financial results and comparability of results from period to period."
