[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this report, including the section of this report captioned \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and our financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks occurred, they could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors that are described below and elsewhere in this report.. Risk Related to Our Business. We need to enter into substantial additional financing arrangements to facilitate new customers' access to our solar energy systems, and if financing is not available to us on acceptable terms when needed, our ability to continue to grow our business would be materially adversely impacted.. Our future success depends on our ability to raise capital from third-party investors and commercial sources, such as banks and other lenders, on competitive terms to help finance the deployment of our solar energy systems. We seek to minimize our cost of capital in order to maintain the price competitiveness of the electricity produced by, the lease payments for and the cost of our solar energy systems. We rely on investment funds in order to provide solar energy systems with little to no upfront costs to our customers under our PPAs and Solar Leases. We also rely on access to capital to cover the costs of our solar energy systems that are sold outright until the systems are paid for by our customers, whether by cash or through third-party financing arrangements. Certain of our financing arrangements are with fund investors who require particular tax and other benefits. The availability of this tax-advantaged financing depends upon many factors, including:. •  our ability to compete with other renewable energy companies for the limited number of potential investment fund investors, each of which has limited funds and limited appetite for the tax benefits associated with these financings;. •  the state of financial and credit markets;. •  changes in the legal or tax risks associated with these financings; and. •  non-renewal of certain incentives or decreases in the associated benefits.. Moreover, potential investors seeking such tax-advantaged financing must remain satisfied that the structures we offer qualify for the tax benefits associated with solar energy systems available to these investors, which depends both on the investors' assessment of tax law and the absence of any unfavorable interpretations of that law. Changes in existing law and interpretations by the IRS, and the courts could reduce the willingness of fund investors to invest in funds associated with these solar energy system investments, or cause these investors to require a larger allocation of customer payments. We are not certain that this type of financing will continue to be available to us. If we are unable to establish new financing when needed, or upon desirable terms, to enable our customers' access to our solar energy systems, we may be unable to finance installation of our customers' systems, our cost of capital could increase or our liquidity could be constrained, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. As of February 28, 2018, we had raised 22 investment funds to which investors such as banks and other large financial investors have committed to invest approximately $1.5 billion. The undrawn committed capital for these funds as of February 28, 2018 is approximately $85 million, which we estimate will fund approximately 44 megawatts of future deployments.. The contract terms in certain of our investment fund documents impose conditions on our ability to draw on financing commitments from the fund investors, including if an event occurs that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the fund or on us. If we do not satisfy such conditions due to events related to our business or a specific investment fund or developments in our industry or otherwise, and as a result we are unable to draw on existing commitments, our inability to draw on such commitments could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and prospects. In addition to our inability to draw on the investors' commitments, we may incur financial penalties for non-performance, including delays in the installation process and interconnection to the power grid of solar energy systems and other factors. Based on the terms of the investment fund agreements, we will either reimburse a portion of the fund investor's capital or pay the fund investor a non-performance fee. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2017, we paid contractually agreed upon capital distributions of $8.4 million to reimburse fund investors a portion of their capital contributions primarily due to a delay in solar energy systems being interconnected to the power grid and other factors.. 9. To meet the capital needs of our growing business, we will need to obtain additional financing from new investors and investors with whom we currently have arrangements. If any of the financial institutions that currently provide financing decide not to invest in us in the future due to general market conditions, concerns about our business or prospects or any other reason, or decide to invest at levels that are inadequate to support our anticipated needs or materially change the terms under which they are willing to provide future financing, we will need to identify new financial institutions and companies to provide financing and negotiate new financing terms. If we are unable to raise additional capital in a timely manner, our ability to meet our capital needs and fund future growth may be limited.. In the past, we have sometimes been unable to timely establish investment funds in accordance with our plans, due in part to the relatively limited number of investors attracted to such types of funds, competition for such capital and the complexity associated with negotiating the agreements with respect to such funds. Delays in raising financing could cause us to delay expanding in existing markets or entering into new markets and hiring additional personnel. Any future delays in capital raising could similarly cause us to delay deployment of a substantial number of solar energy systems for which we have signed PPAs or Solar Leases with customers. Our future ability to obtain additional financing depends on banks' and other financing sources' continued confidence in our business model and the renewable energy industry as a whole. It could also be impacted by the liquidity needs of such financing sources themselves. We face intense competition from a variety of other companies, technologies and financing structures for such limited investment capital. If we are unable to continue to offer a competitive investment profile, we may lose access to these funds or they may only be available to us on terms that are less favorable than those received by our competitors. For example, if we experience higher customer default rates than we currently experience in our existing investment funds, it could be more difficult or costly to attract future financing. In our experience, there are a relatively small number of investors that generate sufficient profits and possess the requisite financial sophistication to benefit from and have significant demand for the tax benefits that our investment funds provide. Historically, in the distributed solar energy industry, investors have typically been large financial institutions and a few large, profitable corporations. Our ability to raise investment funds is limited by the relatively small number of such investors. Any inability to secure financing could lead us to cancel planned installations, impair our ability to accept new customers or increase our borrowing costs, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. A material reduction in the retail price of traditional utility-generated electricity or electricity from other sources or other reduction in the cost of such electricity would harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We believe that many of our customers decide to buy solar energy because they want to pay less for their energy costs. However, distributed residential solar energy has yet to achieve broad market adoption for a number of reasons including state regulatory hurdles, utility imposed interconnection issues for distributed electricity generation systems and unfavorable economics from the customer perspective.. The customer's decision to choose solar energy may also be affected by the cost of other renewable energy sources. Decreases in the retail prices of electricity from the traditional utilities or from other renewable energy sources would harm our ability to offer competitive pricing and could harm our business. The cost of electricity from traditional utilities could decrease as a result of:. •  construction of new power generation plants, including plants utilizing natural gas, nuclear, coal, renewable energy or other generation technologies;. •  the construction of additional electric transmission and distribution lines;. •  relief of transmission constraints that enable local centers to generate energy less expensively;. •  reductions in the price of natural gas or other fuel sources;. •  utility rate adjustment and customer class cost reallocation;. •  energy conservation technologies and public initiatives to reduce electricity consumption;. •  widespread deployment of existing or development of new or lower-cost energy storage technologies that have the ability to reduce a customer's average cost of electricity by shifting load to off-peak times;. •  changes in regulations by federal or state regulatory bodies that lower the cost of generating and transmitting electricity or otherwise reduce regulatory compliance costs for traditional utilities, or otherwise disadvantage residential solar energy providers relative to traditional utilities; and. •  development of new energy generation technologies that provide less expensive energy.. 10. A reduction in utility electricity costs would make PPAs or Solar Leases less economically attractive to customers on a monthly basis and would increase the time to break-even for our System Sales customers. If the cost of energy available from traditional utilities were to decrease due to any of these reasons, or other reasons, we would be at a competitive disadvantage, we may be unable to attract new customers and our growth would be limited. In addition, from time to time we have increased our pricing in certain markets, which may negatively impact our competitiveness.. Electric utility industry policies and regulations may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar energy systems that may significantly reduce demand for electricity from our solar energy systems.. Federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, utility rate structures, interconnection procedures, and internal policies of electric utilities, heavily influence the market for electricity generation products and services. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and the interconnection of distributed electricity generation systems to the power grid. Policies and regulations that promote renewable energy and customer-sited energy generation have been challenged by traditional utilities and questioned by those in government and others arguing for less governmental spending and involvement in the energy market. In addition, it is unclear what, if any, actions the current presidential administration in the United States, the U.S. Department of Energy, and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission may take regarding existing regulations and policies that affect the cost competitiveness of nuclear, coal and gas electric generation, and fossil fuel mining and exploration. Changes in such policies and regulations could increase the cost or decrease the benefits of solar energy systems, or reduce costs and other limitations on competing forms of generation, and adversely affect the attractiveness of our products and our results of operations, cost of capital and growth prospects.. In the United States, governments and the state public service commissions that determine utility rates continuously modify these regulations and policies. These regulations and policies could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for electricity from our solar energy systems and could deter customers from entering into contracts with us. In addition, in certain of our regions, electricity generated by solar energy systems competes most effectively with the most expensive retail rates for electricity from the power grid, rather than the less expensive average price of electricity. Modifications to the utilities' peak hour pricing policies or rate design, such as movement to a flat rate, would make our current products less competitive with the price of electricity from the power grid. Other regulatory revisions that could impact the competitiveness of our product include moving from a retail rate to a time-of-use compensation mechanism, imposition of fixed demand or grid-service charges, or limitations on whether third-party owned systems are eligible for such programs. For example, the California Public Utilities Commission has issued a decision that will transition residential rates over four years from a four-tiered structure to a two-tiered structure, with only a 25% differential between the two rates and a surcharge for very high energy users. It is possible that changes such as these could have the effect of lowering the incentive for residential customers of investor-owned utilities to reduce their purchases of electricity from their utility by supplying more of their own electricity from solar, and thereby reducing demand for our product. In addition, California has shifted to a time-of-use rate structure for all residential customers; Nevada and other jurisdictions are also developing time-of-use rate structures. A shift in the timing of peak rates for utility-generated electricity to a time of day when solar energy generation is less efficient or nonexistent could make our solar energy system offerings less competitive and reduce demand for our offerings. Several other states also use time-of-use rates. In addition, since we are required to obtain interconnection permission for each solar energy system from the local utility, changes in a local utility's regulations, policies or interconnection processes have in the past delayed and in the future could delay or prevent the completion of our solar energy systems. This in turn has delayed and in the future could delay or prevent us from generating revenues from such solar energy systems or cause us to redeploy solar energy systems, adversely impacting our results of operations.. 11. In addition, any changes to government or internal utility regulations and policies that favor electric utilities over residential rooftop solar energy (or that favor alternative forms of distributed energy over rooftop solar energy) could reduce our competitiveness and cause a significant reduction in demand for our offerings or increase our costs or the prices we charge our customers. Certain jurisdictions have proposed allowing traditional utilities to assess various fees on customers purchasing energy from solar energy systems or have imposed or proposed new charges or rate structures that would disproportionately impact solar energy system customers who utilize net metering, either of which would increase the cost of energy to those customers and could reduce demand for our solar energy systems. For example, in California, investor owned utilities are allowed to impose a minimum $10 fixed charge on the monthly bill for residential customers that elect net metering and also impose new fees for interconnection and other non-bypassable charges. Such non-bypassable charges are being authorized by other public utilities commissions outside of California. Additionally, certain utilities in Arizona have approved increased rates and charges for net metering customers, and others have proposed doing away with the state's renewable electricity standard carve-outs for distributed generation. Specifically, in August 2017, the Arizona Corporation Commission adopted a settlement agreement between the Arizona Public Service Company and industry stakeholders under which demand charges based on a customer's maximum average rate of energy consumed during a specified interval will be imposed on residential customers under certain rate schedules. These policy changes may negatively impact our customers and affect demand for our solar energy systems, and similar changes to net metering policies may occur in other states. It is also possible that these or other changes could be imposed on our current customers, as well as future customers. Due to the current and expected continued concentration of our solar energy systems in California, any such changes in this market would be particularly harmful to our reputation, customer relations, business, results of operations and future growth in these areas. We may be similarly adversely affected if our business becomes concentrated in other jurisdictions.. Our business currently depends on the availability of rebates, tax credits and other financial incentives. The expiration, elimination or reduction of these rebates, credits or incentives or our ability to monetize them could adversely impact our business.. Federal, state and local government and regulatory bodies provide for tariff structures and incentives to various parties including owners, end users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar energy systems to promote solar energy in various forms, including rebates, tax credits and other financial incentives such as system performance payments, renewable energy credits associated with renewable energy generation, exclusion of solar energy systems from property tax assessments and net metering. We rely on these governmental and regulatory programs to finance solar energy system installations, which enables us to lower the price we charge customers for energy from, and to lease or purchase, our solar energy systems, helping to achieve customer acceptance of solar energy with those customers as an alternative to utility-provided power. However, these programs may expire on a particular date, end when the allocated funding or capacity allocations are exhausted or be reduced or terminated. These reductions or terminations often occur without warning. For example, the Arizona Department of Revenue has previously attempted to assess and collect property taxes in the past on rooftop solar energy systems such as ours, and other jurisdictions may attempt to assess and collect property taxes in the future. In addition, the financial value of certain incentives decreases over time. For example, the value of SRECs in a market tends to decrease over time as the supply of SREC-producing solar energy systems installed in that market increases. If we overestimate the future value of these incentives, it could adversely impact our financial results.. Substantially all of our solar energy systems installed to date have been eligible for ITCs as well as accelerated depreciation benefits. We have relied on, and will continue to rely on, financing structures that monetize a substantial portion of those benefits and provide financing for our solar energy systems. The federal government currently offers a 30% ITC under Section 48(a) of the Internal Revenue Code for the installation of certain solar power facilities; the 30% rate continues until December 31, 2019. By statute, the ITC is scheduled to decrease to 26% of the fair market value of a solar energy system for 2020, 22% for 2021 and 10% on January 1, 2022, and the amounts that fund investors are willing to invest could decrease or we may be required to provide a larger allocation of customer payments to the fund investors as a result of this scheduled decrease. To the extent we have a reduced ability to raise investment funds as a result of this reduction or an inability to continue to monetize such benefits in our financing arrangements, the rate of growth of installations of our residential solar energy systems and our ability to maintain such systems could be negatively impacted. In addition, future changes in existing law and interpretations by the IRS and the courts with respect to certain matters, including but not limited to, treatment of the ITC and our financing arrangements, the taxation of business entities and the deductibility of interest expense could affect the amount that fund investors are willing to invest, which could reduce our access to capital. The ITC has been a significant driver of the financing supporting the adoption of residential solar energy systems in the United States and its scheduled reduction beginning in 2020, unless modified by an intervening change in law, will significantly impact the attractiveness of solar energy to these investors and could potentially harm our business.. 12. In addition, the recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or TCJA, contains several provisions that could significantly impact the attractiveness of tax benefits to our fund investors. The TCJA reduces the highest marginal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, which causes accelerated depreciation to have less value to investors and results in investors having less appetite for ITCs. In addition, the TCJA imposes a new \"base erosion and anti-abuse tax\", or BEAT. The BEAT is a minimum tax applied to certain large taxpayers who make deductible payments that erode their U.S. tax base above a minimum threshold. If an investor is subject to BEAT, ITCs may be used to partially, but not fully offset the BEAT, resulting in a decrease of the value of the ITCs of up to 20%. Thus, investors will likely discount their investments to reflect the lower corporate tax rate as well as the BEAT and may be less likely to invest in solar overall, which could potentially harm our business.. Applicable authorities may adjust or decrease incentives from time to time or include provisions for minimum domestic content requirements or other requirements to qualify for these incentives. An inability to finance solar energy systems through tax-advantaged structures, to realize or monetize depreciation benefits, to monetize or otherwise receive the benefit of rebates, tax credits, SRECs or other financial incentives, or to otherwise structure investment funds in ways that are both attractive to investors and allow us to provide desirable pricing to customers could adversely impact our results of operations and ability to compete in our industry by increasing our cost of capital, causing us to increase the prices of our energy and solar energy systems and reducing the size of our addressable market. In addition, this would adversely impact our ability to attract investment partners and to form new investment funds and our ability to offer attractive financing to prospective customers.. We rely on net metering and related policies to offer competitive pricing to our customers in all of our current markets, and changes to net metering policies may significantly reduce demand for electricity from our solar energy systems.. Our business benefits significantly from favorable net metering policies in states in which we operate. Net metering allows a homeowner to pay his or her local electric utility only for his or her power usage net of production from the solar energy system, transforming the conventional relationship between customers and traditional utilities. Homeowners receive credit for the energy that the solar installation generates in excess of that needed by the home to offset energy usage at times when the solar installation is not generating energy. In states that provide for net metering, the customer typically pays for the net energy used or receives a credit against future bills at the retail rate if more energy is produced by the solar installation than consumed. In some states and utility territories, customers are also reimbursed by the electric utility for net excess generation on a periodic basis.. In recent years, net metering programs have been subject to regulatory scrutiny and legislative proposals in some states, such as Arizona, California, Hawaii, Nevada, New Hampshire, New York, Texas and Utah. Utilities are proposing new and varied revisions to their net metering programs, with such proposals decided by the state public utilities commissions. These revisions include capping the numbers of customers that can elect net metering within a utility service territory, imposing new fixed charges for grid service or interconnection, and reducing the retail rate value of the net metered generation. In California, for example, customers within the service territory of San Diego Gas and Electric, Pacific Gas and Electric Company, and Southern California Edison Company, must take service on a new net metering successor tariff. For this new tariff, the California Public Utilities Commission largely uses the current net metering form with full retail compensation for exports, but allows the utilities to impose reasonable interconnection fees and some additional charges on customers, and will require such customers to take service on time-of-use rates. There are no caps under the new NEM successor tariff. Further, municipal utilities are generally not subject to the same state laws and public commission oversight as compared to investor owned utilities and may make drastic and abrupt changes. As we continue to expand into areas with municipal utilities, we may be subject to greater risk of regulatory uncertainty.. On October 12, 2015, the Hawaii Public Utilities Commission issued an order closing the Hawaiian Electric Company's net metering program to new participants and replaced this program with two new options for customers to interconnect to the utilities' power grids, neither of which provides for compensation for exports at retail electricity rates. Subsequently, on October 20, 2017, the Hawaii Public Utilities Commission issued an order approving two new rooftop solar programs, neither of which provides for compensation for exports at the retail electric rate.. In December 2016, the Arizona Corporation Commission decided to end traditional net metering and transition to a new distributed solar energy net metering compensation regime in which customers are paid for energy generated from solar energy systems located on their roofs pursuant to a resource comparison proxy methodology or avoided cost methodology. Each of these methodologies will yield a compensation rate that is less advantageous than was previously available to customers under the historical net metering regime, limited to a 10% step down in each utility's rate annually. The Arizona Corporation Commission has also adopted a settlement agreement between the Arizona Public Service Company and industry stakeholders under which demand charges based on a customer's maximum average rate of energy consumed during a specified interval will be imposed on residential customers under certain rate schedules. These changes reduce the value proposition for residential solar in Arizona as compared to residential solar under the traditional net metering regime.. 13. In December 2016, Rocky Mountain Power submitted a request to the Utah Public Service Commission to request that the Commission implement new rates for net metered customers seeking interconnection. We, together with other parties and Rocky Mountain Power entered into a settlement agreement that was filed with the Utah Public Service Commission in August 2017. The settlement provides for (among other things): (1) an end to the current net metering program on November 15, 2017 and establishes a grandfathering period through 2035 for all customers enrolled in the program before such date; (2) a transition program through 2020 where customers will receive slightly less than the retail rate for their net metering credits through 2033; and (3) a new proceeding in front of the Utah Public Service Commission to study the value of rooftop solar based on the long-term benefits and costs of distributed energy systems. A decision from the Utah Public Service Commission approving the settlement agreement was issued in September 2017.. In July 2017, Nevada Power Company submitted an application to the Nevada Public Service Commission proposing a change to the net metering program after the passage of the state Assembly Bill 405. The Nevada Public Service Commission conducted hearings on the matter in August and in September issued an order rejecting the Nevada Power Company proposal. In that order, the Commission affirmed that AB 405 provides for monthly netting and established clarity on the tranche classifications for the monthly net excess generation compensation credits. Nevada Power Company continues to file rate cases and other proposals that could have adverse effects on our solar customers in Nevada.. Additionally, in March 2017, the New York Public Service Commission issued an order transitioning from traditional net metering to a new value of distributed energy resource compensation regime in which customers are paid for energy generated from solar energy systems located on their roofs pursuant to a methodology based on the value of the distributed energy from such systems. After a transitional period through January 1, 2020 during which customers can still qualify for net metering (subject to a specified aggregate capacity amount availability for each utility), this value of distributed energy methodology could yield a compensation rate that is less advantageous than was previously available to customers under the historical net metering regime. Several other states plan to revisit their net metering policies in the coming years.. If and when net metering caps in certain jurisdictions are reached while they are still in effect, the value of the credit that customers receive for net metering is significantly reduced, utility rate structures are altered, or fees are imposed on net metering customers, future customers may be unable to recognize the same level of cost savings associated with net metering that current customers enjoy. The absence of favorable net metering policies or of net metering entirely, or the imposition of new charges that only or disproportionately impact customers that use net metering would significantly limit customer demand for our solar energy systems and the electricity they generate, could negatively affect existing customers and lead to missed payments or defaults, and could adversely impact our business, results of operations and future growth.. Our business has benefited from the declining cost of solar panels, and our financial results may be harmed if the cost of solar panels increases in the future.. During previous years, the declining cost of solar panels and the raw materials necessary to manufacture them has been a key driver in the price we charge for electricity and customer adoption of solar energy. Although industry experts indicate that solar panel and raw material prices will generally continue to decline, it is possible they will not decline at the same rate as they have over the past several years or that they may increase. In addition, while the solar panel market has recently seen an increase in supply, growth in the solar industry and the resulting increase in demand for solar panels and the raw materials necessary to manufacture them may put upward pressure on prices. These resulting prices could slow our growth and cause our financial results to suffer. In addition, in the past we have purchased a substantial majority of the solar panels used in our solar energy systems from manufacturers headquartered in China, however, most of the manufacturing now takes place in other Asian countries, such as Malaysia and Vietnam. Changes in governmental support or regulation in China or the other countries where these products are manufactured could affect our ability to purchase them on competitive terms, and access to specialized technologies could be restricted.. In addition, the U.S. government could impose additional tariffs on solar cells manufactured outside the United States or implement additional restraints on trade. In 2014, the U.S. government broadened its investigation of Chinese pricing practices in this area to include solar panels and modules produced in China containing solar cells manufactured in other countries. In July 2015, the U.S. government announced antidumping duties ranging from 9.67% to 238.95% on imports of the majority of solar panels made in China, and, in December 2014, imposed duties ranging from 11.5% to 27.6% on imported solar cells made in Taiwan. Countervailing duties ranging from 15.43% to 49.8% for Chinese modules were announced, and in July 2015 were set at 20.94% for most Chinese modules. In January 2015, the antidumping duties were confirmed by a determination of the U.S. International Trade Commission, or the USITC, that material harm to the U.S. solar industry had occurred. These combined tariffs make such solar cells less competitively priced in the United States, and the Chinese and Taiwanese manufacturers may choose to limit the amount of solar equipment they sell into the United States. If we are required to pay higher prices, accept less favorable terms or purchase solar panels or other system components from alternative, higher-priced sources, our financial results will be adversely affected.. 14. The U.S. government may also take broader actions to protect U.S. based manufacturers against imports of solar cells manufactured outside the United States, such as in Southeast Asia, Japan, Germany and South Korea. Recently, a U.S.-based solar manufacturer, which filed for bankruptcy in April 2017, filed a petition under Section 201 of the Trade Act of 1974 for global safeguard relief with the USITC, and requested imposition of tariffs on solar cells and the establishment of a minimum price for solar modules imported into the United States. In May 2017, the USITC accepted the request to review the impact of imported crystalline silicon cells and modules on domestic solar manufacturers. The petition sought steep tariffs and minimum price guarantees on certain solar energy equipment and modules manufactured anywhere outside the United States, including materials that we rely on to provide a cost-competitive product to our customers. On September 22, 2017, the USITC determined by unanimous vote that substantial injury had occurred. On October 31, 2017, the USITC issued three remedy recommendations and formally sent them to the President of the United States on November 13, 2017.. On January 22, 2018, the President announced the imposition of safeguard measures for a period of four years that include (1) a 30% tariff on imports of solar cells not partially or fully assembled into other products and (2) a 30% tariff on imported solar modules. These tariffs are additive to the anti-dumping and countervailing duties imposed in 2014 and 2015. The tariff on imported solar modules will decline 5% each year in the second, third and fourth years. The safeguard measures went into effect on February 7, 2018 and apply to imports for all foreign countries, including Mexico and Canada, except certain developing countries that are members of the World Trade Organization.. While remedies the President imposed are less severe than the remedies requested by petitioners, the safeguard measures will likely increase our costs of solar modules and could have a significant impact on our system costs, business and prospects. If we are required to pay higher prices, accept less favorable terms or purchase solar panels or other system components from alternative, higher-priced sources, or if supply is otherwise constrained, our costs would increase significantly and it may be less economical for us to serve certain markets, which would adversely affect our operating results and growth prospects.. Lack of success in System Sales could negatively impact our operating results and cash flows.. In late 2015, we began offering to customers in select markets the option to purchase solar energy systems as System Sales. We historically offered our solar energy systems through PPAs or Solar Leases. System Sales allow us to expand our product offerings and to enter into additional markets, such as those that prohibit third-party ownership of distributed solar energy systems or that lack a favorable net metering policy. System Sales represented approximately 22% of total megawatts installed in 2017. Industry analysts have indicated that the number of customer-owned solar energy systems has increased significantly relative to third-party ownership in certain markets and that solar energy system sales are expected to account for a larger percentage of total residential solar installations in the future. Continued increases in the variety and availability of third-party loan financing products to consumers and outright solar energy system purchases could further facilitate this growth. If customer preferences or the residential solar energy market continue to shift toward solar energy system sales, and we are not successful in our efforts, we may lose market share, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and growth prospects. To the extent we are unsuccessful in our efforts to sell solar energy systems, or to work with third parties to finance those systems for our customers, our operating cash flows would be negatively affected and our business and growth prospects would be adversely affected.. 15. Technical and regulatory limitations may significantly reduce our ability to sell electricity from our solar energy systems and retain employees in certain markets.. Technical and regulatory limits may curb our growth in certain key markets, which may also reduce our ability to retain employees in those markets. For example, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, in promulgating the first form small generator interconnection procedures, recommended limiting customer-sited intermittent generation resources, such as our solar energy systems, to a certain percentage of peak load on a given electrical feeder circuit. Similar limits have been adopted by many states as a de facto standard and could constrain our ability to market to customers in certain geographic areas where the concentration of solar installations exceeds this limit. For example, Hawaiian electric utilities have adopted certain policies that limit distributed electricity generation in parts of their service territories. In the first half of 2014, Hawaii was the second largest market in which we operated as measured by total installations. However, despite legislative and regulatory actions to allow further distributed electricity penetration, these limitations constrained growth of distributed residential solar energy in Hawaii in the second half of 2014 and beyond, and Hawaii has become a less important market to us as a result. While a recent Hawaii Public Utilities Commission order seeks to streamline the interconnection process, and while our growth in other markets has more than offset the impact of these limitations in Hawaii, if we experienced similar or other limitations on the deployment of solar energy systems, our business, operating results and growth prospects could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, in certain areas, we benefit from policies that allow for expedited or simplified procedures related to connecting solar energy systems to the power grid. If such procedures are changed or cease to be available, our ability to sell the electricity generated by solar energy systems we install may be adversely impacted. As adoption of solar distributed generation rises along with the commercial operation of utility scale solar generation in key markets such as California, the amount of solar energy being fed into the power grid will surpass the amount planned for relative to the amount of aggregate demand. Some traditional utilities claim that in less than five years, solar generation resources may reach a level capable of producing an over-generation situation, which may require some solar generation resources to be curtailed to maintain operation of the power grid. While the prospect of such curtailment is somewhat speculative, particularly in the residential sector, the adverse effects of such curtailment without compensation could adversely impact our business, results of operations and future growth.. We have incurred operating losses before income taxes and may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability in the future.. We have incurred operating losses before income taxes since our inception. We incurred losses before income taxes of $148.9 million and $235.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. In 2017, we recorded a large one-time non-cash tax benefit related to the implementation of the TCJA, which was enacted on December 22, 2017. We expect to continue to incur losses before income taxes from operations as we finance our operations, expand our installation, engineering, administrative, sales and marketing staffs, and implement internal systems and infrastructure to support financing the installation of new solar energy systems. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on a number of factors, including:. •  growing our customer base;. •  finding investors willing to invest in our investment funds;. •  maintaining and further lowering our cost of capital;. •  reducing the time between system installation and interconnection to the power grid, which allows us to begin generating revenue;. •  reducing the cost of components for our solar energy systems. •  maximizing the benefits of rebates, tax credits, SRECs and other available incentives; and. •  reducing our operating costs by optimizing our sales, design and installation processes and supply chain logistics.. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may be unable to sustain or increase our profitability in the future.. 16. The majority of our business is conducted using one channel, direct-selling.. Historically, our primary sales channel has been a direct sales model. We also sell to customers through our inside sales team but continue to find greatest success using our direct sales channel. In addition, we recently began to establish a retail sales channel and entered into sales dealer agreements with Vivint and others. We may sell through additional distribution channels in the future. We compete against companies with experience selling solar energy systems to customers through a number of distribution channels, including homebuilders, home improvement stores, large construction, electrical and roofing companies, the internet and other third parties and companies that access customers through relationships with third parties in addition to other direct-selling companies. Our less diversified distribution channels may place us at a disadvantage with consumers who prefer to purchase products through these other distribution channels. Recently, one of our competitors announced that it would terminate its direct-selling efforts. If customers demonstrate a preference for other distribution channels, we may need to reduce our direct-selling efforts. We are also vulnerable to changes in laws related to direct sales and marketing that could impose additional limitations on unsolicited residential sales calls and may impose additional restrictions such as adjustments to our marketing materials and direct-selling processes, and new training for personnel. If additional laws affecting direct sales and marketing are passed in the markets in which we operate, it would take time to train our sales force to comply with such laws, and we may be exposed to fines or other penalties for violations of such laws. If we fail to compete effectively through our direct-selling efforts or are not successful in developing other sales channels, our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects could be adversely affected.. We are highly dependent on our ability to attract, train and retain an effective sales force.. The success of our direct-selling channel efforts depends upon the recruitment, retention and motivation of a large number of sales personnel to compensate for a high turnover rate among sales personnel, which is a common characteristic of a direct-selling business. In order to grow our business, we need to recruit, train and retain sales personnel on a continuing basis. Sales personnel are attracted to direct-selling by competitive earnings opportunities, and direct-sellers typically compete for sales personnel by providing a more competitive earnings opportunity than that offered by the competition. We believe competitors devote substantial effort to determining the effectiveness of such incentives so that they can invest in incentives that are the most cost effective or produce the best return on investment. For example, we have historically compensated our sales personnel on a commission basis, based on the size of the solar energy systems they sell and recently have begun compensating based on system size, contract rate and the expected number of hours the rooftop will be exposed to full sunlight. Some sales personnel may prefer a compensation structure that also includes a salary and equity incentive component. There is significant competition for sales talent in our industry, and from time to time we may need to adjust our compensation model to include such components. These adjustments have caused our customer acquisition costs to increase and could otherwise adversely impact our operating results and financial performance.. In addition to our sales compensation model, our ability to recruit, train and retain effective sales personnel could be harmed by additional factors, including:. •  any adverse publicity regarding us, our solar energy systems, our distribution channel or our industry;. •  lack of interest in, or the technical failure of, our solar energy systems;. •  lack of a compelling product or income opportunity that generates interest for potential new sales personnel, or perception that other product or income opportunities are more attractive;. •  any negative public perception of our sales personnel and direct-selling businesses in general;. •  any regulatory actions or charges against us or others in our industry;. •  general economic and business conditions; and. •  potential saturation or maturity levels in a given market which could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain sales personnel in such market.. We are subject to significant competition for the recruitment of sales personnel from other direct-selling companies and from other companies that sell solar energy systems in particular. Regional and district managers of our sales personnel are instrumental in recruiting, retaining and motivating our sales personnel. When managers have elected to leave us and join other companies, the sales personnel they supervise have often left with them. We may experience increased attrition in our sales personnel in the future which may impact our results of operations and growth. The impact of such attrition could be particularly acute in those jurisdictions, such as California, where contractual non-competition agreements for service providers are not enforceable or are subject to significant limitations.. It is therefore continually necessary to innovate and enhance our direct-selling and service model as well as to recruit and retain new sales personnel. If we are unable to do so, our business will be adversely affected.. 17. We are not currently regulated as an electric utility under applicable law in the jurisdictions in which we operate (other than New York), but we may be subject to regulation as an electric utility in the future.. Except as described below with respect to New York, we are not regulated as a public utility in any of the markets in which we currently operate. As a result, we are not subject to the various federal, state and local standards, restrictions and regulatory requirements applicable to traditional utilities that operate transmission and distribution systems and that have an obligation to serve electric customers within a specified jurisdiction.. On October 19, 2017, the Public Service Commission of the State of New York entered an order determining that residential rooftop solar energy providers are \"electric corporations\" (the term for electric utilities under New York state law) and requiring changes that will affect certain aspects of our business. The order, which is part of a broader proceeding before the Commission associated with regulating and overseeing distributed energy resource suppliers, is premised on the Commission's determination that it has the jurisdiction to oversee our business, and businesses like ours, in the same way that it oversees public utilities. We have worked with SEIA and others in the industry to petition the Commission for a rehearing on the order, specifically challenging its position that the statutes giving it the ability to regulate utilities also give it jurisdiction over us. Though New York's Public Service Commission is, to our knowledge, the first state public commission to take the position that residential rooftop solar energy providers are subject to the same regulatory oversight as electric utilities, we understand from SEIA that other public service commissions are following what is happening in New York, and may take similar action depending on the outcome. If we were subject to the jurisdiction of public service commissions in the same or a similar way as public utilities, those commissions could take action that could materially affect our business operations.. Any additional federal, state, or local regulations that cause us to be treated as an electric utility, or to otherwise be subject to a similar regulatory regime of commission-approved operating tariffs, rate limitations, and related mandatory provisions, could place significant restrictions on our ability to operate our business and execute our business plan by prohibiting, restricting or otherwise regulating our sale of electricity. If we were subject to the same state or federal regulatory authorities as electric utilities in the United States or if new regulatory bodies were established to oversee our business in the United States, then our operating costs would materially increase.. Our business depends in part on the regulatory treatment of third-party owned solar energy systems.. Retail sales of electricity by non-utilities such as us face regulatory hurdles in some states and jurisdictions, including states and jurisdictions that we intend to enter, where the laws and regulatory policies have not historically embraced competition to the service provided by the incumbent, vertically integrated electric utility. Some of the principal challenges pertain to whether non-customer owned systems qualify for the same levels of rebates or other non-tax incentives available for customer-owned solar energy systems, whether third-party owned systems are eligible at all for these incentives and whether third-party owned systems are eligible for net metering and the associated significant cost savings. Furthermore, in some states and utility territories third parties are limited in the way that they may deliver solar to their customers. In jurisdictions such as Arizona, Florida, South Carolina, Utah and Los Angeles, California, laws have been interpreted to either prohibit the sale of electricity pursuant to our standard PPA or regulate entities making such sales, in some cases, such laws have led residential solar energy system providers to use leases in lieu of power purchase agreements. In other states, neither leases nor power purchase agreements are permissible or commercially feasible. Changes in law and reductions in, eliminations of or additional application requirements for, these benefits could reduce demand for our systems, adversely impact our access to capital and could cause us to increase the price we charge our customers for energy.. If the IRS or the U.S. Treasury Department makes a determination that the fair market value of our solar energy systems is materially lower than what we have reported in our fund tax returns, we may have to pay significant amounts to our investment funds, our fund investors and/or the U.S. government. Such determinations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects.. We report in our fund tax returns that we and our fund investors claim the ITC based on the fair market value of our solar energy systems. Scrutiny by the IRS continues with respect to fair market value determinations industry-wide. The IRS is conducting an audit of one of our investment funds. We are not aware of any other audits or results of audits related to our appraisals or fair market value determinations of any of our investment funds. If as part of an examination the IRS were to review the fair market value that we used to establish our basis for claiming ITCs and determine that the ITCs previously claimed should be reduced, we would owe certain of our investment funds or our fund investors an amount equal to 30% of the investor's share of the difference between the fair market value used to establish our basis for claiming ITCs and the adjusted fair market value determined by the IRS, plus any costs and expenses associated with a challenge to that fair market value, plus a gross up to pay for additional taxes. We could also be subject to tax liabilities, including interest and penalties, based on our share of claimed ITCs. To date, we have not been required to make such payments under any of our investment funds.. 18. Rising interest rates could adversely impact our business.. Rising interest rates could have an adverse impact on our business by increasing our cost of capital. The majority of our cash flows to date have been from customer contracts that have been partially monetized under various investment fund structures. One of the components of this monetization is the present value of the payment streams from the customers who enter into these contracts. If the rate of return required by the fund investor rises as a result of a rise in interest rates, the present value of the customer payment stream and the total value that we are able to derive from monetizing the payment stream will each be reduced. Interest rates are at low levels. It is likely that interest rates will continue to rise in the future, which would cause our costs of capital to increase.. Our investment funds contain arrangements that provide for priority distributions to fund investors until they receive their targeted rates of return. In addition, under the terms of certain of our investment funds, we may be required to make payments to the fund investors if certain tax benefits that are allocated to such fund investors are not realized as expected. Our financial condition may be adversely impacted if a fund is required to make these priority distributions for a longer period than anticipated to achieve the fund investors' targeted rates of return or if we are required to make any tax-related payments.. Our investment funds contain terms that contractually require the investment funds to make priority distributions to the fund investor, to the extent cash is available, until it achieves its targeted rate of return. The amounts of potential future distributions under these arrangements depends on the amounts and timing of receipt of cash flows into the investment fund, almost all of which is generated from customer payments related to solar energy systems that have been previously purchased (or leased, as applicable) by such fund. If such cash flows are lower than expected, the priority distributions to the investor may continue for longer than initially anticipated.. Additionally, certain of our investment funds require that, under certain circumstances, we forego distributions from the fund that we are otherwise contractually entitled to, or make capital contributions to the fund that can be redirected to the fund investor such that it achieves the targeted return. These forgone distributions or capital contributions will generally occur if the fund investor has not achieved its targeted return prior to the target flip date of the investment fund. None of our investment funds have reached their target flip date at the current time and we anticipate that the first target flip date in which a fund investor is required to have achieved its targeted return is 2020.. Our fund investors also expect returns partially in the form of tax benefits and, to enable such returns, our investment funds contain terms that contractually require us to make payments to the funds that are then used to make payments to the fund investor in certain circumstances so that the fund investor receives value equivalent to the tax benefits it expected to receive when entering into the transaction. The amounts of potential tax payments under these arrangements depend on the tax benefits that accrue to such investors from the funds' activities and, in some cases, may be impacted by changes in tax law.. Due to uncertainties associated with estimating the timing and amounts of these cash distributions and allocations of tax benefits to such investors, we cannot determine the potential maximum future impact on our cash flows or payments that we could have to make under these arrangements. We may agree to similar terms in the future if market conditions require it. Any significant payments that we may be required to make or distributions to us that are reduced or diverted as a result of these arrangements could adversely affect our financial condition.. We may incur substantially more debt or take other actions that could restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies.. As of December 31, 2017, we have entered into debt facilities through which we have $956.1 million in aggregate principal amounts outstanding and up to $240.0 million of unused borrowing capacity remaining. These debt facilities restrict our ability to dispose of assets, incur indebtedness, incur liens, pay dividends or make other distributions to holders of our capital stock, repurchase our capital stock, make specified investments or engage in transactions with our affiliates. In addition, we do not have full access to the cash and cash equivalents held in our investments funds until distributed per the terms of the arrangements. We and our subsidiaries may incur substantial additional debt in the future and any debt instrument we enter into in the future may contain similar, or more onerous, restrictions. These restrictions could inhibit our ability to pursue our business strategies. Additionally, our ability to make scheduled payments depends on our operating performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors that may be beyond our control. Furthermore, if we default on one of our debt instruments, and such event of default is not cured or waived, the lenders could terminate commitments to lend and cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the debt to be due and payable immediately, which in turn could result in cross acceleration under other debt instruments. Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under all of our outstanding debt instruments if some or all of these instruments are accelerated upon a default.. 19. Furthermore, there is no assurance that we will be able to enter into new debt instruments on acceptable terms. If we are unable to satisfy financial covenants and other terms under existing or new instruments or obtain waivers or forbearance from our lenders or if we are unable to obtain refinancing or new financings for our working capital, equipment and other needs on acceptable terms if and when needed, our business would be adversely affected.. Our business is concentrated in certain markets, putting us at risk of region specific disruptions.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 39% of our cumulative installations and 30% of our offices were located in California. In addition, we expect future growth to occur in California, which could further concentrate our customer base and operational infrastructure. Accordingly, our business and results of operations are particularly susceptible to adverse economic, regulatory, political, weather and other conditions in California and in other markets that may become similarly concentrated.. Residential solar energy is an evolving market, which makes it difficult to evaluate our prospects.. The residential solar energy industry is constantly evolving, which makes it difficult to evaluate our prospects. We cannot be certain if historical growth rates reflect future opportunities or whether growth anticipated by us or industry analysts will be realized. Any future growth of the residential solar energy market and the success of our solar energy systems depend on many factors beyond our control, including recognition and acceptance of the residential solar energy market by consumers, the pricing of alternative sources of energy, a favorable regulatory environment, the continuation of expected tax benefits and other incentives and our ability to provide our solar energy systems cost-effectively. If the markets for residential solar energy do not develop at the rate we expect, our business may be adversely affected.. Additionally, there is limited empirical evidence regarding the effect solar energy systems have on the resale value of customers' houses. Due to the length of our customer contracts, the system deployed on a customer's roof may be outdated prior to the expiration of the term of the customer contract reducing the likelihood of renewal of our contracts at the end of the 20-year term, and possibly increasing the occurrence of defaults. This could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. As a result, we may be unable to accurately forecast our future performance and to invest accordingly.. We have previously identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to inadequate review procedures in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements that resulted in the restatement of certain of our financial statements, and we may identify material weaknesses in the future.. We previously reported a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 associated with the hypothetical liquidation at book value, or HLBV, method of attributing net income or loss to non-controlling interests and redeemable non-controlling interests and with our financial statement close process. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. We implemented a number of measures to remediate the material weakness described above, and based on these measures, management tested the internal control activities and found them to be effective and concluded that the material weakness described above was remediated as of December 31, 2016. However, if in future periods we identify other material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, which could result in the loss of investor confidence. In addition, to date, the audit of our consolidated financial statements by our independent registered public accounting firm has included a consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis of designing their audit procedures, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. When we cease to be an emerging growth company we will be required to have our independent registered accounting firm perform such an evaluation, and additional material weaknesses or other control deficiencies may be identified.. If we are unable to avoid or remediate any future material weakness, our stock price may be adversely affected and we may be unable to maintain compliance with applicable stock exchange listing requirements.. 20. We face competition from traditional regulated electric utilities, from less-regulated third party energy service providers, other solar companies and from new renewable energy companies.. The solar energy and renewable energy industries are both highly competitive and continually evolving as participants strive to distinguish themselves within their markets and compete with large traditional utilities. We believe that our primary competitors are the traditional utilities that supply electricity to our potential customers. Traditional utilities generally have substantially greater financial, technical, operational and other resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to devote more resources to the research, development, promotion and sale of their products or respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in market conditions than we can, including the ability to initiate proceedings before state public utility commissions to reduce the value of net metering. Traditional utilities could also offer other value-added products or services that could help them to compete with us even if the cost of electricity they offer is higher than ours. In addition, a majority of utilities' sources of electricity is non-solar, which may allow utilities to sell electricity more cheaply than electricity generated by our solar energy systems.. We also compete with companies that are not regulated like traditional utilities but that have access to the traditional utility electricity transmission and distribution infrastructure pursuant to state and local pro-competitive and consumer choice policies. These energy service companies are able to offer customers electricity supply-only solutions that are competitive with our solar energy system options on both price and usage of renewable energy technology while avoiding the long-term agreements and physical installations that our current fund-financed business model requires. This may limit our ability to attract new customers, particularly those who wish to avoid long-term contracts or have an aesthetic or other objection to putting solar panels on their roofs.. Additionally, we compete with solar companies with business models that are similar to ours. Some of these competitors have a higher degree of brand name recognition, differing business and pricing strategies, and greater capital resources than we have, as well as extensive knowledge of our target markets. In addition, our System Sales face increasing competition from other national and local solar energy companies who sell solar energy systems and may offer a broader suite of companion products. We believe the solar industry is becoming increasingly commoditized, and if we are unable to offer differentiated products, establish or maintain a consumer brand that resonates with homeowners or compete with the pricing offered by our competitors, our sales and market share position may be adversely affected.. In addition, we compete with solar companies in the downstream value chain of solar energy. For example, we face competition from purely finance driven organizations that acquire customers and then subcontract out the installation of solar energy systems, from installation businesses that seek financing from external parties, from large construction companies and utilities, and increasingly from sophisticated electrical and roofing companies. Some of these competitors specialize in the residential solar energy market, and some may provide energy at lower costs than we do. Additionally, some of our competitors may offer their products through sales channels that they have more fully developed, such as retail sales. Further, some of our competitors are integrating vertically in order to ensure supply and to control costs. Many of our competitors also have significant brand name recognition and have extensive knowledge of our target markets. For us to remain competitive, we must distinguish ourselves from our competitors by offering an integrated approach that successfully competes with each level of products and services offered by our competitors at various points in the value chain. If our competitors develop an integrated approach similar to ours including sales, financing, engineering, manufacturing, installation, maintenance and monitoring services, this will reduce our marketplace differentiation.. We also compete with solar companies that offer community solar products and utility companies that provide renewable power purchase programs. Some customers might choose to subscribe to a community solar project or renewable subscriber programs instead of installing a solar energy system on their home, which could affect our sales.. As the solar industry grows and evolves, we will also face new competitors who are not currently in the market. Our industry is characterized by low technological barriers to entry and well-capitalized companies could choose to enter the market and compete with us. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or new competitors will limit our growth and will have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects.. Developments in alternative technologies or improvements in distributed solar energy generation may materially adversely affect demand for our offerings.. Significant developments in alternative technologies, such as advances in other forms of distributed solar power generation, storage solutions such as batteries, the widespread use or adoption of fuel cells for residential or commercial properties or improvements in other forms of centralized power production may materially and adversely affect our business and prospects in ways we do not currently anticipate. Any failure by us to adopt new or enhanced technologies or processes, or to react to changes in existing technologies, could materially delay deployment of our solar energy systems, which could result in product obsolescence, the loss of competitiveness of our systems, decreased revenue and a loss of market share to competitors.. 21. A failure to hire and retain a sufficient number of employees in key functions would constrain our ability to timely complete our customers' projects.. To support our business, we need to hire, train, deploy, manage and retain a substantial number of skilled installers and electricians in the markets where there is heightened or increasing demand for solar energy products. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry has increased substantially, and we expect it to continue to do so, particularly for skilled electricians and other personnel involved in the installation of solar energy systems. We also compete with the homebuilding and construction industries for skilled labor. As these industries seek to hire additional workers, our cost of labor may increase. Companies with whom we compete to hire installers may offer compensation or incentive plans that certain installers may view as more favorable. We periodically assess the compensation plans and policies for our service providers, including our installers and electricians, and, if deemed necessary, may decide to revise those plans and policies. Our installers and electricians may not react well to any such revisions, which in turn could adversely affect retention, motivation and productivity. Additionally, we continually monitor our workforce requirements in the markets in which we operate. Any workforce reductions in markets where sales volume does not support the number of installation and other personnel could in turn adversely affect retention, motivation and productivity. We may also subcontract certain aspects of the installation process to independent contractors. Training these independent contractors and monitoring them for compliance with our policies may require significant management oversight and may present additional risks and challenges compared to those related to managing our employees.. Furthermore, trained installers are typically able to more efficiently install solar energy systems. Shortages of skilled labor could significantly delay installations or otherwise increase our costs. While we do not currently have any unionized employees, we have expanded, and may continue to expand, into areas such as the Northeast, where labor unions are more prevalent. The unionization of our labor force could also increase our labor costs. In addition, a significant portion of our business has been concentrated in states such as California, where market conditions are particularly favorable to distributed solar energy generation. We have experienced and may in the future experience greater than expected turnover in our installers in those jurisdictions which would adversely impact the geographic mix of new solar energy system installations.. Because we are a licensed electrical contractor in every jurisdiction in which we operate, we are required to employ licensed electricians. As we expand into new markets, we are required to hire and/or contract with seasoned licensed electricians in order for us to qualify for the requisite state and local licenses. Because of the high demand for these seasoned licensed electricians, these individuals currently or in the future may demand greater compensation. In addition, our inability to attract and retain these qualifying electricians may adversely impact our ability to continue operations in current markets or expand into new areas.. If we cannot meet our hiring, retention and efficiency goals, we may be unable to complete our customers' projects on time, in an acceptable manner or at all. Any significant failures in this regard would materially impair our growth, reputation, business and financial results. If we are required to pay higher compensation than we anticipate, these greater expenses may also adversely impact our financial results and the growth of our business.. We act as the licensed general contractor for our customers and are subject to risks associated with construction, cost overruns, delays, regulatory compliance and other contingencies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We are a licensed contractor in every market we service, and we are responsible for every customer installation. We are the general contractor, electrician, construction manager and installer for all our solar energy systems. We may be liable to customers for any damage we cause to their home, belongings or property during the installation of our systems, including any re-roofing services provided under our contracts. In addition, because the solar energy systems we deploy are high-voltage energy systems, we may incur liability for the failure to comply with electrical standards and manufacturer recommendations. Furthermore, prior to obtaining permission to operate our solar energy systems, the systems must pass various inspections. Any delay in passing, or inability to pass, such inspections, would adversely affect our results of operations. Because our profit on a particular installation is based in part on assumptions as to the cost of such project, damage for which we are liable, cost overruns, delays or other execution issues may cause us to not achieve our expected results or cover our costs for that project.. In addition, the installation of solar energy systems is subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national, state and local laws and ordinances relating to building, fire and electrical codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering, and related matters. We also rely on certain of our employees to maintain professional licenses in many of the jurisdictions in which we operate, and our failure to employ properly licensed personnel could adversely affect our licensing status in those jurisdictions. It is difficult and costly to track the requirements of every authority having jurisdiction over our operations and our solar energy systems. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our systems, or changes to existing government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our systems, may result in significant additional expenses to us and our customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our systems.. 22. We depend on a limited number of suppliers of solar energy system components and technologies to adequately meet anticipated demand for our solar energy systems. Due to the limited number of suppliers in our industry, the acquisition of any of these suppliers by a competitor or any shortage, delay, price change, imposition of tariffs or duties or other limitation in our ability to obtain components or technologies we use could result in sales and installation delays, cancellations and loss of market share.. We purchase solar panels, inverters and other system components from a limited number of suppliers, making us susceptible to quality issues, shortages and price changes. If we fail to develop, maintain and expand our relationships with our suppliers, our ability to adequately meet anticipated demand for our solar energy systems may be adversely affected, or we may only be able to offer our systems at higher costs or after delays. If one or more of the suppliers that we rely upon to meet anticipated demand ceases or reduces production due to its financial condition, acquisition by a competitor or otherwise, is unable to increase production as industry demand increases or is otherwise unable to allocate sufficient production to us, it may be difficult to quickly identify alternative suppliers or to qualify alternative products on commercially reasonable terms, and our ability to satisfy this demand may be adversely affected. There are a limited number of suppliers of solar energy system components and technologies. While we believe there are other sources of supply for these products available, transitioning to a new supplier may result in additional costs and delays in acquiring our solar products and deploying our systems, and may require us to obtain the approval of our financing partners in order to utilize new products. These issues could harm our business or financial performance.. There have also been periods of industry-wide shortages of key components, including solar panels, in times of rapid industry growth. The manufacturing infrastructure for some of these components has a long lead-time, requires significant capital investment and relies on the continued availability of key commodity materials, potentially resulting in an inability to meet demand for these components. The solar industry is growing and, as a result, shortages of key components, including solar panels, may be more likely to occur, which in turn may result in price increases for such components. Even if industry-wide shortages do not occur, suppliers may decide to allocate key components with high demand or insufficient production capacity to more profitable customers, customers with long-term supply agreements or customers other than us and our supply of such components may be reduced as a result.. We have entered into multi-year agreements with certain of our major suppliers. These agreements are denominated in U.S. dollars. Since our revenue is also generated in U.S. dollars, we are mostly insulated from currency fluctuations. However, since our suppliers often incur a significant amount of their costs by purchasing raw materials and generating operating expenses in foreign currencies, if the value of the U.S. dollar depreciates significantly or for a prolonged period of time against these other currencies, this may cause our suppliers to raise the prices they charge us, which could harm our financial results. As noted above, the U.S. government has imposed tariffs on solar cells produced and assembled in China and Taiwan, and a 30% tariff (decreasing by 5% each year for four years) on imports of solar cells not partially or fully assembled into other products and a 30% tariff (decreasing by 5% each year for four years) on imported solar modules from most foreign countries. It is unclear what further actions the current U.S. presidential administration may take with respect to existing and proposed trade agreements, or restrictions on trade generally. The existing tariffs, and any new tariffs, duties or other trade measures, or shortages, delays, price changes or other limitation in our ability to obtain components or technologies we use could limit our growth, cause cancellations or adversely affect our profitability, and result in loss of market share and damage to our brand.. Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year, which could make our future performance difficult to predict and could cause our operating results for a particular period to fall below expectations, resulting in a severe decline in the price of our common stock.. Our quarterly and annual operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly in the future. We have experienced seasonal and quarterly fluctuations in the past. However, given that we are in a growing industry, the true extent of these fluctuations may have been masked by our historical growth rates and thus may not be readily apparent from our historical operating results and may be difficult to predict. For example, the amount of revenue we recognize in a given period from our customer contracts is dependent in part on the amount of energy generated by solar energy systems under such contracts. As a result, revenue derived from PPAs is impacted by seasonally shorter daylight hours in winter months. In addition, our ability to install solar energy systems is impacted by weather, such as during the winter months in the Northeastern United States. Such delays can impact the timing of when we can install and begin to generate revenue from solar energy systems. As such, our past quarterly operating results may not be good indicators of future performance.. 23. In addition to the other risks described in this \"Risk Factors\" section, the following factors could cause our operating results to fluctuate:. •  the expiration or initiation of any rebates or incentives;. •  significant fluctuations in customer demand for our offerings;. •  our ability to complete installations and interconnect to the power grid in a timely manner;. •  the availability and costs of suitable financing;. •  the amount and timing of sales of SRECs;. •  our ability to continue to expand our operations, and the amount and timing of expenditures related to this expansion;. •  actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate relative to our competitors;. •  announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital-raising activities or commitments;. •  changes in our pricing policies or terms or those of our competitors, including traditional utilities; and. •  actual or anticipated developments in our competitors' businesses or the competitive landscape.. For these or other reasons, the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance. In addition, our actual revenue, key operating metrics and other operating results in future periods may fall short of the expectations of investors and financial analysts, which could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock.. The profitability and residual value of our solar energy systems during and at the end of the associated term of the PPA or Solar Lease may be lower than projected today and adversely affect our financial performance and valuation.. We maintain ownership of the solar energy systems that we install under our PPAs or Solar Leases. We amortize the costs of our solar energy systems over a 30-year estimated useful life, which exceeds the period of the component warranties and the corresponding payment streams from our contracts with our customers. If we incur repair and maintenance costs on these systems after the warranties have expired, and if they then fail or malfunction, we will be liable for the expense of repairing these systems without a chance of recovery from our suppliers. We are also contractually obligated to remove, store and reinstall the solar energy systems, typically for a nominal fee, if customers need to replace or repair their roofs. However, customer fees may not cover our costs to remove, store and reinstall the solar energy systems. In addition, we typically bear the cost of removing the solar energy systems at the end of the term of the customer contract if the customer does not renew his or her contract or purchase the system. Furthermore, it is difficult to predict how future environmental regulations may affect the costs associated with the removal, disposal or recycling of our solar energy systems. We also face other factors that could increase the costs or diminish the production of a solar energy system, such as unanticipated damage or malfunctions, animal interference and weather-related matters. If the residual value of the systems is less than we expect at the end of the customer contract, after giving effect to any associated removal and redeployment costs, we may be required to accelerate all or some of the remaining unamortized costs. If the profitability or the residual value of the systems is lower than expected, this could materially impair our future operating results and estimated retained value.. Compliance with occupational safety and health requirements and best practices can be costly, and noncompliance with such requirements may result in potentially significant monetary penalties, operational delays and adverse publicity.. The installation of solar energy systems requires our employees to work at heights with complicated and potentially dangerous electrical systems and at potentially high temperatures. The evaluation and modification of buildings as part of the installation process requires our employees to work in locations that may contain potentially dangerous levels of asbestos, lead, mold or other materials known or believed to be hazardous to human health. We also maintain a fleet of approximately 750 trucks and other vehicles to support our installers and operations. There is substantial risk of serious injury or death if proper safety procedures are not followed. Our operations are subject to regulation under OSHA, DOT, and equivalent state laws. Changes to OSHA, DOT or state requirements, or stricter interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or regulations, could result in increased costs. If we fail to comply with applicable OSHA regulations, even if no work-related serious injury or death occurs, we may be subject to civil or criminal enforcement and be required to pay substantial penalties, incur significant capital expenditures or suspend or limit operations. We could be exposed to increased liability in the future. In the past, we have had workplace accidents and received citations from OSHA regulators for alleged safety violations, resulting in fines. Any such accidents, citations, violations, injuries or failure to comply with industry best practices may subject us to adverse publicity, damage our reputation and competitive position and adversely affect our business.. 24. Problems with product quality or performance may cause us to incur expenses, may lower the residual value of our solar energy systems and may damage our market reputation and adversely affect our financial results.. We agree to maintain the solar energy systems installed on our customers' homes in connection with a PPA or Solar Lease during the length of the term of our customer contracts, which is typically 20 years. We are exposed to any liabilities arising from the systems' failure to operate properly and are generally under an obligation to ensure that each system remains in good condition during the term of the agreement. We also agree to provide a workmanship warranty and maintain the solar energy systems we sell to customers for a period of one to ten years. As part of our operations and maintenance work, we provide a pass-through of the inverter and panel manufacturers' warranty coverage to our System Sales customers, which generally range from ten to 20 years. We also take advantage of manufacturers' warranty coverage when maintaining solar energy systems installed under PPAs and Solar Leases. One or more of these third-party manufacturers could cease operations and no longer honor these warranties, leaving us to fulfill these potential obligations to our customers or to our fund investors without underlying warranty coverage. We, either ourselves or through our investment funds, bear the cost of such major equipment. Even if the investment fund bears the direct expense of such replacement equipment, we could suffer financial losses associated with a loss of production from the solar energy systems.. To be competitive in the market and to comply with the requirements of our jurisdictions, our Solar Leases contain a performance guarantee in favor of the lessee. Solar Leases with performance guarantees require us to refund money to the lessee if the solar energy system fails to generate a stated minimum amount of electricity in a 12-month period. We may also suffer financial losses associated with such refunds if significant performance guarantee payments are triggered.. Our failure to accurately predict future liabilities related to material quality or performance expenses could result in unexpected volatility in our financial condition. Because of the long estimated useful life of our solar energy systems, we have been required to make assumptions and apply judgments regarding a number of factors, including our anticipated rate of warranty claims, and the durability, performance and reliability of our solar energy systems. We have made these assumptions based on the historic performance of similar systems or on accelerated life cycle testing. Our assumptions could prove to be materially different from the actual performance of our systems, causing us to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective solar energy systems in the future or to compensate customers for systems that do not meet their performance guarantees. Equipment defects, serial defects or operational deficiencies also would reduce our revenue from customer contracts because the customer payments under such agreements are dependent on system production or would require us to make refunds under performance guarantees. Any widespread product failures or operating deficiencies may damage our market reputation and adversely impact our financial results.. We are responsible for providing maintenance, repair and billing on solar energy systems that are owned or leased by our investment funds on a fixed fee basis, and our financial performance could be adversely affected if our cost of providing such services is higher than we project.. We typically provide a workmanship warranty for periods of five to 20 years to our investment funds for every system we sell to them. We are also generally contractually obligated to cover the cost of maintenance, repair and billing on any solar energy systems that we sell or lease to our investment funds. We are subject to a maintenance services agreement under which we are required to operate and maintain the system, and perform customer billing services for a fixed fee that is calculated to cover our future expected maintenance and servicing costs of the solar energy systems in each investment fund over the term of the PPA or Solar Lease with the covered customers. If our solar energy systems require an above-average amount of repairs or if the cost of repairing systems were higher than our estimate, we would need to perform such repairs without additional compensation. If our solar energy systems are damaged in the event of a natural disaster beyond our control, such as an earthquake, tornado, wildfire, tsunami or hurricane, losses could be outside the scope of insurance policies or exceed insurance policy limits, and we could incur unforeseen costs that could harm our business and financial condition. We may also incur significant costs for taking other actions in preparation for, or in reaction to, such events. When required to do so under the terms of a particular investment fund, we purchase property and business interruption insurance or other insurance policies with industry standard coverage and limits approved by the investor's third-party insurance advisors to hedge against risk, but such coverage may not cover our losses, and we have not acquired such coverage for all of our funds.. 25. Product liability claims against us or accidents could result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages.. If our solar energy systems or other products were to injure someone, we could be exposed to product liability claims. In addition, it is possible that our products could cause property damage as a result of product malfunctions, defects, improper installation, fire or other causes. We rely on our general liability insurance to cover product liability claims. Any product liability claim we face could be expensive to defend and divert management's attention. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages, penalties or fines, increase our insurance rates, subject us to adverse publicity, damage our reputation and competitive position and adversely affect sales of our systems and other products. In addition, product liability claims, injuries, defects or other problems experienced by other companies in the residential solar industry could lead to unfavorable market conditions to the industry as a whole, and may have an adverse effect on our ability to attract new customers, thus affecting our growth and financial performance.. Failure by our component suppliers to use ethical business practices and comply with applicable laws and regulations may adversely affect our business.. We do not control our suppliers or their business practices. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that they follow ethical business practices such as fair wage practices and compliance with environmental, safety and other local laws. A lack of demonstrated compliance could lead us to seek alternative suppliers, which could increase our costs and result in delayed delivery of our products, product shortages or other disruptions of our operations. Violation of labor or other laws by our suppliers or the divergence of a supplier's labor or other practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States or other markets in which we do business could also attract negative publicity for us and harm our business.. Damage to our brand and reputation, or change or loss of use of our brand, could harm our business and results of operations.. We depend significantly on our reputation for high-quality products, best-in-class customer service and the brand name \"Vivint Solar\" to attract new customers and grow our business. If we fail to continue to deliver our solar energy systems within the planned timelines, if our offerings do not perform as anticipated or if we damage any of our customers' properties or delay or cancel projects, our brand and reputation could be significantly impaired. Future technical improvements may allow us to offer lower prices or offer new technology to new customers; however, technical limitations in our current solar energy systems may prevent us from offering such lower prices or new technology to our existing customers. The inability of our current customers to benefit from technological improvements could cause our existing customers to lower the value they perceive our existing products offer and impair our brand and reputation.. We have focused particular attention on growing our direct sales force, leading us in some instances to take on candidates who we later determined did not meet our standards. In addition, given our direct sales business model and the sheer number of interactions our sales and other personnel have with customers and potential customers, it is inevitable that some customers' and potential customers' interactions with our company will be perceived as less than satisfactory. This has led to instances of customer complaints, some of which have affected our digital footprint on rating websites such as Yelp and SolarReviews, which have come to the attention of certain non-profit consumer protection groups. If we cannot manage our hiring and training processes to avoid or minimize these issues to the extent possible, our reputation may be harmed and our ability to attract new customers would suffer.. Given our relationship with our sister company Vivint and the similarity in our names, customers may associate us with any problems experienced with Vivint, such as complaints with the Better Business Bureau. Because we have no control over Vivint, we may not be able to take remedial action to cure any issues Vivint has with its customers, and our brand and reputation may be harmed if we are mistaken for the same company.. In addition, if we were to no longer use, lose the right to continue to use, or if others use, the \"Vivint Solar\" brand, we could lose recognition in the marketplace among customers, suppliers and partners, which could affect our growth and financial performance, and would require financial and other investment, and management attention in new branding, which may not be as successful.. 26. Marketplace confidence in our liquidity and long-term business prospects is important for building and maintaining our business.. Our financial condition, operating results and business prospects may suffer materially if we are unable to establish and maintain confidence about our liquidity and business prospects among consumers and within our industry. Our solar energy systems require ongoing maintenance and support. If we were to reduce operations now or in the future, existing buyers of our systems might have difficulty in having us repair or service our systems, which remain our responsibility under the terms of our customer contracts. As a result, consumers may be less likely to purchase our solar energy systems now if they are uncertain that our business will succeed or that our operations will continue for many years. Similarly, suppliers and other third parties will be less likely to invest time and resources in developing business relationships with us if they are not convinced that our business will succeed. Accordingly, in order to build and maintain our business, we must maintain confidence among customers, suppliers and other parties in our liquidity and long-term business prospects. We may not succeed in our efforts to build this confidence.. If we fail to manage our recent and future operations and growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of customer service or adequately address competitive challenges.. We have experienced growth in recent periods with the cumulative capacity of our solar energy systems growing from 681.1 megawatts as of December 31, 2016 to 864.9 megawatts as of December 31, 2017, and we intend to continue to expand our business within existing markets and in a number of new locations in the future. This growth has placed, and any future growth may place, a strain on our management, operational and financial infrastructure. Our operations, growth and expansion require significant time and effort on the part of our management team as it is required to maintain and expand our relationships with customers, suppliers and other third parties and attract new customers, suppliers and financing, as well as manage multiple geographic locations.. In addition, our current and planned operations, personnel, information technology and other systems and procedures might be inadequate to support our future growth and may require us to make additional unanticipated investments in our infrastructure. Our success and ability to further scale our business will depend, in part, on our ability to manage these changes in a cost-effective and efficient manner.. If we cannot manage our operations and growth, we may be unable to meet our or industry analysts' expectations regarding growth, opportunity and financial targets, take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business strategies, meet our investment fund commitments or respond to competitive pressures. This could also result in declines in quality or customer satisfaction, increased costs, difficulties in introducing new offerings or other operational difficulties. Any failure to effectively manage our operations and growth could adversely impact our business and reputation.. Expansion into new markets could be costly and time-consuming. Historically, we have only provided our offerings to residential customers, which could put us at a disadvantage relative to companies who also compete in other markets.. We have historically only provided our offerings to residential customers. We compete with companies who sell solar energy systems in the commercial, industrial and government markets, in addition to the residential market. While we believe that in the future we could have opportunities to expand our operations into other markets, there are no assurances that our design and installation systems will work for non-residential customers or that we will be able to compete successfully with companies with historical presences in such markets or we may not realize the anticipated benefits of entering such markets, and entering new markets has numerous risks, including the following:. •  incurring significant costs if we are required to adapt our current or develop new design and installation processes for use in non-residential applications;. •  diversion of our management and employees from our core residential business;. •  difficulty adapting our current or developing new marketing strategies and sales channels to non-residential customers;. •  inability to obtain key customers, brand recognition and market share and compete successfully with companies with historical presences in such markets; and. •  inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for such market.. If we choose to pursue opportunities in additional markets and are unable to successfully compete in such markets, our operating results and growth prospects could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, there is intense competition in the residential solar energy market in the markets in which we operate. As new entrants continue to enter into these markets, we may be unable to gain or maintain market share and we may be unable to compete with companies that earn revenue in both the residential market and non-residential markets.. 27. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and integration of these acquisitions may disrupt our business and management.. In the future we may acquire companies, project pipelines, products or technologies or enter into joint ventures or other strategic initiatives. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any future acquisition, and any acquisition has numerous risks. These risks include the following:. •  difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company;. •  difficulty in effectively integrating the acquired technologies or products with our current technologies;. •  difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration;. •  disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and employees from other opportunities and challenges due to integration issues;. •  difficulty integrating the acquired company's accounting, management information and other administrative systems;. •  inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel of the acquired business;. •  inability to retain key customers, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business;. •  inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses;. •  incurring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results;. •  potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant issues with product quality, intellectual property infringement and other legal and financial liabilities, among other things;. •  potential inability to assert that internal controls over financial reporting are effective; and. •  potential inability to obtain, or obtain in a timely manner, approvals from governmental authorities, which could delay or prevent such acquisitions.. Mergers and acquisitions of companies are inherently risky, and if we do not complete the integration of acquired businesses successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions to the extent anticipated, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The loss of one or more members of our senior management or key employees may adversely affect our ability to implement our strategy.. We are highly dependent on the efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management team, and the loss of one or more key executives could have a negative impact on our business.. We also depend on our ability to retain and motivate key employees and attract qualified new employees. None of our key executives are bound by employment agreements for any specific term, and we do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executive officers. Our compensation structure, which includes salary, bonus, equity and benefits components, is important to our ability to attract, retain and motivate our employees. If we do not provide adequate compensation, or appropriately structure our equity grants, we may be unable to maintain our current workforce or attract new talent in the future, and we may be unable to replace key members of our management team and key employees if we lose their services. Integrating new employees into our team could prove disruptive to our operations, require substantial resources and management attention and ultimately prove unsuccessful. An inability to attract and retain sufficient managerial personnel who have critical industry experience and relationships could limit or delay our strategic efforts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. 28. We may be subject to intellectual property rights claims by third parties, which are extremely costly to defend, could require us to pay significant damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies.. Third parties, including our competitors, may own patents or other intellectual property rights that cover aspects of our technology or business methods. Such parties may claim we have misappropriated, misused, violated or infringed third party intellectual property rights, and, if we gain greater recognition in the market, we face a higher risk of being the subject of claims that we have violated others' intellectual property rights. Any claim that we violate a third party's intellectual property rights, whether with or without merit, could be time-consuming, expensive to settle or litigate and could divert our management's attention and other resources. If we do not successfully settle or defend an intellectual property claim, we could be liable for significant monetary damages and could be prohibited from continuing to use certain technology, business methods, content or brands. To avoid a prohibition, we could seek a license from third parties, which could require us to pay significant royalties, increasing our operating expenses. If a license is not available at all or not available on reasonable terms, we may be required to develop or license a non-violating alternative, either of which could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop a non-violating alternative, we would be forced to limit or stop sales of our offerings and may be unable to effectively compete. Any of these results would adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. To deter other companies from making intellectual property claims against us or to gain leverage in settlement negotiations, we may be forced to significantly increase the size of our intellectual property portfolio through internal efforts and acquisitions from third parties, both of which could require significant expenditures. However, a robust intellectual property portfolio may provide little or no deterrence, particularly for patent holding companies or other patent owners that have no relevant product revenues.. We use \"open source\" software in our solutions, which may restrict how we distribute our offerings, require that we release the source code of certain software subject to open source licenses or subject us to possible litigation or other actions that could adversely affect our business.. We currently use in our solutions, and expect to continue to use in the future, software that is licensed under so-called \"open source,\" \"free\" or other similar licenses. Open source software is made available to the general public on an \"as-is\" basis under the terms of a non-negotiable license. We currently combine our proprietary software with open source software but not in a manner that we believe requires the release of the source code of our proprietary software to the public. We do not plan to integrate our proprietary software with open source software in ways that would require the release of the source code of our proprietary software to the public, however, our use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software. Open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. In addition, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release to the public or remove the source code of our proprietary software. We may also face claims alleging noncompliance with open source license terms or infringement or misappropriation of proprietary software. These claims could result in litigation, require us to purchase a costly license or remove the software. In addition, if the license terms for open source software that we use change, we may be forced to re-engineer our solutions, incur additional costs or discontinue the sale of our offerings if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis. Although we monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our offerings to unintended conditions, few courts have interpreted open source licenses, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our offerings. We cannot guarantee that we have incorporated open source software in our software in a manner that will not subject us to liability, or in a manner that is consistent with our current policies and procedures.. The installation and operation of solar energy systems depends heavily on suitable solar and meteorological conditions. If meteorological conditions are unexpectedly unfavorable, the electricity production from our solar energy systems may be substantially below our expectations and our ability to timely deploy new systems may be adversely impacted.. The energy produced and revenue and cash receipts generated by a solar energy system depend on suitable solar, atmospheric and weather conditions, all of which are beyond our control. Furthermore, components of our systems, such as panels and inverters, could be damaged by severe weather, such as hailstorms, lightning or wildfires. Although we maintain insurance to cover for many such casualty events, our investment funds would be obligated to bear the expense of repairing the damaged solar energy systems, sometimes subject to limitations based on our ability to successfully make warranty claims. Our economic model and projected returns on our systems require us to achieve certain production results from our systems and, in some cases, we guarantee these results for both our customers and our investors. If the systems underperform for any reason, our financial results could suffer.. 29. Sustained unfavorable weather also could delay our installation of solar energy systems, leading to increased expenses and decreased revenue and cash receipts in the relevant periods. We have experienced seasonal fluctuations in our operations. The amount of revenue we recognize in a given period from PPAs is dependent in part on the amount of energy generated by solar energy systems under such contracts. As a result, operating leases and incentives revenue is impacted by seasonally shorter daylight hours in winter months. In addition, our ability to install solar energy systems is impacted by weather. We have limited ability to install solar energy systems during the winter months in the Northeastern United States. Such delays can impact the timing of when we can install and begin to generate revenue from solar energy systems. However, given that we are in a growing industry, the true extent of these fluctuations may have been masked by our historical growth rates and thus may not be readily apparent from our historical operating results and may be difficult to predict. As such, our historical operating results may not be indicative of future performance. Furthermore, weather patterns could change, making it harder to predict the average annual amount of sunlight striking each location where we install a solar energy system. This could make our solar energy systems less economical individually or in the aggregate. Any of these events or conditions could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Disruptions to our solar monitoring systems could negatively impact the operation of our business and our revenues and increase our expenses.. Our ability to accurately charge our customers for the energy produced by our solar energy systems depends on our ability to monitor our customers' solar energy systems. Our customer agreements require our customers to maintain a broadband internet connection so that we may receive data regarding solar energy system production from their home networks. We could incur significant expenses or disruptions of our operations in connection with failures of our solar monitoring systems, including failures of our customers' home networks that would prevent us from accurately monitoring solar energy production. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including \"bugs\" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our systems. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate viruses and bugs, or any problems associated with failures of our customers' home networks could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service that may impede our sales, distribution or other critical functions. When a customer's solar monitoring system is not properly communicating with us, we estimate the production of their solar energy systems. Such estimates may prove inaccurate and could cause us to underestimate the power being generated by our solar energy systems and undercharge our customers, thereby harming our results of operations.. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers.. Our solar energy customers most commonly purchase energy or lease solar energy systems from us pursuant to one of two types of long-term contracts: a PPA or a Solar Lease. The terms of PPAs and Solar Leases are typically for 20 years, and require the customer to make monthly payments to us. Accordingly, we are subject to the credit risk of our customers. As of December 31, 2017, the average FICO score of our customers was approximately 760. However, as we grow our business, the risk of customer defaults could increase. Our reserve for this exposure is estimated to be $3.6 million as of December 31, 2017, and our future exposure may exceed the amount of such reserves. While we do not currently extend credit to customers interested in System Sales, many of those customers are interested in financing the purchase of a solar energy system. While these customers may seek third-party financing through their own lender or a lender with whom we have a relationship, if they do not have sufficient credit to qualify for a loan, they may be unable to purchase a solar energy system. This could reduce our potential customer pool and limit our System Sales.. A failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to our interactions with current or prospective residential customers could result in negative publicity, claims, investigations and litigation, and adversely affect our financial performance.. Our business focuses on contracts and transactions with residential customers. We must comply with numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern matters relating to our interactions with consumers, including those pertaining to privacy and data security, consumer financial and credit transactions, home improvement contracts, warranties, door-to-door solicitation as well as specific regulations pertaining to solar installations. These laws and regulations are dynamic and subject to potentially differing interpretations, and various federal, state and local legislative and regulatory bodies may initiate investigations, expand current laws or regulations, or enact new laws and regulations, regarding these matters. Changes in these laws or regulations or their interpretation could dramatically affect how we do business, acquire customers, and manage and use information we collect from and about current and prospective customers and the costs associated therewith.. Several states in which we operate, including Arizona, California, Florida, Maryland, Nevada and New Mexico, have enacted new laws, and the Public Service Commission of New York has entered an order (as described above) that provides enhanced rights to customers solicited by way of direct sales, and requires increased disclosures and acknowledgements in any agreement governing the financing, sale or lease of distributed energy systems, such as our solar energy systems. Most of these new laws are specific to the solar industry, and require changes to our contracts and processes. Some of the new laws have been enacted along with other changes to state law that further impact the residential solar industry. To the extent that other states enact further regulations applicable to our industry, we may be required to expend additional resources in order to modify our businesses practices to meet these regulatory requirements.. 30. We strive to comply with all applicable laws and regulations relating to our interactions with residential customers. It is possible, however, that these requirements may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other rules or our practices. For example, members of the U.S. House of Representatives have sent letters to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, requesting that these agencies investigate the sales practices of companies providing solar energy system leases to residential consumers. In 2016, the FTC held a public workshop on competition and consumer protection issues relating to the residential solar industry, and we expect additional regulatory scrutiny of the industry at the state and federal levels. Additionally, in March 2017, we received notice that the New Mexico Attorney General's office intends to file an action against us and our officers alleging violation of state consumer protection statutes. While we believe our standard sales practices and policies comply with all applicable laws and regulations, if federal, state or other local regulators or agencies were to initiate an investigation against us or enact regulations relating to the marketing of our products to residential consumers, responding to such investigation or complying with such regulations could divert management's attention to our business, require us to modify our operations and incur significant additional expenses, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations or could reduce the number of our potential customers.. As another example, the Fannie Mae Selling Guide imposes certain requirements on the terms of solar power purchase agreements and leases as a condition of eligibility of home mortgages for sale to or securitization by Fannie Mae. These requirements include responsibility for damage to the real property, insurance requirements, and lender rights in the event of foreclosure. Such requirements, and possible future conditions impacting the ability of our customers to sell or refinance their homes impact the terms of our business, the terms on which we are able to obtain financing and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, beginning in 2017, the Federal Housing Administration will no longer provide mortgage insurance to homes with solar energy systems or other improvements financed through property accessed clean programs, or PACE.. We cannot ensure that our sales force will comply with our standard practices and policies, as well as applicable laws and regulations. Any such non-compliance, or the perception of noncompliance, potentially could expose us to claims, proceedings, litigation, investigations, and/or enforcement actions by private parties and regulatory authorities, as well as substantial fines and negative publicity, each of which may materially and adversely affect our business. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses to comply with the laws, regulations and industry standards that apply to us.. Any unauthorized access to, or disclosure or theft of personal information or other proprietary information we gather, store or use could harm our reputation and subject us to claims or litigation.. We receive, store and use personal information of our customers, including names, addresses, e-mail addresses, credit information and other housing and energy use information. We also store and use personal information of our employees. In addition, we previously used certain shared information and technology systems with Vivint, and Vivint continues to store some of our historical data. We take certain steps in an effort to protect the security, integrity and confidentiality of the personal information and other proprietary and confidential information we collect, store or transmit, but there is no guarantee that inadvertent or unauthorized use or disclosure will not occur or that third parties will not gain unauthorized access to this information despite our efforts. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we and our suppliers or vendors, including Vivint, may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative or mitigation measures. In addition, due to a potential time lapse between when a sales representative leaves us and when we are made aware of the separation, sales representatives may have continued access to our customers' information for a period when they should not.. We are also subject to laws and regulations relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personal information of our customers. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between one company and its subsidiaries. Several jurisdictions have passed new laws in this area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. These laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocates and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that either legally or contractually apply to us, such as the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, or PCI DSS, which may affect any processes associated with handling credit card numbers. In the event we fail to be compliant with the PCI DSS, fines and other penalties could result. Complying with emerging and changing requirements may cause us to incur costs or require us to change our business practices. Any actual or alleged failure by us, our affiliates or other parties with whom we do business to comply with privacy-related or data protection laws, regulations and industry standards could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others, which could have a detrimental effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 31. Any actual or perceived unauthorized use or disclosure of, or access to, any personal information or other proprietary or confidential information maintained by us or on our behalf, whether through breach of our systems, breach of the systems of our suppliers or vendors, including Vivint, by an unauthorized party, or through employee or contractor error, theft or misuse, or otherwise, could harm our business. If any such unauthorized use or disclosure of, or access to, such personal information were to occur or to be believed to have occurred, our operations could be seriously disrupted and we could be subject to demands, claims and litigation by private parties, and investigations, related actions, and penalties by regulatory authorities. In addition, we could incur significant costs in notifying affected persons and entities and otherwise complying with the multitude of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to unauthorized access to, or use or disclosure of, personal information. Finally, any perceived or actual unauthorized access to, or use or disclosure of, such information could harm our reputation, substantially impair our ability to attract and retain customers and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are involved, and may become involved in the future, in legal proceedings that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could adversely affect our financial results.. We are, and may in the future become, party to litigation. For examples, see Note 17 - Commitments and Contingencies. While we intend to defend against these actions vigorously, the ultimate outcomes of these cases are presently not determinable as they are in preliminary phases. In general, litigation claims can be expensive and time consuming to bring or defend against, may result in the diversion of management attention and resources from our business and business goals and could result in settlements or damages that could significantly affect financial results and the conduct of our business. It is not possible to predict the final resolution of the litigation to which we currently are or may in the future become party, and the impact of certain of these matters on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows.. Our reported financial results may be affected, and comparability of our financial results with other companies in our industry may be impacted, by changes in the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to change and interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and on the financial results of other companies in our industry, and may even affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement or effectiveness of a change. For example, in May 2014 the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which will affect certain elements of our accounting for revenue and costs incurred to acquire contracts when this standard becomes effective for the us in 2018. Other companies in our industry may be affected differently by the adoption of Topic 606 or other new accounting standards, including timing of the adoption of new accounting standards, adversely affecting the comparability of our financial statements. See Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for information about Topic 606.. Risks Related to our Relationship with Vivint. Vivint has provided us with certain information technology support for our business in the past. If we do not successfully implement and operate our own information technology systems, our operations may be disrupted and our operating results could be harmed.. We have historically relied on the technical support of Vivint. We used certain of Vivint's information technology and infrastructure until we transitioned off in July 2017. Furthermore, while we have transitioned to our own systems, some of our historical data continues to reside on Vivint's systems. Any difficulty in separating our information technology services or obtaining our historical data from Vivint's information technology services could result in unexpected costs, impact our results or prevent us from performing other technical, administrative and information technology services on a timely basis and could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 32. Our inability to resolve any disputes that arise between us and Vivint with respect to our past and ongoing relationships may adversely affect our financial results, and such disputes may also result in claims for indemnification.. Disputes may arise between Vivint and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including the following:. •  intellectual property, labor, tax, employee benefits, indemnification and other matters arising from our separation from Vivint;. •  employee retention and recruiting;. •  our ability to use, modify and enhance the intellectual property that we have licensed from Vivint;. •  business combinations or divestitures;. •  pricing for shared and transitional services;. •  exclusivity arrangements;. •  the nature, quality and pricing of products and services Vivint agrees to provide to us; and. •  business opportunities that may be attractive to both Vivint and us.. We have entered into certain agreements with Vivint. In August 2017, we entered into a sales dealer agreement with Vivint. Under this agreement, each party will act as a dealer for the other party to market, promote and sell each other's products. The agreement has a two-year term, which will be automatically renewed for successive one-year terms unless written notice of termination is provided by one of the parties to the other no less than 90 days prior to the end of the then current term. The products, territories and consideration that is payable by each party to the other is determined in accordance with the agreement. There can be no assurances regarding the number of sales and installations of our products that Vivint will be able to generate, or the number of leads that we will be able to generate. In addition, as we work to expand our customer opportunities and product offerings through our relationship with Vivint, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by factors that affect Vivint's business and our relationship. Pursuant to the terms of a Non-Competition Agreement we have entered into with Vivint, as amended, we and Vivint each have agreed not to solicit for employment any member of the other's executive or senior management team, or any of the other's employees who primarily manage sales, installation or services of the other's products and services until the termination of the sales dealer agreement. The commitment not to solicit each other's employees lasts for 180 days after such employee finishes employment with us or Vivint. Historically, we had recruited a significant number of our sales personnel from Vivint. This agreement may require us to obtain personnel from other sources, and any inability to do so may limit our ability to continue scaling our business if we are unable to do so. Notwithstanding the above, a number of sales representatives work for both Vivint and us. To the extent there is any confusion concerning the relationship between us and Vivint with respect to the products and services we offer and the products and services of Vivint, such sales representatives could expose us to increased claims, proceedings, litigation and investigations by consumers and regulatory authorities. In addition, having sales representatives who work for both Vivint and us could distract such sales representatives, impact the effectiveness of our sales force, and potentially increase the turnover of our existing sales representatives who may feel displaced by the addition of Vivint sales representatives to our sales force.. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts relating to these agreements or otherwise, and even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. In addition, we have indemnification obligations under some of the agreements we have entered into with Vivint, and disputes between us and Vivint may result in claims for indemnification. However, we do not currently expect that these indemnification obligations will materially affect our potential liability compared to what it would be if we did not enter into these agreements with Vivint.. 33. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. The price of our common stock may be volatile, and the value of your investment could decline.. The trading price of our common stock may be highly volatile. From our initial public offering on October 1, 2014 to December 31, 2017, the closing price of our common stock has ranged from a high of $16.01 to a low of $2.22. Our stock price could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include:. •  our financial condition and the availability and terms of future financing;. •  changes in laws or regulations applicable to our industry or offerings, including any new tariffs or trade regulations that affect our ability to import goods at attractive prices or at all;. •  additions or departures of key personnel;. •  actual or anticipated changes in expectations regarding our performance by investors or securities analysts;. •  securities litigation involving us;. •  price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market;. •  volatility in the market price and trading volume of companies in our industry or companies that investors consider comparable;. •  share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares;. •  the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock;. •  our ability to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights;. •  sales of our common stock by us, our stockholders or our employees, including sales of equity awards granted to our employees to cover tax withholding obligations;. •  litigation or disputes involving us, our industry or both;. •  major catastrophic events;. •  general economic and market conditions; and. •  potential acquisitions.. Further, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. In addition, the stock prices of many renewable energy companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. If the market price of our common stock decreases, investors may not realize any return on investment and may lose some or all of their investments. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We could become the target of additional securities litigation in the future, which could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business.. As an emerging growth company within the meaning of the Securities Act, we will utilize certain modified disclosure requirements, and we cannot be certain if these reduced requirements will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an emerging growth company, and, for as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may choose to take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to \"emerging growth companies\" including, but not limited to, not being required to have our independent registered public accounting firm audit our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We have utilized, and we plan in future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, to continue to utilize, the modified disclosure requirements available to emerging growth companies. As a result, our stockholders may not have access to certain information they may deem important.. 34. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can utilize the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. Thus, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies.\". We could remain an \"emerging growth company\" until the earliest of (1) December 31, 2019, (2) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our annual gross revenue exceeds $1.1 billion, (3) the date that we become a \"large accelerated filer\" as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act, which would occur if we become a seasoned issuer and the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter or (4) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt securities during the preceding three-year period.. Our stock price could decline due to the large number of outstanding shares of our common stock eligible for future sale.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. These sales could also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 115.1 million outstanding shares of common stock. These shares may be sold in the public market in the United States, subject to prior registration in the United States, if required, or reliance upon an exemption from U.S. registration, including, in the case of shares held by affiliates or control persons, compliance with the volume restrictions of Rule 144.. In addition, we have granted and expect to continue to grant equity awards to our directors and employees as additional compensation in an effort to align their interests with those of our stockholders. Approximately 2.7 million shares of our common stock are reserved for future issuance under our Long-Term Incentive Plan, and these shares will issue, vest and be immediately tradable without restriction on the date that our Sponsor and its affiliates achieve specified returns on their invested capital.. Further, equity awards for 10.5 million shares of common stock remained outstanding as of December 31, 2017, with 2.0 million of those shares being vested and exercisable as of December 31, 2017. Additionally, \"sell-to-cover\" transactions are utilized in connection with the vesting and settlement of equity awards that are granted to our employees so that shares of our common stock are sold on behalf of our employees in an amount sufficient to cover the tax withholding obligations associated with these awards. As a result of these transactions, a significant number of shares of our stock may be sold over a limited time period in connection with significant vesting events. For example, during the month of May 2017, approximately 3.5 million restricted stock units settled, which increased the volume of our shares that would otherwise have been sold during that time.. Stockholders owning an aggregate of 84.7 million shares of our common stock are entitled, under contracts providing for registration rights, to require us to register shares of our common stock owned by them for public sale in the United States, subject to the restrictions of Rule 144. In October 2014, we filed a registration statement on Form S-8 to register 22.9 million shares previously issued or reserved for future issuance under our equity compensation plans and agreements, and we registered an additional 12.9 million shares in March 2017. Under these registration statements, subject to the satisfaction of applicable vesting periods, the shares of common stock issued upon exercise of outstanding options and vested restricted stock units will be available for immediate resale in the United States in the open market. Sales of our common stock as restrictions end or pursuant to registration rights may make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. These sales also could cause our stock price to fall and make it more difficult for investors to sell shares of our common stock.. 35. Our Sponsor and its affiliates control us and their interests may conflict with ours or investors' in the future.. As of December 31, 2017, 313 Acquisition LLC, which is controlled by our Sponsor and its affiliates, beneficially owned approximately 72% of our common stock. Moreover, under our organizational documents and the stockholders agreement with 313 Acquisition LLC, for so long as our existing owners and their affiliates retain significant ownership of us, we will agree to nominate to our board individuals designated by our Sponsor, whom we refer to as the Sponsor directors. In addition, for so long as 313 Acquisition LLC continues to own shares representing a majority of the total voting power, we will agree to nominate to our board individuals appointed by Summit Partners and Todd Pedersen. Even when our Sponsor and its affiliates and certain of its co-investors cease to own shares of our stock representing a majority of the total voting power, for so long as our Sponsor and its affiliates continue to own a significant percentage of our stock our Sponsor will still be able to significantly influence the composition of our board of directors and the approval of actions requiring stockholder approval. In addition, under the stockholders agreement, affiliates of our Sponsor will have consent rights with respect to certain actions involving our company, provided a certain aggregate ownership threshold is maintained collectively by our Sponsor and its affiliates, together with Summit Partners, Todd Pedersen and Alex Dunn and their respective affiliates. Accordingly, for such period of time, our Sponsor and certain of its co-investors will have significant influence with respect to our management, business plans and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers. In particular, for so long as our Sponsor and its affiliates continue to own a significant percentage of our stock, our Sponsor will be able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. The concentration of ownership could deprive investors of an opportunity to receive a premium for shares of common stock as part of a sale of our company and ultimately might affect the market price of our common stock.. Our Sponsor and its affiliates engage in a broad spectrum of activities, including investments in the energy sector. In the ordinary course of their business activities, our Sponsor and its affiliates may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. For example, affiliates of our Sponsor regularly invest in utility companies that compete with solar energy and renewable energy companies such as ours. In addition, affiliates of our Sponsor own interests in one of the largest solar power developers in India and may in the future make other investments in solar power, including in the United States. Our certificate of incorporation provides that none of our Sponsor, any of its affiliates or any director who is not employed by us (including any non-employee director who serves as one of our officers in both his or her director and officer capacities) or his or her affiliates will have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. Our Sponsor also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. In addition, our Sponsor may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to investors.. We have elected to take advantage of the \"controlled company\" exemption to the corporate governance rules for New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, listed companies, which could make our common stock less attractive to some investors or otherwise harm our stock price.. Because we qualify as a \"controlled company\" under the corporate governance rules for NYSE listed companies, we are not required to have a majority of our board of directors be independent, nor are we required to have a compensation committee or an independent nominating function. In light of our status as a controlled company, in the future we could elect not to have a majority of our board of directors be independent or not to have a compensation committee or nominating and governance committee. Accordingly, should the interests of 313 Acquisition LLC or our Sponsor differ from those of other stockholders, the other stockholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance rules for NYSE listed companies. Our status as a controlled company could make our common stock less attractive to some investors or otherwise harm our stock price.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, stockholders agreement and under Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and stockholders agreement contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may believe advantageous. These provisions include:. •  establishing a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board of directors are elected at one time;. •  authorizing \"blank check\" preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt;. •  limiting the ability of stockholders to call a special stockholder meeting;. •  limiting the ability of stockholders to act by written consent;. 36. •  providing that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws;. •  establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings;. •  requiring our Sponsor to consent to certain actions, as described under the section of our 2017 Proxy Statement captioned \"Related Party Transactions - Agreements with Our Sponsor,\" for so long as our Sponsor, Summit Partners, Todd Pedersen and Alex Dunn or their respective affiliates collectively own, in the aggregate, at least 30% of our outstanding shares of common stock;. •  the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66-2/3% in voting power of all the then-outstanding shares of stock of our company entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, if Blackstone and its affiliates beneficially own, in the aggregate, less than 30% in voting power of the stock of our company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; and. •  that certain provisions may be amended only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66-2/3% in voting power of all the then-outstanding shares of stock of our company entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, if Blackstone and its affiliates beneficially own, in the aggregate, less than 30% in voting power of the stock of our company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If any of the analysts who do now, or may in the future, cover us change their recommendation regarding our stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our stock price would likely decline. If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline."
