[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks below, as well as all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating our company and our business.  Any of these risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our common stock.. For the financial information discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other than per share and per line amounts, dollar amounts are presented in thousands, except where noted.. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose market share and revenue.. The business cloud communications markets and consumer services market in which we participate are highly competitive. We face intense competition from a broad set of companies, including:. • software as a service companies and other alternative communication providers and other providers of cloud communications services; and. • traditional telephone, wireless service providers, cable companies and alternative communications providers with consumer offerings. Many of these providers are substantially larger and better capitalized than we are and have the advantage of greater name and brand name recognition and a large existing customer base.  These service providers may have the ability to devote greater resources to their communications services and may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities.  Our competitors' financial resources may allow them to offer services at prices below cost or even for free in order to maintain and gain market share or otherwise improve their competitive positions.  Some of our competitors also could use their greater financial resources to develop and market telephony and messaging services with more attractive features and more robust customer service.  In addition, because of the other services our competitors provide, some of these service providers choose to offer cloud communications services as part of a bundle that includes other products, such as high speed Internet access and wireless telephone service.  These bundled offers may enable our competitors to offer cloud communications services at prices with which we may not be able to compete or to offer functionality that integrates cloud communications services with their other offerings, both of which may be more desirable.  As we continue the introduction of applications that integrate different forms of voice and messaging services over multiple devices, we face competition from emerging competitors focused on similar integration, as well as from established alternative communication providers.  Any of these competitive factors could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers, reduce our market share and revenues, or cause us to lower our prices or offer additional features that may result in additional costs without commensurate price increases.   In order to compete with such service providers, we may have to reduce our prices, which would impair our profitability, or offer additional features that may cause us to incur additional costs without commensurate price increases.  To the extent that these or other companies strengthen their offerings, we may have to reduce our prices, increase promotions, or offer additional features, which may adversely impact our revenues and profitability.. In connection with our emphasis on the international long distance market for consumer customers, we face competition from low-cost international calling cards, digital calling cards and VoIP providers in addition to traditional telephone companies, cable companies, and wireless companies.  To the extent that these providers target marketing to the same ethnic segments that we target or strengthen their offerings to these segments, we may have to reduce our prices or increase promotions, which would impair our profitability, or offer additional features that may cause us to incur additional costs without commensurate price increase.. As a result of increasing competition, domestic and international telephony and messaging rates have generally decreased during the past few years, and we expect this trend to continue.  Continued rate pressures or increasing cost to use our services could lessen or eliminate the pricing advantage that we maintain over certain competitors and cause customers or potential customers to select alternative providers or cause us to lower our prices, which would adversely impact our revenues and profitability.. 12       VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2017. Table of Contents. As the cloud communications services market evolves, and the convergence of voice, video, messaging, mobility and data networking technologies accelerates, we may face competition in the future from companies that do not currently compete in the cloud communications services market, including companies that currently compete in other sectors, companies that serve consumer rather than business customers, or companies which expand their market presence to include business communications.. As the cloud communications services market evolves, combining voice, video, messaging and data networks, and information technology and communication applications, opportunity is created for new competitors to enter the cloud communications services market and offer competing products.  This new competition may take many forms, and may offer products and applications similar to ours. If these new competitors emerge, the cloud communications services market will become increasingly competitive and we may not be able to maintain or improve our market position.  Our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. If we fail to adapt to rapid changes in the market for cloud communications services, then our products and services could become obsolete.. The market for our products and services is constantly and rapidly evolving as we and our competitors introduce new and enhanced products and services and react to changes in the cloud communications services industry and customer demands.  We may not be able to develop or acquire new products and plans or product and plan enhancements that compete effectively with present or emerging cloud communications services technologies or differentiate our products and plans based on functionality and performance. In addition, we may not be able to establish or maintain strategic alliances that will permit enhancement opportunities or innovative distribution methods for our products and plans.. To address these issues, we are targeting revenue growth in large, existing markets, which require us to enhance our current products and plans, and develop new products and plans on a timely basis to keep pace with market needs and satisfy the increasingly sophisticated requirements of customers. If we are unable to attract users of these services our net revenues may fail to grow as we expect.. Cloud communications services are complex, and new products and plans and enhancements to existing products and plans can require long development and testing periods.  Any delays in developing and releasing new or enhanced products and plans could cause us to lose revenue opportunities and customers.  Any technical flaws in products we release could diminish the innovative impact of the products and have a negative effect on customer adoption and our reputation.. We also are subject to the risk of future disruptive technologies.  New products based on new technologies or new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable.  If new technologies develop that are able to deliver competing voice and messaging services at lower prices, better or more conveniently, it could have a material adverse effect on us.. The market for our CPaaS products and platform is relatively nascent and may not experience the growth that we anticipate.. The utilization of APIs to embed contextual, programmable real time communications into mobile apps, websites and business systems workflows, remains a relatively new market, and developers and organizations may not yet recognize the need for, or benefits of, our products and platform.  It is important that we are able to educate developers, organizational leaders, and other potential customers regarding our products and platform in order to help grow the market and to realize our market share, The market for our products and platform or our share of that market could fail to grow significantly.  If the CPaaS market, or our share of that market, does not experience significant growth, then our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. 13       VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2017. Table of Contents. If we are unsuccessful at retaining customers or attracting new consumer or business customers we may experience a reduction in revenue or may be required to spend more money or alter our marketing approaches to grow our customer base.. Our rate of customer terminations for our UCaaS services could increase in the future if customers are not satisfied with the quality and reliability of our network, the value proposition of our products, and the ability of our customer service to meet the needs and expectations of our customers.  For our CPaaS customers, our ability to grow revenue depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and grow usage of our platform by new and existing customers.  If we are not able to increase customer usage of our products, our revenue may decline which would adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Our CPaaS customers are charged based on their usage of our products and generally our customers do not have long-term contractual financial commitments to us, therefore, usage rates may fluctuate at any time.  In addition, our agreements with business customers typically provide for service level commitments.  If we are unable to meet these commitments or if we suffer extended periods of downtime for our products or platform, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.  Our ability to attract and retain customers for our consumer services are impacted by our pricing, brand awareness, customer service, network and system reliability and service features and capabilities.  Competition from traditional telephone companies, cable companies, wireless companies, alternative communication providers, low-cost international calling cards, disruptive technologies, general economic conditions, and our ability to activated and register new customers on our network also influence churn rate.  A material decline in the usage of our business and consumer products could cause us to spend significantly more on sales and marketing than we currently budget in order to maintain or increase revenue from customers, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The success of our CPaaS products depends in part on attracting new customers in a cost-effective manner.  The failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business.. The success of our business relies on our ability to attract new customers in a cost effective manner by using a variety of marketing channels.  We use developer events and developer evangelism, search engine marketing and optimization, and other marketing efforts such as regional customer events, email campaigns, advertising and public relations events.  These methods are prioritized depending on effectiveness and efficiency, and may be altered if costs increase dramatically or if the results do not meet expectations.  Alternative, less expensive channels, may not be as effective as our preferred channels.  Our continued success requires that we continue to attract new customers in a cost-effective manner.  If we fail to do so, our revenues may decrease and our operating results would suffer.. Our success in the cloud communications market for our business services depends in part on developing and maintaining effective distribution channels.  The failure to develop and maintain these channels could materially and adversely affect our business.. A portion of our business revenue is generated through our direct sales, or \"field sales,\" team.   This channel consists of sales agents that market and sell our business services products to customers to customers through direct, commonly face-to-face interaction.  Our continued success requires that we continue developing and maintaining a successful sales organization.  If we fail to do so, or if our sales agents are not successful in their sales efforts, our sales may decrease and our operating results would suffer.. A portion of our business revenue is generated through indirect channel sales.  These channels consist of third-party resellers and value-added distributors that market and sell our business services products to customers. These channels may generate an increasing portion of our business revenue in the future.  Generally, we do not have long-term contracts with these third-party resellers and value-added distributors, and the loss of or reduction in sales through these third parties could materially reduce our revenues.  We also compete for preference amongst our current or potential resellers with our competitors.  Our continued success requires that we continue developing and maintaining successful relationships with these third-party resellers and value-added distributors.  If we fail to do so, or if our resellers are not successful in their sales efforts, our sales may decrease and our operating results would suffer.. We may face difficulties related to the acquisition or integration of businesses, which could harm our growth or operating results.. We have made several acquisitions over the past several years to build our business services and continue to periodically review acquisition opportunities.  Acquisition and integration activities require substantial management time and resources. Acquisitions of existing businesses involve substantial risks, including the risk that we may not be able to integrate the operations, personnel, services, or technologies, the potential disruption of our ongoing businesses, the diversion of management attention, the maximization of financial and strategic opportunities, the difficulty in developing or maintaining controls and procedures, and the dilution to our existing stockholders from the issuance of additional shares of common stock.  We may elect to acquire additional businesses or assets in the future.  However, we cannot predict or guarantee that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate any acquisition.  As a result of these and other risks, we may not produce anticipated revenue, profitability, or synergies.. 14       VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2017. Table of Contents. Acquisitions may require us to issue debt or equity securities, use our cash resources, incur debt or contingent liabilities, amortize intangibles, or write-off acquisition-related expenses. If we are unable to successfully integrate any acquired businesses or assets we may not receive the intended benefits of such acquisition.  In addition, we cannot predict market reactions to any acquisitions we may make or to any failure to announce any future acquisitions.. Further, while we conduct due diligence in connection with acquisition and joint venture opportunities, there may be risks or liabilities that such due diligence efforts fail to discover, are not disclosed to us, or that we inadequately assess.  The discovery of material liabilities associated with acquisitions or joint venture opportunities, economic risks faced by joint venture partners, or any failure of joint venture partners to perform their obligations could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Security breaches and other cybersecurity or technological risks could compromise our information systems and network and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer and which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results.. There are several inherent risks to engaging in a technology business, including our reliance on our data centers and networks, and the use and interconnectivity of those networks.  A significant portion of our operations relies heavily on our ability to provide secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks.  The secure processing, storage, and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy.  As seen in our industry and others, these activities have been, and will continue to be, subject to continually evolving cybersecurity or other technological risks.  Targeted attacks, such as advanced persistent threat is prevalent throughout the Internet and associated with the theft of intellectual property and state-sponsored espionage.  Due to the nature of our business and reliance on the Internet, we are susceptible to this type of attack.  In addition, physical security of devices located within our offices, and/or remote devices, pose cybersecurity and other technological risks that could negatively impact our business and reputation.. We also operate Internet based, worldwide data, voice, video communications, and messaging services and electronic billing, which require the transmission of confidential and at times personal or sensitive customer or employee information over public networks that may or may not support end to end security.  Despite our security measures, which include the development, operation and maintenance of systems and processes that are designed to protect consumer and employee information and prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to error, malfeasance or other disruptions by a current or former employee or third-party provider and our failure to mitigate such fraud or breaches may adversely affect our operating results.  Any such breach could compromise our systems and network and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen.  Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, disruption to our operations, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in our products and services, and our ability to keep personally identifiable information confidential, which could adversely affect our business.. We have been subject to cyber incidents from external sources including \"brute force\" and distributed denial of service attacks, as well as attacks that introduce fraudulent VoiP traffic.  Although these incidents have not had a material adverse effect financially or on our ability to provide services, this may not continue to be the case going forward.  There can be no assurance that cyber incidents will not occur in the future, potentially more frequently and/or on a more significant scale.. We have taken steps designed to improve the security of our networks and computer systems and our physical space.  Despite these defensive measures, there can be no assurance that we are adequately protecting our information or that we will not experience future incidents.   The expenses associated with protecting our information could reduce our operating margins.  We maintain insurance intended to cover some of these risks, however, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our losses from any future breaches of our systems.  In addition, third parties with which we do business may also be sources of cybersecurity or other technological risks.  We outsource certain functions, which results in the storage and processing of customer information by third parties.  While we engage in certain actions to reduce the exposure resulting from outsourcing, unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data or other cyber incidents could occur, resulting in similar costs and consequences as those discussed above.. We make available on our website our privacy policy, which describes how we collect, use, and disclose our customers' personal information.  To the extent we expand our operations into new geographies, we may become subject to local data security, privacy, data retention, and disclosure laws and regulations.  It may be difficult for us to comply with these laws and regulations if they were deemed to be applicable to us. In addition, risks related to cybercrime and fraud increase when establishing a global presence.. 15       VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2017. Table of Contents. We are subject to Payment Card Industry, or PCI, data security standards, which require periodic audits by independent third parties to assess compliance. PCI data security standards are a comprehensive set of requirements for enhancing payment account data security that was developed by the PCI Security Standards Council including American Express, Discover Financial Services, JCB International, MasterCard Worldwide, and VISA Inc., to help facilitate the broad adoption of consistent data security measures.  Failure to comply with the security requirements as identified in subsequent audits or rectify a security issue may result in fines.  While we believe it is unusual, restrictions on accepting payment cards, including a complete restriction, may be imposed on companies that are not compliant.  Further, the law relating to the liability of providers of online payment services is currently unsettled and states may enact their own rules with which we may not comply.. We rely on third party providers to process and guarantee payments made by Vonage and its affiliates' subscribers, up to certain limits, and we may be unable to prevent our customers from fraudulently receiving goods and services.  Our liability risk will increase if a larger fraction of our Vonage transactions involve fraudulent or disputed credit card transactions.  Any costs we incur as a result of fraudulent or disputed transactions could harm our business.  In addition, the functionality of our current billing system relies on certain third party vendors delivering services.  If these vendors are unable or unwilling to provide services, we will not be able to charge for our services in a timely or scalable fashion, which could significantly decrease our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Sales of our business services to medium-sized and enterprise customers involve significant risks which, if not managed effectively, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. As we continue to expand our sales efforts to medium-sized and larger businesses, we may incur higher selling expense and longer, more complex, sales cycles.  Customers in this market segment may also require bespoke features and integration services, increasing the complexity and expense related to the sales and delivery process. As a result, we may devote greater sales and support to these customers, which may result in increased costs and a strain on our support resources. These factors could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and our overall ability to grow our customer base.. Our ability to provide our telephony service and manage related customer accounts is dependent upon third-party facilities, equipment, and systems, the failure of which could cause delays of or interruptions to our service, damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers, limit our growth, and affect our financial condition.. Our success depends on our ability to provide quality and reliable telephony service, which is in part dependent upon the proper functioning of facilities and equipment owned and operated by third parties and is, therefore, beyond our control.  Unlike traditional wireline telephone service or wireless service, our telephony service typically requires our customers to have an operative broadband Internet connection and an electrical power supply, which are provided by the customer's Internet service provider and electric utility company, respectively, and not by us.  The quality of some broadband Internet connections may be too poor for customers to use our telephony services properly. In addition, if there is any interruption to a customer's broadband Internet service or electrical power supply, that customer will be unable to make or receive calls, including emergency calls, using our telephony service.. We outsource several of our network functions to third-party providers.  For example, we outsource the maintenance of our regional data connection points, which are the facilities at which our network interconnects with the public switched telephone network. If our third-party service providers fail to maintain these facilities properly, or fail to respond quickly to problems, our customers may experience service interruptions.  Interruptions in our service caused by third-party facilities have in the past caused and may in the future cause us to lose customers or cause us to offer substantial customer credits, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. If interruptions adversely affect the perceived reliability of our service, we may have difficulty attracting new customers, and our brand, reputation, and growth will be negatively impacted.. In order to access our consumer services, a customer needs to connect a standard telephone to a broadband Internet connection through a Vonage-enabled device that we provide.  Although we closely monitor inventory levels, if we are unable to procure a sufficient number of devices from our suppliers in a timely manner, including as a result of a failure by a component supplier, we would be delayed in activating new customers and may lose these customers.. While we believe that relations with our current third party providers are good, and we have contracts in place with these vendors, there can be no guarantee that these third party providers will be able or willing to supply services to us in the future on commercially reasonable terms, or that we will be able to engage alternative or additional providers.  We believe that we could replace our current third party providers, however, our ability to provide our services may be impacted during any transition, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 16       VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2017. Table of Contents. We rely on third-party vendors that may be difficult to replace or may not perform adequately.. For our CPaaS customers, we rely on Softlayer to provide substantially all of the cloud infrastructure that hosts our CPaaS products and platform.  Our CPaaS customers require uninterrupted performance of this platform and we are therefore vulnerable to service interruptions at Softlayer.  We may experience interruptions, delays and outages in Softlayer's service and availability due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, website hosting disruptions and capacity constraints caused by technical failures, natural disasters, fraud or security attacks.  To the extent that we do not effectively address interruptions, delays and outages in Softlayer's service and availability or capacity constraints, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. In some cases we rely on purchased or leased hardware and software licensed from third parties in order to provide our UCaaS services.  For example, Broadsoft, Inc. provides us with infrastructure, call termination and origination services, and other hardware and software in connection with our Vonage Enterprise offerings.  We also integrate third-party licensed software components into our platform.  This hardware and software may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or pricing or may fail to continue to be updated to remain competitive.  The loss of the right to use this third party hardware or software may increase our expenses or impact the provisioning of our services.  The failure of this third party hardware or software could materially impact the performance of our UCaaS services and may cause material harm to our business or results of operations.. We outsource some of our cloud infrastructure to Amazon Web Services, or AWS, which hosts certain of our products and platform.  Customers of our products need to be able to access our platform at any time, without interruption or degradation of performance.  AWS runs its own platform that we access, and we are, therefore, vulnerable to service interruptions at AWS.  To the extent that we do not effectively address capacity constraints, either through AWS or alternative providers of cloud infrastructure, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, any changes in service levels from AWS may adversely affect our ability to meet our customers' requirements.. Flaws in our technology and systems or our failure to adapt our systems to any new Internet Protocol could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers, and limit our growth.. Although we have designed our service network to reduce the possibility of disruptions or other outages, our service may be disrupted by problems with our technology and systems that we provide to customers, software or facilities and overloading of our network.  As we attract new subscribers, we expect increased call volume that we need to manage to avoid network interruptions.  Interruptions have caused and may in the future cause us to lose customers and offer substantial customer credits, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability.  Network interruptions have also impaired our ability at times to sign-up new customers and the ability of customers to manage their accounts.  If service interruptions or other outages adversely affect the perceived reliability of our service or customer service, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining customers and our brand reputation and growth may suffer.. In addition, we utilize third-party Internet-based or \"cloud\" computing services in connection with some of our business operations.  Any disruption to the internet or to our third-party Web hosting or cloud computing providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, could adversely impact the experience of our customers and have adverse effects on our operations.  In addition, fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, and similar \"Acts of God\" could damage these systems and hardware or cause them to fail completely.  While we do maintain redundant systems consistent with industry best practices certain events could result in downtime for our operations and could adversely affect our business.. Our Business segment is growing rapidly, and any inability to scale our business and grow efficiently could materially and adversely harm our business and results of operations.. As our Business segment expands, we will need to continue to improve our application architecture, integrate our products and applications across our technology platforms, integrate with third-party systems, and maintain infrastructure performance.  We expect the number of users, the amount of data transferred and processed, the number of locations where our service is being used, and the volume of communications over our networks to continue to expand.  To address this growth, we will need to scale our systems and customer services organization.  Our ability to execute on these initiatives may impact system and network performance, customer satisfaction, and ultimately, sales and revenue.  These efforts may also divert management resources.  These factors may materially and adversely harm our business and results of operations.. 17       VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2017. Table of Contents. We depend on third party vendors to supply, configure and deliver the phones that we sell.  Any delays in delivery, or failure to operate effectively with our own servers and systems, may result in delay or failure of our services, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on Yealink Inc. and Polycom, Inc. to provide, and a single fulfillment agent to configure and deliver, the phones that we offer for sale to our customers that use our UCaaS services.  If these third parties are unable to deliver phones of acceptable quality or quantity, or in a timely manner, we may be forced to offer replacements at a higher cost than what is currently contracted. In addition, these phones must interoperate with our servers and systems.  If either of our providers changes the operation of their phones, we may be required to engage in development efforts to ensure that the new phones interoperate with our system.  The failure of our vendor-supplied phones to operate effectively with our system could impact our customers' ability to use our services and could cause customers to cancel our services, which may cause material harm to our business or results of operations.. We market our products and services to small and medium-sized businesses, which may be disproportionately impacted by fluctuations in economic conditions.. We market our products to small and medium-sized businesses.  Customers in this market may be affected by economic downturns to a greater extent, and may have more limited financial resources, than larger or more established businesses.  If customers in our Business markets experience financial hardship as a result of a weak economy, the demand for our services could be materially and adversely affected.. The storage, processing, and use of personal information and related data subjects us to evolving governmental laws and regulation, commercial standards, contractual obligations, and other legal obligations related to consumer and data privacy, which may have a material impact on our costs, use of our products and services, or expose us to increased liability.. Federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, commercial obligations and industry standards, each provide for obligations and restrictions with respect to data privacy and security, as well as the collection, storage, retention, protection, use, processing, transmission, sharing, disclosure and protection of personal information and other customer data.  The evolving nature of these obligations and restrictions dictates that differing interpretations, inconsistency or conflicts among countries or rules, and general uncertainty impact the application to our business.. These obligations and restrictions may limit our ability to collect, store, process, use, transmit and share data with our customers, employees, and third party providers and to allow our customers to collect, store, retain, protect, use, process, transmit, share and disclose data with others through our products and services. Compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such obligations and restrictions could increase the cost of our operations and impact our ability to market our products and services through effective segmentation.. Examples of key data privacy and security related obligations and restrictions include the European Union General Data Protection Regulation, GDPR.  The GDPR was adopted in April 2016 and comprehensively regulates the processing of personal data of any individual residing in the EU.  The GDPR effectively requires any company processing data of EU individuals to develop a comprehensive privacy program.  The GDPR becomes effective on May 25, 2018.  In addition, in January 2017, the European Commission introduced a new proposed ePrivacy regulation that would restrict communications service provider's ability to use metadata and content from communications services.  In order to become effective, the proposal needs to be adopted by the European Council and European Parliament.  In October 2016, the Federal Communications Commission adopted a new privacy rules for the U.S. communications industry.  These rules greatly extended the scope of FCC privacy regulation.  Numerous parties have filed petitions for reconsideration at the FCC on the new privacy rules.. Failure to comply with obligations and restrictions related to applicable data protection laws, regulations, standards, and codes of conduct, as well as our own posted privacy policies and contractual commitments could subject us to lawsuits, fines, criminal penalties, statutory damages, consent decrees, injunctions, adverse publicity, loss of user confidence in our services, and loss of users, which could materially harm our business.   Additionally, third-party contractors may have access to customer or employee data.  If these or other third-party vendors violate obligations and restrictions related to applicable data protection laws or our policies, such violations may also put our customers' or employees' information at risk and could in turn have a material and adverse effect on our business.. 18       VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2017. Table of Contents. If we fail to protect our internally developed systems, technology, and software and our trademarks, we may become involved in costly litigation or our business or brand may be harmed.. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent in large part upon the maintenance and protection of systems and software that we have developed internally based on open standards.  While we own over 185 issued U.S. patents as well as a number of foreign patents and more than 60 pending U.S. patent applications along with a number of foreign patent applications, we cannot patent much of the technology that is important to our business.  Our pending patent applications may not be granted.  Any issued patent that we own may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, or circumvented.  To date, we have relied on patent, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our rights to this technology.  We typically enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, customers, partners, and vendors in an effort to control access to and distribution of technology, software, documentation, and other information.  Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use this technology without authorization. Policing unauthorized use of this technology is difficult.  The steps we take may not prevent misappropriation of the technology we rely on. In addition, effective protection may be unavailable or limited in some jurisdictions outside the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom.  Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or protect our rights or to determine the validity and scope of the rights of others.  That litigation could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert resources away from our daily business, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business.. The unlicensed use of our brands by third parties could harm our reputation, cause confusion among our customers, and impair our ability to market our services.  To that end, we have registered numerous trademarks and service marks and have applied for registration of our trademarks and service marks in the United States and abroad to establish and protect our brand names as part of our intellectual property strategy.  If our applications receive objections or are successfully opposed by third parties, it may be difficult for us to prevent third parties from using our brand without our permission.  Moreover, successful opposition to our applications might encourage third parties to make additional oppositions or commence trademark infringement proceedings against us, which could be costly and time consuming to defend against.  If we decide to take limited or no action to protect our trademarks, our trademark rights may be diluted and subject to challenge or invalidation, which could materially and adversely affect our brand in the marketplace.. Third parties may fraudulently use our name to obtain access to customer accounts and other personal information, use our services to commit fraud or steal our services or equipment, which could damage our reputation, limit our growth, and cause us to incur additional expenses.. Our customers have been subject to \"phishing,\" which occurs when a third party calls or sends an email or pop-up message to a customer that claims to be from a business or organization that provides services to the customer.  The purpose of the inquiry is typically to encourage the customer to visit a bogus website designed to look like a website operated by the legitimate business or organization or provide information to the operator.  At the bogus website, the operator attempts to trick the customer into divulging customer account or other personal information such as credit card information or to introduce viruses through \"Trojan horse\" programs to the customers' computers.  This has resulted in identity theft from our customers and the unauthorized use of Vonage services.  Third parties have also used our communications services to commit fraud. Although we have engaged a third party to assist in the shutdown of purported phishing sites, if we are unable to detect and prevent \"phishing,\" use of our services for fraud, and similar activities, our brand reputation and growth may suffer and we may incur additional costs, including costs to increase security, or be required to credit significant amounts to customers.. Third parties also have used our communications services and obtained delivery of our equipment without paying, including by submitting fraudulent credit card information.  This has resulted in our incurring the cost of providing the services, including incurring call termination fees, or providing the equipment without any corresponding revenues.  We have implemented anti-fraud procedures in order to limit the expenses resulting from theft of service or equipment.  If our procedures are not effective, theft of service or equipment could significantly increase our expenses and negatively impact our profitability.. 19       VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2017. Table of Contents. We may be subject to damaging and disruptive intellectual property disputes that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition, as well as the continued viability of our company.. There has been substantial litigation in the cloud communications, UCaaS, VoIP, telecommunications, hosted services, and related industries regarding intellectual property rights and, given the rapid technological change in our industry, expansion into new technological and geographical markets, and our continual development of new products and services, we and/or our commercial partners may be subject to infringement claims from time to time.  For example, we may be unaware of filed patent applications and issued patents that could include claims that might be interpreted to cover our products and services.  We have been subject to patent infringement claims in the past, are currently named as a defendant in several proceedings that relate to alleged patent infringement, and from time to time we receive letters from third parties offering an opportunity for us to obtain licenses to patents that may be relevant to our business or alleging that our services infringe upon third party patents or other intellectual property. We may seek to obtain rights to third party technology in the future, but may not be able to agree upon commercially reasonable terms or at all with respect to obtaining such rights. If we are unable to extend existing licenses or are unable to obtain rights to other technology that may be commercially advantageous or necessary for our product and service offerings, we may experience a decrease in the quality of our products or services or we may lose the ability to provide our products and services on a non-infringing basis until alternative technology or suitable alternative products and services can be developed, identified, obtained either through acquisition, license or other grants of rights, and integrated.. Parties making claims of infringement may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide our services and could cause us to pay substantial royalties, licensing fees, damages or settlement fees.  Our agreements with certain customers, vendors, or partners may obligate us to defend or indemnify them in connection with such claims of infringement, further increasing our costs of defense and potential liability.  Although we generally limit our contractual liability regarding such obligations, we may incur significant liability with respect to them, and disputes with our customers, vendors or partners over such obligations may have an adverse relationship on our relations with those entities.  The defense of any lawsuit could divert management's efforts and attention from ordinary business operations and result in time-consuming and expensive litigation, regardless of the merits of such claims.  These outcomes may:. • result in the loss of a substantial number of existing customers or prohibit the acquisition of new customers;. • cause us to accelerate expenditures to preserve existing revenues;. • cause existing or new vendors to require prepayments or letters of credit;. • cause our credit card processors to demand reserves or letters of credit or make holdbacks;. • result in substantial employee layoffs;. • materially and adversely affect our brand in the marketplace and cause a substantial loss of goodwill;. • cause our stock price to decline significantly;. • materially and adversely affect our liquidity, including our ability to pay debts and other obligations as they become due;. • cause us to change our business methods or services;. • require us to cease certain business operations or offering certain products and services; and. • lead to our bankruptcy or liquidation.. We rely on third parties to provide a portion of our customer service representatives, provide aspects of our E-911 service, which differs from traditional 911 service, and initiate local number portability for our customers.  If these third parties do not provide our customers with reliable, high-quality service, our reputation will be harmed and we may lose customers.. We offer our customers support 24 hours a day, seven days a week through both our comprehensive online account management website and our toll free number.  Our customer support is currently provided via United States based employees as well as third party partners located in the United States, Philippines, Costa Rica, Chile, Mexico, and India. We can offer support in English, Spanish, and French Canadian.  Our third-party providers generally represent us without identifying themselves as independent parties.  The ability to support our customers may be disrupted by natural disasters, inclement weather conditions, civil unrest, and other adverse events in the locations where our customer support is provided.. We also contract for services required to provide E-911 services including assistance in routing emergency calls, terminating E-911 calls, operating a national call center that is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week to receive certain emergency calls, and maintaining PSAP databases for the purpose of deploying and operating E-911 services.  Interruptions in service from our vendor could cause failures in our customers' access to E-911 services and expose us to liability and damage our reputation.. We also have agreements with companies that initiate our local number portability, which allow new customers to retain their existing telephone numbers when subscribing to our services.. 20       VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2017. Table of Contents. If any of these third parties do not provide reliable, high-quality service, our reputation and our business will be harmed. In addition, industry consolidation among providers of services to us may impact our ability to obtain these services or increase our expense for these services.. Our services are subject to regulation in the United States, United Kingdom, and Canada, and future legislative, regulatory or judicial actions could adversely affect our business and expose us to liability.. Our business has developed in a relatively lightly regulated environment. However, the United States, United Kingdom, and Canada have applied some traditional telephone company regulations to VoIP and continue to evaluate how VoIP should be regulated. The effects of future regulatory developments are uncertain.  At the federal level in the U.S., the Federal Communications Commission has imposed certain telecommunications regulations on VoIP services including:. • Requirements to provide E-911 service;. • Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act obligations;. • Obligation to support Universal Service;. • Customer Proprietary Network Information, or CPNI, requirements;. • Disability access obligations;. • Local Number Portability requirements;. • Service discontinuance notification obligations;. • Outage reporting requirements; and. • Rural call completion reporting and rules related to ring signal integrity.. In general, the focus of interconnected VoIP telecommunications regulation is at the federal level.  On November 12, 2004, the FCC issued a declaratory ruling providing that our service is subject to federal regulation and preempted the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission from imposing certain of its regulations on us.  While this ruling does not exempt us from all state oversight of our service, it effectively prevents state telecommunications regulators from imposing certain burdensome and inconsistent market entry requirements and certain other state utility rules and regulations on our service.  As such, Vonage is subject to relatively few state regulatory requirements including:. • Payment of state and local E-911 fees; and. • State Universal Service support obligations.. In Canada, the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission, or CRTC. regulates VoIP service. CRTC VoIP regulations include:. • Requirement to provide 911 service; and. • Local Number Portability requirements.. In the UK, we are subject to regulation in the UK by the Office of Communications, or OFCOM. OFCOM VoIP regulations include:. • Requirement to provide 999/112 service; and. • Number Portability requirements.. Vonage seeks to comply with all applicable regulatory requirements.  We could, however, be subject to regulatory enforcement action if a regulator does not believe that we are complying with applicable regulations.. In addition, the regulatory framework for VoIP service is still evolving and it is possible that Vonage could be subject to additional regulatory obligations and/or existing regulatory obligations could be modified or expanded particularly at the state and local level.  For instance, several states public utility commissions are attempting to regulate 'fixed' VoIP provided by cable companies versus the nomadic nature of Vonage's services.  These states believe that the FCC's 2004 Vonage Preemption Order did not preempt regulation of these 'fixed' services.  The effects of future regulatory developments are uncertain.  Future legislative, judicial or other regulatory actions could have a negative effect on our business.  If we become subject to the rules and regulations applicable to telecommunications providers in individual states, we may incur significant litigation and compliance costs, and we may have to restructure our service offerings, exit certain markets, or raise the price of our services, any of which could cause our services to be less attractive to customers. In addition, future regulatory developments could increase our cost of doing business and limit our growth.. 21       VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2017. Table of Contents. The regulatory framework for CPaaS services is not developed; future legislative, regulatory or judicial actions on CPaaS could adversely affect our business and expose us to liability.. In most countries where we offer CPaaS products, it is not clear how CPaaS fits into the communications regulatory framework.  Regulators could claim that our CPaaS products are subject to licensing and substantive communications regulatory requirements or could modify their regulatory requirements to make it clear that CPaaS products are covered.. Future legislative, judicial or other regulatory actions could have a negative effect on our business.  If our CPaaS products become subject to the rules and regulations applicable to communications providers, we may incur significant litigation and compliance costs, and we may have to restructure our service offerings, exit certain markets, or raise the price of our services, any of which could cause our services to be less attractive to customers.  In addition, future regulatory developments could increase our cost of doing business and limit our growth.. Customer misuse of our CPaaS products in violation of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act may cause us to face litigation risk.. The Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 restricts telemarketing and the use of automatic SMS text messages without proper consent.  The scope and interpretation of the laws that are or may be applicable to the delivery of text messages are continuously evolving and developing.  If we do not comply with these laws or regulations or if we become liable under these laws or regulations due to the failure of our customers to comply with these laws by obtaining proper consent, we could face liability.. Our business is subject to country-specific governmental regulation and related actions and taxes that may increase our costs or impact our product offerings.. In the United States, Canada, and United Kingdom, we are not a regulated telecommunications business subject primarily to regulations surrounding provision of emergency services and payment into universal service type funds.  Our services are also in use in countries outside of the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom, including countries where providing VoIP services is or may be illegal. We may need to change our service offerings to avoid regulation as a telecommunications business in a jurisdiction, or if we are treated as a fully regulated telecommunications business, we may be required to incur additional expenses.  In addition, if governments believe that we are providing unauthorized service in their countries, they may pursue fines, penalties, or other governmental action, including criminal action, that may damage our brand and reputation.  If we use a local partner to provide services in a country and the local partner does not comply with applicable governmental regulations, we may face additional regulation, liabilities, penalties or other governmental action, and our brand and reputation may be harmed.. In addition to the risk of being directly subjected to regulation, decisions by foreign regulators to increase the charge for terminating international calls into their countries could cause increased costs, impact margin, and impact churn.  These regulatory actions may be taken without notice and cause us to react quickly to changing market conditions.  These efforts could divert management's efforts and attention from ordinary business operations which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. As a United States-based company, any foreign subsidiary or joint venture that we use for international operations may be subject to a variety of governmental regulations in the countries where we market our products, including tariffs, taxes and employment regulations different from those in the U.S.  For example, distributions of earnings and other payments, including interest, received from our foreign subsidiaries may be subject to withholding taxes imposed by the jurisdiction in which such entities are formed or operating, which will reduce the amount of after-tax cash we can receive.  In general, as a United States corporation, we may claim a foreign tax credit against our federal income tax expense for such foreign withholding taxes and for foreign income taxes paid directly by foreign corporate entities in which we own 10% or more of the voting stock.  The ability to claim such foreign tax credits and to utilize net foreign losses is, however, subject to numerous limitations, and we may incur incremental tax costs as a result of these limitations or because we are not currently in a tax-paying position in the United States.  We may also be required to include in our income for United States federal income tax purposes our proportionate share of certain earnings of those foreign subsidiaries that are classified as \"controlled foreign corporations\" without regard to whether distributions have been actually received from such subsidiaries.. Our CPaaS offerings may be subject to liability for historic and future sales, use and similar taxes, that may increase our costs or impact our product offerings.. In some United States tax jurisdictions in which we conduct operations, sales and use and telecommunications taxes could apply to our CPaaS products.  Historically, we have not billed or collected these taxes from our CPaaS customers.  It is possible that some tax jurisdictions may assert that such taxes are applicable to our CPaaS products, which could result in tax assessments, penalties and interest, and we may be required to collect such taxes on our CPaaS customers in the future.  Such tax assessments, penalties and interest or future requirements may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  To the extent that we decide to collect such taxes from our CPaaS customers in the future, we may have some customers that question the incremental tax charges and some may seek to negotiate lower pricing from us, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 22       VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2017. Table of Contents. The global scope of our operations may subject us to potentially adverse tax consequences.. We generally report our taxable income in various jurisdictions worldwide based upon our business operations in those jurisdictions. Intercompany relationships are subject to complex transfer pricing regulations in various jurisdictions.  If revenue and taxing authorities disagree with positions we have taken we could be required to pay additional taxes, interest and penalties, which could result in one-time tax charges, higher effective tax rates, reduced cash flows and lower overall profitability of our operations.  In addition, changes in tax laws of countries in which we do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could increase our liabilities for taxes, interest and penalties, and therefore could harm our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial position.. We may be exposed to liabilities under anti-corruption, export control and economic sanction regulations, and similar laws and regulations, and any determination that we violated any of these laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, or FCPA, the UK Bribery Act and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials, political parties, and/or private parties by persons and entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties, and make sales internationally.  In addition, we plan to expand our international operations through potential joint ventures with local partners.  Our international activities create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, partners, sales agents or distributors, even though these parties are not always subject to our control.  It is our policy to prohibit these practices by our employees, consultants, partners, sales agents or distributors, however, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and our employees, consultants, partners, sales agents or distributors may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible.  Violations of the FCPA, the UK Bribery Act or other laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.. Our products and services may be subject to export control and economic sanctions regulations, including the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, U.S. Customs regulations and various economic and trade sanctions regulations administered by the U.S.  Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Controls.  Our products and services must be offered and sold in compliance with these laws and regulations.  If we do not comply with these laws or regulations or if we become liable under these laws or regulations due to the failure of our customers to comply with these laws by obtaining proper consent, we could face liability. In addition, changes in our products or services, changes in applicable regulations, or change in the target of such regulations, could also result in decreased use of our products and services, or in our decreased ability to sell our products or provide our services to existing or prospective customers with international operations.  Any decreased use of our products and services or limitation on our ability to export our products and provide our services could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The success of our business relies on customers' continued and unimpeded access to broadband service. Providers of broadband services may be able to block our services or charge their customers more for also using our services, which could adversely affect our revenue and growth.. Our customers must have broadband access to the Internet in order to use our service.  Some providers of broadband access, including outside of the United States, may take measures that affect their customers' ability to use our service, such as degrading the quality of the data packets we transmit over their lines, giving those packets low priority, giving other packets higher priority than ours, blocking our packets entirely or attempting to charge their customers more for also using our services.. In the United States, there continues to be some uncertainty regarding whether suppliers of broadband Internet access have a legal obligation to allow their customers to access and use our service without interference.  On February 26, 2015, the FCC adopted neutrality rules that would protect against interference by suppliers of broadband Internet access.  On December 14, 2017, the FCC voted to reverse its 2015 neutrality rules.  The FCC's recent reversal of its stance on net neutrality may have a negative long term impact on businesses such as ours who rely on the Internet to create and deliver products and services.  Challenges to the FCC's ruling are underway, with public interest groups, states, local municipalities and companies seeking redress in the courts and/or through legislation.. 23       VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2017. Table of Contents. An unremediated material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely affect our reputation, business or stock price.. As described under Item 9A - Controls and Procedures, we identified a control deficiency constituting a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to our controls over the preparation of the annual tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2016.  A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Although we remediated this material weakness during 2017, we cannot assure you that we will not identify additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. If we are unable to remediate any future material weakness, our ability to record, process and report financial information accurately, and to prepare financial statements within the time periods specified by the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission, could be adversely affected. The occurrence of or failure to remediate any future material weakness may adversely affect our reputation and business and the market price of our common stock and any other securities we may issue.. The debt agreements governing our financing contain restrictions that may limit our flexibility in operating our business or executing on our acquisition strategy.. On June 3, 2016, we entered into Amendment No. 1 to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, or the 2016 Credit Facility, consisting of a $125,000 senior secured term loan and a $325,000 revolving credit facility.  The 2016 Credit Facility contains customary representations and warranties and affirmative covenants that limit our ability and/or the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to engage in specified types of transactions.  These covenants and other restrictions may under certain circumstances limit, but not necessarily preclude, our and certain of our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things:. • consolidate or merge;. • create liens;. • incur additional indebtedness;. • dispose of assets;. • consummate acquisitions;. • make investments; or. • pay dividends and other distributions.. Under the 2016 Credit Facility, we are required to comply with the following financial covenants: specified maximum consolidated leverage ratio, specified minimum consolidated fixed coverage charge ratio, minimum cash position and maximum capital expenditures.  Our ability to comply with such financial and other covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, so we may not be able to comply with these covenants.  A breach of any such covenant could result in a default under the 2016 Credit Facility.  In that case, the lenders could elect to declare due and payable immediately all amounts due under the 2016 Credit Facility, including principal and accrued interest.. Significant foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial results.. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies in which we transact business could materially adversely affect our financial results.  For example, Nexmo collects revenues in Euros, and accordingly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to the Euro adversely affects our revenue and operating results presented in U.S. dollars.  In addition, on June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum in which a majority of voters approved an exit from the European Union, or E.U., commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\"  As a result of the referendum, it is expected that the British government will begin negotiating the terms of the U.K.'s withdrawal from the E.U. Brexit caused significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies in which we conduct business, such as the British Pound, Euro and other currencies.  Such strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies may adversely affect our revenue and operating results.  In addition, changes to U.K. border and immigration policy could likewise occur as a result of Brexit, affecting our U.K. operation's ability to recruit and retain employees from outside the U.K.. If we require additional capital, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all.. We may need to pursue additional financing to respond to new competitive pressures, pay extraordinary expenses such as litigation settlements or judgments or fund growth, including through acquisitions.  Because of our past significant losses and our limited tangible assets, we do not fit traditional credit lending criteria, which, in particular, could make it difficult for us to obtain loans or to access the capital markets.  In addition, the credit documentation for our recent financing contains affirmative and negative covenants that affect, and in many respects may significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our and certain of our subsidiaries' ability to incur, refinance or modify indebtedness and create liens.. 24       VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2017. Table of Contents. Our credit card processors have the ability to impose significant holdbacks in certain circumstances. The reinstatement of such holdbacks likely would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity.. Under our credit card processing agreements with our Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and Discover credit card processors, the credit card processor has the right, in certain circumstances, including adverse events affecting our business, to impose a holdback of our advanced payments purchased using a Visa, MasterCard, American Express, or Discover credit card, as applicable, or demand additional reserves or other security.  If circumstances were to occur that would allow any of these processors to reinstate a holdback, the negative impact on our liquidity likely would be significant.  In addition, our Visa and MasterCard credit card processing agreement may be terminated by the credit card processor at its discretion if we are deemed to be financially insecure.  As a significant portion of payments to us are made through Visa and MasterCard credit cards, if the credit card processor does not assist in transitioning our business to another credit card processor, the negative impact on our liquidity likely would be significant.  There were no cash reserves and cash-collateralized letters of credit with any credit card processors as of December 31, 2017.. We have incurred cumulative losses since our inception and may not achieve consistent profitability in the future.. We incurred a net loss attributable to Vonage of $33,933 for the year ended December 31, 2017 and our accumulated deficit is $672,561 from our inception through December 31, 2017.  Although we have achieved profitability in prior years and believe we will achieve consistent profitability in the future, we ultimately may not be successful.  We believe that our ability to achieve consistent profitability will depend, among other factors, on our ability to continue to achieve and maintain substantive operational improvements and structural cost reductions while maintaining and growing our net revenues. In addition, certain of the costs of our business are not within our control and may increase.  For example, we and other telecommunications providers are subject to regulatory termination charges imposed by regulatory authorities in countries to which customers make calls.. We may be unable to fully realize the benefits of our net operating loss, or NOL, carry forwards if an ownership change occurs.. If we were to experience a \"change in ownership\" under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, or Section 382, the NOL carry forward limitations under Section 382 would impose an annual limit on the amount of the future taxable income that may be offset by our NOL generated prior to the change in ownership.  If a change in ownership were to occur, we may be unable to use a significant portion of our NOL to offset future taxable income.  In general, a change in ownership occurs when, as of any testing date, there has been a cumulative change in the stock ownership of the corporation held by 5% stockholders of more than 50 percentage points over an applicable three-year period.  For these purposes, a 5% stockholder is generally any person or group of persons that at any time during an applicable three-year period has owned 5% or more of our outstanding common stock.  In addition, persons who own less than 5% of the outstanding common stock are grouped together as one or more \"public group\" 5% stockholders.  Under Section 382, stock ownership would be determined under complex attribution rules and generally includes shares held directly, indirectly though intervening entities, and constructively by certain related parties and certain unrelated parties acting as a group.  We have implemented a Tax Benefits Preservation Plan intended to provide a meaningful deterrent effect against acquisitions that could cause a change in ownership, however this is not a guarantee against such a change in ownership.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the agreements governing our indebtedness contain provisions that could delay or discourage a takeover attempt, which could prevent the completion of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a substantial premium over the then-current market price for their shares.. Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and our second amended and restated bylaws may make it more difficult for, or have the effect of discouraging, a third party from acquiring control of us or changing our board of directors and management.  These provisions:. • permit our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock and preferred stock and to establish the number of shares, series designation, voting powers if any, preferences, other special rights, qualifications, limitations or restrictions of any series of preferred stock;. • limit the ability of stockholders to amend our restated certificate of incorporation and second amended and restated bylaws, including supermajority requirements;. • allow only our board of directors, Chairman of the board of directors or Chief Executive Officer to call special meetings of our stockholders;. • eliminate the ability of stockholders to act by written consent;. • require advance notice for stockholder proposals and director nominations;. • limit the removal of directors and the filling of director vacancies; and. • establish a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms.. 25       VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2017. Table of Contents. Such provisions could have the effect of depriving stockholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices.  Any delay or prevention of, or significant payments required to be made upon, a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors or management could deter potential acquirors or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a substantial premium over the then-current market price for their shares."
