[1] "Item 1A.     Risk Factors. We face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our business, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal, regulatory and reputational risks. The following are some of the more important factors that could affect our business.. 42. Risks Related to Our Business - General. We may not complete the CBVA and Annuity Transaction on the terms or timing currently contemplated, or at all, and the Transaction could have negative impacts on us.. As further described under \"Item 1 - Business - Organizational History and Structure - CBVA and Annuity Transaction\", on December 20, 2017, we entered into the Transaction with VA Capital and Athene, pursuant to which VA Capital's wholly owned subsidiary, Venerable, will acquire certain of our assets, including all of the shares of the capital stock of VIAC, our Iowa-domiciled insurance subsidiary, and all of the membership interest of DSL, a broker-dealer subsidiary, and which will result in the disposition of substantially all of the Company's variable annuity and fixed and fixed indexed annuity businesses and related assets.. While the Transaction is expected to close in the second or third quarters of 2018, the consummation of the closing under the MTA is subject to conditions specified in the MTA, including the receipt of required regulatory approvals, and conditions that could allow us or VA Capital not to close if the amount of capital we or they would be required to fund in connection with the closing of the Transaction would exceed certain thresholds.. Unanticipated developments could also delay, prevent or otherwise adversely affect the currently proposed closing, including possible problems or delays in obtaining various state insurance or other regulatory approvals, and disruptions in the capital and financial markets. Therefore, the Company cannot provide any assurance that this transaction will occur on the terms described herein or at all.. The purchase price in the Transaction is equal to the difference between the Required Adjusted Book Value (as defined in the MTA) and the Statutory capital in VIAC at closing. The Required Adjusted Book Value is based on, subject to certain adjustments, the CTE95 standard which is a statistical tail risk measure under the S&P model which follows the Risk Based capital C-3 Phase II guidelines as stipulated by the NAIC.. The MTA contains limits on the amount of additional capital we could be required to contribute to meet any increases in the Required Adjusted Book Value and on the amount of capital in excess of such amount that VA Capital could be required to compensate us for if such excess capital were to become trapped in VIAC prior to Transaction closing, in each case subject to certain termination rights.. In order to position ourselves for the proposed closing, we are actively pursuing strategic, structural and process realignment and restructuring actions within our former CBVA and Annuities segments. These actions could lead to disruptions of our operations, loss of, or inability to recruit, key personnel needed to operate our businesses and complete the Transaction, weakening of our internal standards, controls or procedures, and impairment of our relationship with key customers and counterparties. We have and will continue to incur significant expenses in connection with the Transaction, whether or not it closes.. In addition, we may face difficulties attracting or retaining third-party affiliate relationships through which we distribute our products and services. As a result of the Transaction, we have seen a reduction in our distributor network for annuities products. Additional distributors may in the future elect to suspend, alter, reduce or terminate, their distribution relationships with us for various reasons, including uncertainty related to the Transaction, changes in our distribution strategy, potential adverse developments in our business, potential adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks.. We may also not achieve certain of the benefits that we expect in connection with the Transaction, including expected revenues from the appointment of Voya IM or its affiliated advisors as the preferred asset management partner for Venerable, and the achievement of projected targets at our remaining businesses despite our additional focus on those businesses. In addition, completion of the Transaction will require significant amounts of our management's time and effort which may divert management's attention from operating and growing our remaining businesses and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally have affected and may continue to affect our business and results of operations.. Our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally. Subdued growth rates globally and the uncertain consequences of evolving monetary policies among the world's large central banks could create economic disruption, decrease asset prices, increase market volatility and potentially affect the availability and cost of credit.. 43. Although we carry out business almost exclusively in the United States, we are affected by both domestic and international macroeconomic developments. Domestically, the U.S. has experienced a modest increase in economic growth. With the domestic economy approaching full employment, the Federal Reserve has continued its unwind of extraordinary monetary accommodation implemented in the wake of the 2008-2009 recession.  In the short to medium term, the Federal Reserve has indicated that it will seek to balance the pace of its policy unwind to achieve its dual mandate of low and stable inflation and full employment. After an extended period of extraordinary accommodation and the resulting low financial market volatility, an unprecedented unwind could result in increased pricing fluctuations for financial securities, including those in which we invest. In the longer term, persistent government budget deficits and unchecked entitlement spending could raise concerns about debt sustainability and weaken economic growth potential.. Internationally, the global economy is currently experiencing an upturn in economic growth after an extended period of below normal growth. The unwind of continued extraordinary monetary accommodation in the U.S. and the beginning of the reduction of monetary support in the European Union could result in increased volatility in interest rates, currencies, and trade flows. The ongoing economic transition in China from a capital intensive, export-focused economy to a more balanced economy driven by the domestic consumer continues to raise concerns about rising domestic debt levels and the stability of asset credit markets, which could have global consequences.. In recent times, political events have increasingly threatened the cohesiveness of the European Union, and are likely to result in the cessation or rollback of the political and economic integration of Europe that has occurred over the past several decades. In particular, the results of the \"Brexit\" referendum held by the United Kingdom in 2016 and the U.K. government's declared intention to withdraw from the EU could have substantial adverse consequences for the U.K. and European economies. The financial and political turmoil in Europe continues to be a long-term threat to global capital markets and remains a challenge to global financial stability.. More generally, the international system has in recent years faced heightened geopolitical risk, most notably in Eastern Europe and the Middle East, but also in Africa and Southeast Asia, and events in any one of these regions could give rise to an increase in market volatility or a decrease in global economic output.. Even in the absence of a market downturn, our insurance, annuity, retirement and investment products, as well as our investment returns and our access to and cost of financing, are sensitive to equity, fixed income, real estate and other market fluctuations and general economic and political conditions. These fluctuations and conditions could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, including in the following respects:. • We provide a number of insurance, annuity, retirement and investment products that expose us to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates, market indices, securities prices, default rates, the value of real estate assets, currency exchange rates and credit spreads. The profitability of many of our insurance, annuity, retirement and investment products depends in part on the value of the general accounts and separate accounts supporting them, which may fluctuate substantially depending on the foregoing conditions.. • Volatility or downturns in the equity markets can cause a reduction in fee income we earn from managing investment portfolios for third parties and fee income on certain annuity, retirement and investment products. Because these products and services generate fees related primarily to the value of AUM, a decline in the equity markets could reduce our revenues because of the reduction in the value of the investments we manage.. • A change in market conditions, including prolonged periods of high or low inflation or interest rates, could cause a change in consumer sentiment and adversely affect sales and could cause the actual persistency of these products to vary from their anticipated persistency (the probability that a product will remain in force from one period to the next) and adversely affect profitability. Changing economic conditions or adverse public perception of financial institutions can influence customer behavior, which can result in, among other things, an increase or decrease in claims, lapses, withdrawals, deposits or surrenders in certain products, any of which could adversely affect profitability.. • An equity market decline, decreases in prevailing interest rates, or a prolonged period of low interest rates could result in the value of guaranteed minimum benefits contained in certain of our life insurance, annuity and retirement products being higher than current account values or higher than anticipated in our pricing assumptions, requiring us to materially increase reserves for such products, and may result in a decrease in customer lapses, thereby increasing the cost to us. In addition, such a scenario could lead to increased amortization and/or unfavorable unlocking of DAC and value of business acquired (\"VOBA\").. 44. • Reductions in employment levels of our existing employer customers may result in a reduction in underlying employee participation levels, contributions, deposits and premium income for certain of our retirement products. Participants within the retirement plans for which we provide certain services may elect to make withdrawals from these plans, or reduce or stop their payroll deferrals to these plans, which would reduce assets under management or administration and our revenues.. • We have significant investment and derivative portfolios that include, among other investments, corporate securities, ABS, equities and commercial mortgages. Economic conditions as well as adverse capital market and credit conditions, interest rate changes, changes in mortgage prepayment behavior or declines in the value of underlying collateral will impact the credit quality, liquidity and value of our investment and derivative portfolios, potentially resulting in higher capital charges and unrealized or realized losses and decreased investment income. The value of our investments and derivative portfolios may also be impacted by reductions in price transparency, changes in the assumptions or methodology we use to estimate fair value and changes in investor confidence or preferences, which could potentially result in higher realized or unrealized losses and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Market volatility may also make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent.. • Market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase and may result in additional expenses for reinsurance or an inability to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect the profitability of future business and the availability of capital to support new sales.. • Hedging instruments we use to manage product and other risks might not perform as intended or expected, which could result in higher realized losses and unanticipated cash needs to collateralize or settle such transactions. Adverse market conditions can limit the availability and increase the costs of hedging instruments, and such costs may not be recovered in the pricing of the underlying products being hedged. In addition, hedging counterparties may fail to perform their obligations resulting in unhedged exposures and losses on positions that are not collateralized.. • Regardless of market conditions, certain investments we hold, including privately placed fixed income investments, investments in private equity funds and commercial mortgages, are relatively illiquid. If we need to sell these investments, we may have difficulty selling them in a timely manner or at a price equal to what we could otherwise realize by holding the investment to maturity.. • We are exposed to interest rate and equity risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with our pension and other retirement benefit obligations. Sustained declines in long-term interest rates or equity returns could have a negative effect on the funded status of these plans and/or increase our future funding costs.. • Fluctuations in our results of operations and realized and unrealized gains and losses on our investment and derivative portfolio may impact our tax profile, our ability to optimally utilize tax attributes and our deferred income tax assets. See \"Our ability to use beneficial U.S. tax attributes is subject to limitations.\". • A default by any financial institution or by a sovereign could lead to additional defaults by other market participants. The failure of a sufficiently large and influential institution could disrupt securities markets or clearance and settlement systems and lead to a chain of defaults, because the commercial and financial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely related as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships. Even the perceived lack of creditworthiness of a counterparty may lead to market-wide liquidity problems and losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. This risk is sometimes referred to as \"systemic risk\" and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges with which we interact on a daily basis. Systemic risk could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise new funding and on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and/or business prospects. In addition, such a failure could impact future product sales as a potential result of reduced confidence in the financial services industry. Regulatory changes implemented to address systemic risk could also cause market participants to curtail their participation in certain market activities, which could decrease market liquidity and increase trading and other costs.. • Widening credit spreads, if not offset by equal or greater declines in the risk-free interest rate, would also cause the total interest rate payable on newly issued securities to increase, and thus would have the same effect as an increase in underlying interest rates with respect to the valuation of our current portfolio.. 45. To the extent that any of the foregoing risks were to emerge in a manner that adversely affected general economic conditions, financial markets, or the markets for our products and services, our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may impact our ability to access liquidity and capital, as well as the cost of credit and capital.. Adverse capital market conditions may affect the availability and cost of borrowed funds, thereby impacting our ability to support or grow our businesses. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock, to carry out any share repurchases that we may undertake, to maintain our securities lending activities, to collateralize certain obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and to replace certain maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations and our business will suffer. As a holding company with no direct operations, our principal assets are the capital stock of our subsidiaries.. Payments of dividends and advances or repayment of funds to us by our insurance subsidiaries are restricted by the applicable laws and regulations of their respective jurisdictions, including laws establishing minimum solvency and liquidity thresholds.. For our insurance and other subsidiaries, the principal sources of liquidity are insurance premiums and fees, annuity deposits and cash flow from investments and assets. At the holding company level, sources of liquidity in normal markets also include a variety of short-term liquid investments and short-and long-term instruments, including credit facilities, equity securities and medium-and long-term debt.. In the event current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry and our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be limited if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. If our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, there is a risk that we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. Any actions we might take to access financing may cause rating agencies to reevaluate our ratings.. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital. Such market conditions may in the future limit our ability to raise additional capital to support business growth, or to counter-balance the consequences of losses or increased regulatory reserves and rating agency capital requirements. This could force us to (1) delay raising capital, (2) reduce, cancel or postpone interest payments on our debt or reduce or eliminate dividends paid on our capital stock, (3) issue capital of different types or under different terms than we would otherwise or (4) incur a higher cost of capital than would prevail in a more stable market environment. This would have the potential to decrease both our profitability and our financial flexibility. Our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, statutory capital and rating agency capital position could be materially and adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets.. The level of interest rates may adversely affect our profitability, particularly in the event of a continuation of the low interest rate environment or a period of rapidly increasing interest rates.. The Federal Reserve has begun the process of normalizing short-term interest rates. However, interest rates remain below historic averages. Supportive monetary policy continues in developed markets globally, but the extent of accommodation has likely peaked. The unwind of extraordinary monetary accommodation by global central banks may lead to increased interest rate volatility.. During periods of declining interest rates or a prolonged period of low interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively more attractive to consumers due to minimum guarantees that are frequently mandated by regulators, resulting in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features and a higher percentage of insurance and annuity contracts remaining in force from year-to-year than we anticipated in our pricing, potentially resulting in greater claims costs than we expected and asset/liability cash flow mismatches. A decrease in interest rates or a prolonged period of low interest rates may also require additional provisions for guarantees included in life insurance and annuity contracts, as the guarantees become more valuable to policyholders. During a period of decreasing interest rates or a prolonged period of low interest rates, our investment earnings may decrease because the interest earnings on our recently purchased fixed income investments will likely have declined in tandem with market interest rates. In addition, a prolonged low interest rate period may result in higher costs for certain derivative instruments that may be used to hedge certain of our product risks. RMBS and callable fixed income securities in our investment portfolios will be more likely to be prepaid or redeemed as borrowers seek to borrow at lower interest rates. Consequently, we may be required to reinvest the proceeds in securities bearing lower interest rates. Accordingly, during periods of declining interest rates, our profitability may suffer as the result of a decrease in the spread between interest rates credited to policyholders and. 46. contract owners and returns on our investment portfolios. An extended period of declining or prolonged low interest rates or a prolonged period of low interest rates may also coincide with a change to our long-term view of the interest rates. Such a change in our view would cause us to change the long-term interest rate assumptions in our calculation of insurance assets and liabilities under U.S. GAAP. Any future revision would result in increased reserves, accelerated amortization of DAC and other unfavorable consequences, which would be incremental to those consequences recorded in connection with the most recent revision. In addition, certain statutory capital and reserve requirements are based on formulas or models that consider interest rates, and an extended period of low interest rates may increase the statutory capital we are required to hold and the amount of assets we must maintain to support statutory reserves. We believe a continuation of the low interest rate environment would negatively affect our financial performance.. Conversely, in periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, policy loans, withdrawals from, and/or surrenders of, life insurance and annuity contracts and certain GICs may increase as policyholders choose to seek higher investment returns. Obtaining cash to satisfy these obligations may require us to liquidate fixed income investments at a time when market prices for those assets are lower because of increases in interest rates. This may result in realized investment losses. Regardless of whether we realize an investment loss, such cash payments would result in a decrease in total invested assets and may decrease our net income and capitalization levels. Premature withdrawals may also cause us to accelerate amortization of DAC, which would also reduce our net income. An increase in market interest rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio by, for example, decreasing the estimated fair values of the fixed income securities within our investment portfolio. An increase in market interest rates could also create increased collateral posting requirements associated with our interest rate hedge programs and Federal Home Loan Bank funding agreements, which could materially and adversely affect liquidity. In addition, an increase in market interest rates could require us to pay higher interest rates on debt securities we may issue in the financial markets from time to time to finance our operations, which would increase our interest expense and reduce our results of operations.. Lastly, certain statutory reserve requirements are based on formulas or models that consider forward interest rates and an increase in forward interest rates may increase the statutory reserves we are required to hold thereby reducing statutory capital. Changes in prevailing interest rates may negatively affect our business including the level of net interest margin we earn. In a period of changing interest rates, interest expense may increase and interest credited to policyholders may change at different rates than the interest earned on assets. Accordingly, changes in interest rates could decrease net interest margin. Changes in interest rates may negatively affect the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains or avoid losses from the sale of those assets, all of which also ultimately affect earnings. In addition, our insurance and annuity products and certain of our retirement and investment products are sensitive to inflation rate fluctuations. A sustained increase in the inflation rate in our principal markets may also negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. For example, a sustained increase in the inflation rate may result in an increase in nominal market interest rates. A failure to accurately anticipate higher inflation and factor it into our product pricing assumptions may result in mispricing of our products, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations.. A downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could result in a loss of business and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Ratings are important to our business. Credit ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding an entity's ability to repay its indebtedness. Our credit ratings are important to our ability to raise capital through the issuance of debt and to the cost of such financing. Financial strength ratings, which are sometimes referred to as \"claims-paying\" ratings, represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding the financial ability of an insurance company to meet its obligations under an insurance policy. Financial strength ratings are important factors affecting public confidence in insurers, including our insurance company subsidiaries. The financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries are important to our ability to sell our products and services to our customers. Ratings are not recommendations to buy our securities. Each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically, and our current ratings may not be maintained in the future.. Our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without notice by any rating agency. For a description of material rating actions that have occurred from the end of 2015 through the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, see \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Ratings.\". A downgrade of the financial strength rating of one of our Principal Insurance Subsidiaries could affect our competitive position by making it more difficult for us to market our products as potential customers may select companies with higher financial strength ratings and by leading to increased withdrawals by current customers seeking companies with higher financial strength ratings. This could lead to a decrease in AUM and result in lower fee income. Furthermore, sales of assets to meet customer withdrawal demands could also result in losses, depending on market conditions. In addition, a downgrade in either our financial strength or credit ratings could potentially, among other things, increase our borrowing costs and make it more difficult to access financing; adversely affect the availability of LOCs and other financial guarantees; result in additional collateral requirements, or other required payments or termination rights under derivative contracts or other agreements; and/or impair, or cause the termination. 47. of, our relationships with creditors, broker-dealers, distributors, reinsurers or trading counterparties, which could potentially negatively affect our profitability, liquidity and/or capital. In addition, we use assumptions of market participants in estimating the fair value of our liabilities, including insurance liabilities that are classified as embedded derivatives under U.S. GAAP. These assumptions include our nonperformance risk (i.e., the risk that the obligations will not be fulfilled). Therefore, changes in our credit or financial strength ratings may affect the fair value of our liabilities.. In December 2017, ratings agencies downgraded the credit and financial strength ratings of VIAC, our Iowa-domiciled insurance subsidiary, as a result of our entry into the Transaction, pursuant to which we are selling VIAC to a third-party investment vehicle. This downgrade has significantly affected VIAC's distribution relationships and its ability to sell new annuities during the period before the Transaction closes. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Ratings.\". As rating agencies continue to evaluate the financial services industry, it is possible that rating agencies will heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to financial institutions, increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, request additional information from the companies that they rate and potentially adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. It is possible that the outcome of any such review of us would have additional adverse ratings consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We may need to take actions in response to changing standards or capital requirements set by any of the rating agencies which could cause our business and operations to suffer. We cannot predict what additional actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies.. Certain of our securities continue to be guaranteed by ING Group. A downgrade of the credit ratings of ING Group could result in downgrades of these securities, as occurred during the second quarter of 2015, when Moody's downgraded these guaranteed securities from A3 to Baa1.. Because we operate in highly competitive markets, we may not be able to increase or maintain our market share, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. In each of our businesses we face intense competition, including from domestic and foreign insurance companies, broker-dealers, financial advisors, asset managers and diversified financial institutions, banks, technology companies and start-up financial services providers, both for the ultimate customers for our products and for distribution through independent distribution channels. We compete based on a number of factors including brand recognition, reputation, quality of service, quality of investment advice, investment performance of our products, product features, scope of distribution, price, perceived financial strength and credit ratings, scale and level of customer service. A decline in our competitive position as to one or more of these factors could adversely affect our profitability. In addition, we may in the future sacrifice our competitive or market position in order to improve our profitability. Many of our competitors are large and well-established and some have greater market share or breadth of distribution, offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have greater financial resources, or have higher claims-paying or credit ratings than we do. Furthermore, the preferences of the end consumers for our products and services may shift, including as a result of technological innovations affecting the marketplaces in which we operate. To the extent our competitors are more successful than we are at adopting new technology and adapting to the changing preferences of the marketplace, our competitiveness may decline.. In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation among companies in the financial services industry resulting in increased competition from large, well-capitalized financial services firms. Future economic turmoil may accelerate additional consolidation activity. Many of our competitors also have been able to increase their distribution systems through mergers, acquisitions, partnerships or other contractual arrangements. Furthermore, larger competitors may have lower operating costs and have an ability to absorb greater risk, while maintaining financial strength ratings, allowing them to price products more competitively. These competitive pressures could result in increased pressure on the pricing of certain of our products and services, and could harm our ability to maintain or increase profitability. In addition, if our financial strength and credit ratings are lower than our competitors, we may experience increased surrenders and/or a significant decline in sales. The competitive landscape in which we operate may be further affected by the government sponsored programs or regulatory changes in the United States and similar governmental actions outside of the United States. Competitors that receive governmental financing, guarantees or other assistance, or that are not subject to the same regulatory constraints, may have or obtain pricing or other competitive advantages. Due to the competitive nature of the financial services industry, there can be no assurance that we will continue to effectively compete within the industry or that competition will not have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 48. Our risk management policies and procedures, including hedging programs, may prove inadequate for the risks we face, which could negatively affect our business and financial condition or result in losses.. We have developed risk management policies and procedures, including hedging programs, that utilize derivative financial instruments, and expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective, particularly during turbulent economic conditions. Many of our methods of managing risk and exposures are based upon observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. As a result, these methods may not predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend on the evaluation of information regarding markets, customers, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. This information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record and verify large numbers of transactions and events. These policies and procedures may not be fully effective.. We employ various strategies, including hedging and reinsurance, with the objective of mitigating risks inherent in our business and operations. These risks include current or future changes in the fair value of our assets and liabilities, current or future changes in cash flows, the effect of interest rates, equity markets and credit spread changes, the occurrence of credit defaults, currency fluctuations and changes in mortality and longevity. We seek to control these risks by, among other things, entering into reinsurance contracts and derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forward contracts. See \" - Reinsurance subjects us to the credit risk of reinsurers and may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses\" for a description of risks associated with our use of reinsurance. Developing an effective strategy for dealing with these risks is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate us from such risks. Our hedging strategies also rely on assumptions and projections regarding our assets, liabilities, general market factors, and the creditworthiness of our counterparties that may prove to be incorrect or prove to be inadequate. Accordingly, our hedging activities may not have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Hedging strategies involve transaction costs and other costs, and if we terminate a hedging arrangement, we may also be required to pay additional costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs. We may incur losses on transactions after taking into account our hedging strategies. In particular, our hedging strategies primarily focus on the protection of regulatory and rating agency capital, rather than U.S. GAAP earnings. As U.S. GAAP accounting differs from the methods used to determine regulatory reserves and rating agency capital requirements, our hedge program tends to create earnings volatility in our U.S. GAAP financial statements. Further, the nature, timing, design or execution of our hedging transactions could actually increase our risks and losses. Our hedging strategies and the derivatives that we use, or may use in the future, may not adequately mitigate or offset the hedged risk and our hedging transactions may result in losses.. Past or future misconduct by our employees, agents, intermediaries, representatives of our broker-dealer subsidiaries or employees of our vendors could result in violations of law by us or our subsidiaries, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor associates' business decisions and to prevent us from taking excessive or inappropriate risks, associates may take such risks regardless of such controls and procedures. Our compensation policies and practices are reviewed by us as part of our overall risk management program, but it is possible that such compensation policies and practices could inadvertently incentivize excessive or inappropriate risk taking. If our associates take excessive or inappropriate risks, those risks could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The inability of counterparties to meet their financial obligations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets may not pay or perform under their obligations. These parties include the issuers or guarantors of securities we hold, customers, reinsurers, trading counterparties, securities lending and repurchase counterparties, counterparties under swaps, credit default and other derivative contracts, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries. Defaults by one or more of these parties on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, downturns in the economy or real estate values, operational failure or other factors, or even rumors about potential defaults by one or more of these parties, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. We routinely execute a high volume of transactions such as unsecured debt instruments, derivative transactions and equity investments with counterparties and customers in the financial services industry, including broker-dealers, commercial and investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, institutional clients, futures clearing merchants, swap dealers, insurance companies and other institutions, resulting in large periodic settlement amounts which may result in our having significant credit exposure to one or more of such counterparties or customers. Many of these transactions comprise derivative instruments with a number of counterparties in order to hedge various risks, including equity and interest rate market risk features within many of our insurance and annuity products. Our obligations under our products are not changed by our hedging activities and we are liable for our obligations even if our derivative counterparties do not pay us. As a result, we face concentration risk with respect to liabilities or amounts we expect to collect from specific counterparties and customers. A default by, or even concerns about the creditworthiness. 49. of, one or more of these counterparties or customers could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or liquidity. There is no assurance that losses on, or impairments to the carrying value of, these assets due to counterparty credit risk would not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. We are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. The deterioration or perceived deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold could result in losses and/or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. While in many cases we are permitted to require additional collateral from counterparties that experience financial difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets. Our credit risk may also be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure that is due to us, which is most likely to occur during periods of illiquidity and depressed asset valuations, such as those experienced during the financial crisis of 2008-09. The termination of contracts and the foreclosure on collateral may subject us to claims for the improper exercise of rights under the contracts. Bankruptcies, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral tend to increase in times of market stress and illiquidity.. Requirements to post collateral or make payments related to changes in market value of specified assets may adversely affect liquidity.. The amount of collateral we may be required to post under short-term financing agreements and derivative transactions may increase under certain circumstances. Pursuant to the terms of some transactions, we could be required to make payment to our counterparties related to any change in the market value of the specified collateral assets. Such requirements could have an adverse effect on liquidity. Furthermore, with respect to any such payments, we may have unsecured risk to the counterparty as these amounts may not be required to be segregated from the counterparty's other funds, may not be held in a third-party custodial account and may not be required to be paid to us by the counterparty until the termination of the transaction. Additionally, the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act and the resultant changes in collateral requirements may increase the need for liquidity and eligible collateral assets in excess of what is already being held.. Our investment portfolio is subject to several risks that may diminish the value of our invested assets and the investment returns credited to customers, which could reduce our sales, revenues, AUM and results of operations.. Fixed income securities represent a significant portion of our investment portfolio. We are subject to the risk that the issuers, or guarantors, of fixed income securities we own may default on principal and interest payments they owe us. We are also subject to the risk that the underlying collateral within asset-backed securities, including mortgage-backed securities, may default on principal and interest payments causing an adverse change in cash flows. The occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening mortgage or credit spreads, or other events that adversely affect the issuers, guarantors or underlying collateral of these securities could cause the estimated fair value of our fixed income securities portfolio and our earnings to decline and the default rate of the fixed income securities in our investment portfolio to increase. A ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of securities in our investment portfolio, or similar trends that could worsen the credit quality of such issuers, or guarantors could also have a similar effect. Similarly, a ratings downgrade affecting a security we hold could indicate the credit quality of that security has deteriorated and could increase the capital we must hold to support that security to maintain our RBC ratio. See \"A decrease in the RBC ratio (as a result of a reduction in statutory surplus and/or increase in RBC requirements) of our insurance subsidiaries could result in increased scrutiny by insurance regulators and rating agencies and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.\" We are also subject to the risk that cash flows resulting from the payments on pools of mortgages that serve as collateral underlying the mortgage-backed securities we own may differ from our expectations in timing or size. Cash flow variability arising from an unexpected acceleration in mortgage prepayment behavior can be significant, and could cause a decline in the estimated fair value of certain \"interest-only\" securities within our mortgage-backed securities portfolio. Any event reducing the estimated fair value of these securities, other than on a temporary basis, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We derive operating revenues from providing investment management and related services. Our revenues depend largely on the value and mix of AUM. Our investment management related revenues are derived primarily from fees based on a percentage of the value of AUM. Any decrease in the value or amount of our AUM because of market volatility or other factors negatively impacts our revenues and income. Global economic conditions, changes in the equity markets, currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation rates, the shape of the yield curve, defaults by derivative counterparties and other factors that are difficult to predict affect the mix, market values and levels of our AUM. The funds we manage may be subject to an unanticipated large number of redemptions as a result of such events, causing the funds to sell securities they hold, possibly at a loss, or draw on any available lines of credit to obtain cash, or use securities held in the applicable fund, to settle these redemptions. We may, in our discretion, also provide financial support to a fund to enable it to maintain sufficient liquidity in such an event. Additionally, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix towards fixed-income products and a related decline in our revenue and income, as. 50. we generally derive higher fee revenues and income from equity products than from fixed-income products we manage. Any decrease in the level of our AUM resulting from price declines, interest rate volatility or uncertainty, increased redemptions or other factors could negatively impact our revenues and income.. From time to time we invest our capital to seed a particular investment strategy or investment portfolio. We may also co-invest in funds or take an equity ownership interest in certain structured finance/investment vehicles that we manage for our customers. In some cases, these interests may be leveraged with third-party debt financing. Any decrease in the value of such investments could negatively affect our revenues and income or subject us to losses.. Our investment performance is critical to the success of our investment management and related services business, as well as to the profitability of our insurance, annuity and retirement products. Poor investment performance as compared to third-party benchmarks or competitor products could lead to a decrease in sales of investment products we manage and lead to redemptions of existing assets, generally lowering the overall level of AUM and reducing the management fees we earn. We cannot assure you that past or present investment performance in the investment products we manage will be indicative of future performance. Any poor investment performance may negatively impact our revenues and income.. Some of our investments are relatively illiquid and in some cases are in asset classes that have been experiencing significant market valuation fluctuations.. We hold certain assets that may lack liquidity, such as privately placed fixed income securities, commercial mortgage loans, policy loans and limited partnership interests. These asset classes represented 33.3% of the carrying value of our total cash and invested assets as of December 31, 2017. If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements or are required to post or return collateral in connection with our investment portfolio, derivatives transactions or securities lending activities, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both.. The reported values of our relatively illiquid types of investments do not necessarily reflect the current market price for the asset. If we were forced to sell certain of our assets in the current market, there can be no assurance that we would be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them and we might be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices.. We invest a portion of our invested assets in investment funds, many of which make private equity investments. The amount and timing of income from such investment funds tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments, including private equity investments. The timing of distributions from the funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds' schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict. As a result, the amount of income that we record from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. Recent equity and credit market volatility may reduce investment income for these types of investments.. Our CMO-B portfolio exposes us to market and behavior risks.. We manage a portfolio of various collateralized mortgage obligation (\"CMO\") tranches in combination with financial derivatives as part of a proprietary strategy we refer to as \"CMO-B,\" as described under \"Investments - CMO-B Portfolio.\" As of December 31, 2017, our CMO-B portfolio had $3 billion in total assets, consisting of notional or principal securities backed by mortgages secured by single-family residential real estate, and including interest-only securities, principal-only securities, inverse-floating rate (principal) securities, inverse interest-only securities and Agency Credit Risk Transfer securities. The CMO-B portfolio is subject to a number of market and behavior risks, including interest rate risk, prepayment risk, and delinquency and default risk associated with Agency mortgage borrowers. Interest rate risk represents the potential for adverse changes in portfolio value resulting from changes in the general level of interest rates. Prepayment risk represents the potential for adverse changes in portfolio value resulting from changes in residential mortgage prepayment speed, which in turn depends on a number of factors, including conditions in both credit markets and housing markets. As of December 31, 2017, December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, approximately 43.2%, 46.4%, and 46.6%, respectively, of the Company's total CMO holdings were invested in those types of CMOs, such as interest-only or principal-only strips, which are subject to more prepayment and extension risk than traditional CMOs. In addition, government policy changes affecting residential housing and residential housing finance, such as government agency reform and government sponsored refinancing programs, and Federal Reserve Bank purchases of agency mortgage securities could alter prepayment behavior and result in adverse changes to portfolio values. While we actively monitor our exposure to these and other risks inherent in this strategy, we cannot assure you that our hedging and risk management strategies will be effective; any failure to manage these risks effectively could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, although our CMO-B portfolio performed well for a number of years, and particularly well since the financial crisis of 2008-09, primarily due to persistently low levels of short-term interest rates and mortgage prepayments in an atmosphere of tightened housing-related credit availability, this portfolio may not continue to perform as well in the future. A rise in home prices, the. 51. concern over further introduction of or changes to government policies aimed at altering prepayment behavior, and an increased availability of housing-related credit could combine to increase expected or actual prepayment speeds, which would likely lower interest only (\"IO\") and inverse IO valuations. Under these circumstances, the results of our CMO-B portfolio would likely underperform those of recent periods.. Defaults or delinquencies in our commercial mortgage loan portfolio may adversely affect our profitability.. The commercial mortgage loans we hold face both default and delinquency risk. We establish loan specific estimated impairments at the balance sheet date. These impairments are based on the excess carrying value of the loan over the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's original effective interest rate, the estimated fair value of the loan's collateral if the loan is in the process of foreclosure or otherwise collateral dependent, or the loan's observable market price. We also establish valuation allowances for loan losses when, based on past experience, it is probable that a credit event has occurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. These valuation allowances are based on loan risk characteristics, historical default rates and loss severities, real estate market fundamentals and outlook as well as other relevant factors. As of December 31, 2017, there were no commercial loans that were 30 days or less past due, and no commercial mortgage loans in process of foreclosure. The performance of our commercial mortgage loan investments may fluctuate in the future. In addition, legislative proposals that would allow or require modifications to the terms of commercial mortgage loans could be enacted. We cannot predict whether these proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such laws, if enacted, could have on our business or investments. An increase in the delinquency and default rate of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. Further, any geographic or sector concentration of our commercial mortgage loans may have adverse effects on our investment portfolios and consequently on our results of operations or financial condition. While we generally seek to mitigate the risk of sector concentration by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated, which could affect our results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, liability under environmental protection laws resulting from our commercial mortgage loan portfolio and real estate investments could affect our results of operations or financial condition. Under the laws of several states, contamination of a property may give rise to a lien on the property to secure recovery of the costs of cleanup. In some states, such a lien has priority over the lien of an existing mortgage against the property, which would impair our ability to foreclose on that property should the related loan be in default. In addition, under the laws of some states and under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, we may be liable for costs of addressing releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances that require remedy at a property securing a mortgage loan held by us, regardless of whether or not the environmental damage or threat was caused by the obligor, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. We also may face this liability after foreclosing on a property securing a mortgage loan held by us.. Our operations are complex and a failure to properly perform services could have an adverse effect on our revenues and income.. Our operations include, among other things, retirement plan administration, policy administration, portfolio management, investment advice, retail and wholesale brokerage, fund administration, shareholder services, benefits processing and servicing, contract and sales and servicing, transfer agency, underwriting, distribution, custodial, trustee and other fiduciary services. In order to be competitive, we must properly perform our administrative and related responsibilities, including recordkeeping and accounting, regulatory compliance, security pricing, corporate actions, compliance with investment restrictions, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations and required distributions to fund shareholders. Further, certain of our investment management subsidiaries may act as general partner for various investment partnerships, which may subject them to liability for the partnerships' liabilities. If we fail to properly perform and monitor our operations, our business could suffer and our revenues and income could be adversely affected.. Our products and services are complex and are frequently sold through intermediaries, and a failure to properly perform services or the misrepresentation of our products or services could have an adverse effect on our revenues and income.. Many of our products and services are complex and are frequently sold through intermediaries. In particular, our insurance businesses are reliant on intermediaries to describe and explain their products to potential customers. The intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of our products and services in advertising materials or other external communications, or inappropriate activities by our personnel or an intermediary, could adversely affect our reputation and business prospects, as well as lead to potential regulatory actions or litigation.. 52. Revenues, earnings and income from our Investment Management business operations could be adversely affected if the terms of our asset management agreements are significantly altered or the agreements are terminated, or if certain performance hurdles are not realized.. Our revenues from our investment management business operations are dependent on fees earned under asset management and related services agreements that we have with the clients and funds we advise. Adjusted operating revenues for this segment were $731 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, $627 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, and $622 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 and could be adversely affected if these agreements are altered significantly or terminated in the future. The decline in revenue that might result from alteration or termination of our asset management services agreements could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Adjusted operating earnings before income taxes for this segment were $248 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, $171 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, and $182 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. In addition, under certain laws, most notably the Investment Company Act and the Investment Advisers Act, advisory contracts may require approval or consent from clients or fund shareholders in the event of an assignment of the contract or a change in control of the investment adviser. Were a transaction to result in an assignment or change in control, the inability to obtain consent or approval from clients or shareholders of mutual funds or other investment funds could result in a significant reduction in advisory fees.. As investment manager for certain private equity funds that we sponsor, we earn both a fixed management fee and performance-based capital allocations, or \"carried interest.\" Our receipt of carried interest is dependent on the fund exceeding a specified investment return hurdle over the life of the fund. The profitability of our investment management activities with respect to these funds depends to a significant extent on our ability to exceed the hurdle rates and receive carried interest. To the extent that we exceed the investment hurdle during the life of the fund, we may receive or accrue carried interest, which is reported as Net investment income and net realized gains (losses) within our Investment Management segment during the period such fees are first earned. If the investment return of a fund were to subsequently decline so that the cumulative return of a fund falls below its specified investment return hurdle, we may have to reverse previously reported carried interest, which would result in a reduction to Net investment income and net realized gains (losses) during the period in which such reversal becomes due. Consequently, a decline in fund performance could require us to reverse previously reported carried interest, which could create volatility in the results we report in our Investment Management segment, and the adverse effects of any such reversals could be material to our results for the period in which they occur. We experienced such losses in the first and second quarters of 2016, for example. As of December 31, 2017, approximately $66 million of previously accrued carried interest would be subject to full or partial reversal in future periods if cumulative fund performance hurdles are not maintained throughout the remaining life of the affected funds.. The valuation of many of our financial instruments includes methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. The following financial instruments are carried at fair value in our financial statements: fixed income securities, equity securities, derivatives, embedded derivatives, assets and liabilities related to consolidated investment entities, and separate account assets. We have categorized these instruments into a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3), while quoted prices in markets that are not active or valuation techniques requiring inputs that are observable for substantially the full term of the asset or liability are Level 2.. Factors considered in estimating fair values of securities, and derivatives and embedded derivatives related to our securities include coupon rate, maturity, principal paydown including prepayments, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer and quoted market prices of comparable securities. Factors considered in estimating the fair values of embedded derivatives and derivatives related to product guarantees and index-crediting features (collectively, \"guaranteed benefit derivatives\") include risk-free interest rates, long-term equity implied volatility, interest rate implied volatility, correlations among mutual funds associated with variable annuity contracts, correlations between interest rates and equity funds and actuarial assumptions such as mortality rates, lapse rates and benefit utilization, as well as the amount and timing of policyholder deposits and partial withdrawals. The impact of our risk of nonperformance is also reflected in the estimated fair value of guaranteed benefit derivatives. Changes in the estimated fair value of embedded derivatives guarantees due to nonperformance risk have had a material effect on our results of operations in past periods. In many situations, inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset or liability may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In these situations, we will determine the level in which the fair value falls based upon the lowest level input that is significant to the determination of the fair value.. The determinations of fair values are made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the. 53. issuer or counterparty. The use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.. During periods of market disruption, including periods of rapidly changing credit spreads or illiquidity, it has been in the past and likely would be in the future difficult to value certain of our securities, such as certain mortgage-backed securities, if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that, although currently in active markets with significant observable data, could become illiquid in a difficult financial environment. In such cases, more securities may fall to Level 3 and thus require more subjectivity and management judgment in determining fair value. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation, thereby resulting in values that may differ materially from the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within the financial statements, and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2017, 4%, 93% and 3% of our available-for-sale securities were considered to be Level 1, 2 and 3, respectively.. The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments is subjective and could materially and adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. Gross unrealized losses may be realized or result in future impairments, resulting in a reduction in net income.. We evaluate investment securities held by us for impairment on a quarterly basis. This review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. For fixed income securities held, an impairment loss is recognized if the fair value of the debt security is less than the carrying value and we no longer have the intent to hold the debt security; if it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the debt security before recovery of the amortized cost basis; or if a credit loss has occurred.. When we do not intend to sell a security in an unrealized loss position, potential credit related other-than-temporary impairments (\"OTTI\") are considered using a variety of factors, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, adverse conditions specifically related to the industry, geographic area in which the issuer conducts business, financial condition of the issuer or underlying collateral of a security, payment structure of the security, changes in credit rating of the security by the rating agencies, volatility of the fair value changes and other events that adversely affect the issuer. In addition, we take into account relevant broad market and economic data in making impairment decisions.. As part of the impairment review process, we utilize a variety of assumptions and estimates to make a judgment on how fixed income securities will perform in the future. It is possible that securities in our fixed income portfolio will perform worse than our expectations. There is an ongoing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and additional OTTI may be recorded in future periods, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances.. Fixed income and equity securities classified as available-for-sale are reported at their estimated fair value. Unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities are recognized as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) and are therefore excluded from net income (loss). The accumulated change in estimated fair value of these available-for-sale securities is recognized in net income (loss) when the gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the decline in estimated fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary and an impairment charge to earnings is taken. Such realized losses or impairments may have a material adverse effect on our net income (loss) in a particular interim or annual period. For example, we recorded OTTI of $21 million, $34 million, and $83 million in net realized capital losses for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.. Our participation in a securities lending program and a repurchase program subjects us to potential liquidity and other risks.. We engage in a securities lending program whereby certain securities from our portfolio are loaned to other institutions for short periods of time. Initial collateral, primarily cash, is required at a rate of 102% of the market value of the loaned securities. For certain transactions, a lending agent may be used and the agent may retain some or all of the collateral deposited by the borrower and transfer the remaining collateral to us. Collateral retained by the agent is invested in liquid assets on our behalf. The market value of the loaned securities is monitored on a daily basis with additional collateral obtained or refunded as the market value of the loaned securities fluctuates.. We also participate in a repurchase agreement program whereby we sell fixed income securities to a third party, primarily major brokerage firms or commercial banks, with a concurrent agreement to repurchase those same securities at a determined future date. During the term of the repurchase agreements, cash or other types of permitted collateral provided to us is sufficient to allow us to fund substantially all of the cost of purchasing replacement assets in the event of counterparty default (i.e., the sold securities. 54. are not returned to us on the scheduled repurchase date). Cash proceeds received by us under the repurchase program are typically invested in fixed income securities but may in certain circumstances be available to us for liquidity or other purposes prior to the scheduled repurchase date. The repurchase of securities or our inability to enter into new repurchase agreements would reduce the amount of such cash collateral available to us. Market conditions on or after the repurchase date may limit our ability to enter into new agreements at a time when we need access to additional cash collateral for investment or liquidity purposes.. For both securities lending and repurchase transactions, in some cases, the maturity of the securities held as invested collateral (i.e., securities that we have purchased with cash collateral received) may exceed the term of the related securities on loan and the estimated fair value may fall below the amount of cash received as collateral and invested. If we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on short notice and we are forced to sell securities to meet the return obligation, we may have difficulty selling such collateral that is invested in securities in a timely manner, be forced to sell securities in a volatile or illiquid market for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize under normal market conditions, or both. In addition, under adverse capital market and economic conditions, liquidity may broadly deteriorate, which would further restrict our ability to sell securities. If we decrease the amount of our securities lending and repurchase activities over time, the amount of net investment income generated by these activities will also likely decline. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Securities Lending.\". Differences between actual claims experience and reserving assumptions may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. We establish and hold reserves to pay future policy benefits and claims. Our reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but rather are actuarial or statistical estimates based on data and models that include many assumptions and projections, which are inherently uncertain and involve the exercise of significant judgment, including assumptions as to the levels and/or timing of receipt or payment of premiums, benefits, claims, expenses, interest credits, investment results (including equity market returns), retirement, mortality, morbidity and persistency. We periodically review the adequacy of reserves and the underlying assumptions. We cannot, however, determine with precision the amounts that we will pay for, or the timing of payment of, actual benefits, claims and expenses or whether the assets supporting our policy liabilities, together with future premiums, will grow to the level assumed prior to payment of benefits or claims. If actual experience differs significantly from assumptions or estimates, reserves may not be adequate. If we conclude that our reserves, together with future premiums, are insufficient to cover future policy benefits and claims, we would be required to increase our reserves and incur income statement charges for the period in which we make the determination, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We may face significant losses if mortality rates, morbidity rates, persistency rates or other underwriting assumptions differ significantly from our pricing expectations.. We set prices for many of our insurance, employee benefits and annuity products based upon expected claims and payment patterns, using assumptions for mortality rates, or likelihood of death, and morbidity rates, or likelihood of sickness, of our policyholders. In addition to the potential effect of natural or man-made disasters, significant changes in mortality or morbidity could emerge gradually over time due to changes in the natural environment, the health habits of the insured population, technologies and treatments for disease or disability, the economic environment, or other factors. The long-term profitability of such products depends upon how our actual mortality rates, and to a lesser extent actual morbidity rates, compare to our pricing assumptions. In addition, prolonged or severe adverse mortality or morbidity experience could result in increased reinsurance costs, and ultimately, reinsurers might not offer coverage at all. If we are unable to maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that we consider sufficient, we would have to accept an increase in our net risk exposures, revise our pricing to reflect higher reinsurance premiums, or otherwise modify our product offering.. Pricing of our insurance, employee benefits and annuity products is also based in part upon expected persistency of these products, which is the probability that a policy will remain in force from one period to the next. Persistency of our annuity products may be significantly and adversely impacted by the increasing value of guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products due to poor equity market performance or extended periods of low interest rates as well as other factors. The minimum interest rate guarantees in our fixed annuities may also be more valuable in extended periods of low interest rates. Persistency could be adversely affected generally by developments adversely affecting customer perception of us. Results may also vary based on differences between actual and expected premium deposits and withdrawals for these products. Many of our deferred annuity products also contain optional benefits that may be exercised at certain points within a contract. We set prices for such products using assumptions for the rate of election of deferred annuity living benefits and other optional benefits offered to our contract owners. The profitability of our deferred annuity products may be less than expected, depending upon how actual contract owner decisions to elect or delay the utilization of such benefits compare to our pricing assumptions. The development of a secondary market for life insurance, including stranger-owned life insurance, life settlements or \"viaticals\" and investor-owned life insurance, and the potential development of third-party investor strategies in the annuities business, could also adversely affect. 55. the profitability of existing business and our pricing assumptions for new business. Actual persistency that is lower than our persistency assumptions could have an adverse effect on profitability, especially in the early years of a policy, primarily because we would be required to accelerate the amortization of expenses we defer in connection with the acquisition of the policy. Actual persistency that is higher than our persistency assumptions could have an adverse effect on profitability in the later years of a block of business because the anticipated claims experience is higher in these later years. If actual persistency is significantly different from that assumed in our current reserving assumptions, our reserves for future policy benefits may prove to be inadequate. Although some of our products permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits during the life of the policy, the adjustments permitted under the terms of the policies may not be sufficient to maintain profitability. Many of our products, however, do not permit us to increase premiums or adjust charges and credits during the life of the policy or during the initial guarantee term of the policy. Even if permitted under the policy, we may not be able or willing to raise premiums or adjust other charges for regulatory or competitive reasons.. Pricing of our products is also based on long-term assumptions regarding interest rates, investment returns and operating costs. Management establishes target returns for each product based upon these factors, the other underwriting assumptions noted above and the average amount of regulatory and rating agency capital that we must hold to support in-force contracts. We monitor and manage pricing and sales to achieve target returns. Profitability from new business emerges over a period of years, depending on the nature and life of the product, and is subject to variability as actual results may differ from pricing assumptions. Our profitability depends on multiple factors, including the comparison of actual mortality, morbidity and persistency rates and policyholder behavior to our assumptions; the adequacy of investment margins; our management of market and credit risks associated with investments; our ability to maintain premiums and contract charges at a level adequate to cover mortality, benefits and contract administration expenses; the adequacy of contract charges and availability of revenue from providers of investment options offered in variable contracts to cover the cost of product features and other expenses; and management of operating costs and expenses.. Unfavorable developments in interest rates, credit spreads and policyholder behavior can result in adverse financial consequences related to our stable value products, and our hedge program and risk mitigation features may not successfully offset these consequences.. We offer stable value products primarily as a fixed rate, liquid asset allocation option for employees of our plan sponsor customers within the defined contribution funding plans offered by our Retirement business. Although a majority of these products do not provide for a guaranteed minimum credited rate, a portion of this book of business provides a guaranteed annual credited rate (currently up to three percent) on the invested assets in addition to enabling participants the right to withdraw and transfer funds at book value.. The sensitivity of our statutory reserves and surplus established for the stable value products to changes in interest rates, credit spreads and policyholder behavior will vary depending on the magnitude of these changes, as well as on the book value of assets, the market value of assets, the guaranteed credited rates available to customers and other product features. Realization or re-measurement of these risks may result in an increase in the reserves for stable value products, and could materially and adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. In particular, in extended low interest rate environments, we bear exposure to the risk that reserves must be added to fund book value withdrawals and transfers when guaranteed annual credited rates exceed the earned rate on invested assets. In a rising interest rate environment, we are exposed to the risk of financial disintermediation through a potential increase in the level of book value withdrawals.. Although we maintain a hedge program and other risk mitigating features to offset these risks, such program and features may not operate as intended or may not be fully effective, and we may remain exposed to such risks.. We may be required to accelerate the amortization of DAC, deferred sales inducements (\"DSI\") and/or VOBA, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. DAC represents policy acquisition costs that have been capitalized. DSI represents benefits paid to contract owners for a specified period that are incremental to the amounts we credit on similar contracts without sales inducements and are higher than the contract's expected ongoing crediting rates for periods after the inducement. VOBA represents outstanding value of in-force business acquired. Capitalized costs associated with DAC, DSI and VOBA are amortized in proportion to actual and estimated gross profits, gross premiums or gross revenues depending on the type of contract. On an ongoing basis, we test the DAC, DSI and VOBA recorded on our balance sheets to determine if these amounts are recoverable under current assumptions. In addition, we regularly review the estimates and assumptions underlying DAC, DSI and VOBA. The projection of estimated gross profits, gross premiums or gross revenues requires the use of certain assumptions, principally related to separate account fund returns in excess of amounts credited to policyholders, policyholder behavior such as surrender, lapse and annuitization rates, interest margin, expense margin, mortality, future impairments and hedging costs. Estimating future gross profits, gross premiums or gross revenues is a complex process requiring considerable judgment and the forecasting of events well into the future. If these assumptions prove to be. 56. inaccurate, if an estimation technique used to estimate future gross profits, gross premiums or gross revenues is changed, or if significant or sustained equity market declines occur and/or persist, we could be required to accelerate the amortization of DAC, DSI and VOBA, which would result in a charge to earnings. Such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Reinsurance subjects us to the credit risk of reinsurers and may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses.. We cede life insurance policies and annuity contracts or certain risks related to life insurance policies and annuity contracts to other insurance companies using various forms of reinsurance, including coinsurance, modified coinsurance, funds withheld, monthly renewable term and yearly renewable term. However, we remain liable to the underlying policyholders, even if the reinsurer defaults on its obligations with respect to the ceded business. If a reinsurer fails to meet its obligations under the reinsurance contract, we will be forced to bear the entire liability for claims on the reinsured policies. In addition, a reinsurer insolvency may cause us to lose our reserve credits on the ceded business, in which case we would be required to establish additional statutory reserves.. In addition, if a reinsurer does not have accredited reinsurer status, or if a currently accredited reinsurer loses that status, in any state where we are licensed to do business, we are not entitled to take credit for reinsurance in that state if the reinsurer does not post sufficient qualifying collateral (either qualifying assets in a qualifying trust or qualifying LOCs). In this event, we would be required to establish additional statutory reserves. Similarly, the credit for reinsurance taken by our insurance subsidiaries under reinsurance agreements with affiliated and unaffiliated non-accredited reinsurers is, under certain conditions, dependent upon the non-accredited reinsurer's ability to obtain and provide sufficient qualifying assets in a qualifying trust or qualifying LOCs issued by qualifying lending banks. In order to control expenses associated with LOCs, some of our affiliated reinsurers have established and will continue to pursue alternative sources for qualifying reinsurance collateral. If these steps are unsuccessful, or if unaffiliated non-accredited reinsurers that have reinsured business from our insurance subsidiaries are unsuccessful in obtaining sources of qualifying reinsurance collateral, our insurance subsidiaries might not be able to obtain full statutory reserve credit. Loss of reserve credit by an insurance subsidiary would require it to establish additional statutory reserves and would result in a decrease in the level of its capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, results of operations and financial condition.. Our reinsurance recoverable balances are periodically assessed for uncollectability and there were no significant allowances for uncollectible reinsurance as of December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016. The collectability of reinsurance recoverables is subject to uncertainty arising from a number of factors, including whether the insured losses meet the qualifying conditions of the reinsurance contract, whether reinsurers or their affiliates have the financial capacity and willingness to make payments under the terms of the reinsurance contract, and the degree to which our reinsurance balances are secured by sufficient qualifying assets in qualifying trusts or qualifying LOCs issued by qualifying lender banks. Although a substantial portion of our reinsurance exposure is secured by assets held in trusts or LOCs, the inability to collect a material recovery from a reinsurer could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, results of operations and financial condition. For additional information regarding our unsecured reinsurance recoverable balances, see \"Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk - Market Risk Related to Credit Risk\" in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. The premium rates and other fees that we charge are based, in part, on the assumption that reinsurance will be available at a certain cost. Some of our reinsurance contracts contain provisions that limit the reinsurer's ability to increase rates on in-force business; however, some do not. If a reinsurer raises the rates that it charges on a block of in-force business, in some instances, we will not be able to pass the increased costs onto our customers and our profitability will be negatively impacted. Additionally, such a rate increase could result in our recapturing of the business, which may result in a need to maintain additional reserves, reduce reinsurance receivables and expose us to greater risks. While in recent years, we have faced a number of rate increase actions on in-force business, our management of those actions has not had a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition. However, there can be no assurance that the outcome of future rate increase actions would similarly result in no material effect. In addition, if reinsurers raise the rates that they charge on new business, we may be forced to raise our premiums, which could have a negative impact on our competitive position.. A decrease in the RBC ratio (as a result of a reduction in statutory surplus and/or increase in RBC requirements) of our insurance subsidiaries could result in increased scrutiny by insurance regulators and rating agencies and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The NAIC has established regulations that provide minimum capitalization requirements based on RBC formulas for insurance companies. The RBC formula for life insurance companies establishes capital requirements relating to asset, insurance, interest rate and business risks, including equity, interest rate and expense recovery risks associated with variable annuities and group annuities that contain guaranteed minimum death and living benefits. Each of our insurance subsidiaries is subject to RBC standards. 57. and/or other minimum statutory capital and surplus requirements imposed under the laws of its respective jurisdiction of domicile. For additional discussion of possible updates to how the NAIC calculates RBC ratios, see \"Item 1. Business -  Regulation  - Regulation Affecting Voya Financial, Inc. - Financial Regulation - Risk-Based Capital.\". In any particular year, statutory surplus amounts and RBC ratios may increase or decrease depending on a variety of factors, including the amount of statutory income or losses generated by the insurance subsidiary (which itself is sensitive to equity market and credit market conditions), the amount of additional capital such insurer must hold to support business growth, changes in equity market levels, the value and credit ratings of certain fixed-income and equity securities in its investment portfolio, the value of certain derivative instruments that do not receive hedge accounting and changes in interest rates, as well as changes to the RBC formulas and the interpretation of the NAIC's instructions with respect to RBC calculation methodologies. In addition, as further described below under \"Changes in tax laws and interpretations of existing tax law could increase our tax costs, impact the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to make distributions to Voya Financial, Inc. or make our insurance, annuity and investment product less attractive to customers,\" the federal tax legislation signed into law on December 22, 2017 (\"Tax Reform\") has caused us to write down the carrying value of our deferred tax asset as of December 31, 2017, which has, among other effects, result in a lowering of our RBC ratios. In addition, if the NAIC were to update the RBC formula for reduced corporate tax rates, we estimate our combined RBC ratio would be lower by 60 to 70 RBC percentage points. Many of these factors are outside of our control. Our financial strength and credit ratings are significantly influenced by statutory surplus amounts and RBC ratios. In addition, rating agencies may implement changes to their own internal models, which differ from the RBC capital model, that have the effect of increasing or decreasing the amount of statutory capital we or our insurance subsidiaries should hold relative to the rating agencies' expectations. In extreme scenarios of equity market declines, sustained periods of low interest rates, rapidly rising interest rates or credit spread widening, the amount of additional statutory reserves that an insurance subsidiary is required to hold for certain types of GICs and variable annuity guarantees and stable value contracts may increase at a greater than linear rate. This increase in reserves would decrease the statutory surplus available for use in calculating the subsidiary's RBC ratios. To the extent that an insurance subsidiary's RBC ratios are deemed to be insufficient, we may seek to take actions either to increase the capitalization of the insurer or to reduce the capitalization requirements. If we were unable to accomplish such actions, the rating agencies may view this as a reason for a ratings downgrade.. The failure of any of our insurance subsidiaries to meet its applicable RBC requirements or minimum capital and surplus requirements could subject it to further examination or corrective action imposed by insurance regulators, including limitations on its ability to write additional business, supervision by regulators or seizure or liquidation. Any corrective action imposed could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A decline in RBC ratios, whether or not it results in a failure to meet applicable RBC requirements, may still limit the ability of an insurance subsidiary to make dividends or distributions to us, could result in a loss of customers or new business, and could be a factor in causing ratings agencies to downgrade the insurer's financial strength ratings, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our statutory reserve financings may be subject to cost increases and new financings may be subject to limited market capacity.. We have financing facilities in place for our previously written business and have remaining capacity in existing facilities to support writings through the end of 2017 or later. However certain of these facilities mature prior to the run off of the reserve liability so that we are subject to cost increases or unavailability of capacity upon the refinancing. If we are unable to refinance such facilities, or if the cost of such facilities were to significantly increase, we could be required to obtain other forms of equity or debt financing in order to prevent a reduction in our statutory capitalization. We could incur higher operating or tax costs if the cost of these facilities were to significantly increase or if the cost of replacement financing were significantly higher. For more details, see \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Credit Facilities and Subsidiary Credit Support Arrangements.\". A significant portion of our institutional funding originates from two Federal Home Loan Banks, which subjects us to liquidity risks associated with sourcing a large concentration of our funding from two counterparties.. A significant portion of our institutional funding agreements originates from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Topeka and the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines (each an \"FHLB\"). As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, for our continuing operations, we had $501 million and $300 million of non-putable funding agreements in force, respectively, in exchange for eligible collateral in the form of cash, mortgage backed securities, commercial real estate and U.S. Treasury securities. In addition, for our business held for sale, we had $602 million as of December 31, 2017 and no outstanding balance as of December 31, 2016 related to non-putable funding agreements in force, which we are required to unwind in connection with the Transaction.. Should the FHLBs choose to change their definition of eligible collateral, change the lendable value against such collateral or if the market value of the pledged collateral decreases in value due to changes in interest rates or credit ratings, we may be required. 58. to post additional amounts of collateral in the form of cash or other eligible collateral. Additionally, we may be required to find other sources to replace this funding if we lose access to FHLB funding. This could occur if our creditworthiness falls below either of the FHLB's requirements or if legislative or other political actions cause changes to the FHLBs' mandate or to the eligibility of life insurance companies to be members of the FHLB system.. Any failure to protect the confidentiality of customer information could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.. Our businesses and relationships with customers are dependent upon our ability to maintain the security and confidentiality of our and our customers' personal information, trade secrets and other confidential information (including customer transactional data and personal information about our customers, the employees and customers of our customers, and our own employees). We are also subject to numerous federal and state laws regarding the privacy and security of personal information, which laws vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Many of our employees and contractors and the representatives of our broker-dealer subsidiaries have access to and routinely process personal information in computerized, paper and other forms. We rely on various internal policies, procedures and controls to protect the security and confidentiality of personal and confidential information that is accessible to, or in the possession of, us or our employees, contractors and representatives. It is possible that an employee, contractor or representative could, intentionally or unintentionally, disclose or misappropriate personal information or other confidential information. If we fail to maintain adequate internal controls, including any failure to implement newly-required additional controls, or if our employees, contractors or representatives fail to comply with our policies and procedures, misappropriation or intentional or unintentional inappropriate disclosure or misuse of personal information or confidential customer information could occur. Such internal control inadequacies or non-compliance could materially damage our reputation, result in regulatory action or lead to civil or criminal penalties, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. For additional risks related to our potential failure to protect confidential information, see \" - Interruption or other operational failures in telecommunication, information technology, and other operational systems, including as a result of human error, could harm our business,\" and \" - A failure to maintain the security, integrity, confidentiality or privacy of our telecommunication, information technology or other operational systems, or the sensitive data residing on such systems, could harm our business.\". Interruption or other operational failures in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, including as a result of human error, could harm our business.. We are highly dependent on automated and information technology systems to record and process both our internal transactions and transactions involving our customers, as well as to calculate reserves, value invested assets and complete certain other components of our U.S. GAAP and statutory financial statements. We could experience a degradation, error, disruption or failure of one or more of these systems, our employees or agents could fail to monitor and implement enhancements or other modifications to a system in a timely and effective manner, or our employees or agents could fail to complete all necessary data reconciliation or other conversion controls when implementing a new system or application or implementing modifications to an existing system or application. Despite the implementation of security and back-up measures, our information technology systems may remain vulnerable to disruptions. We may also be subject to disruptions of any of these systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, epidemics, computer viruses and electrical/telecommunications outages). All of these risks are also applicable where we rely on outside vendors to provide services to us and our customers and third party service providers, including those to whom we outsource certain of our functions. The failure of any one of these systems for any reason, or errors made by our employees or agents, could in each case cause significant interruptions to our operations, which could harm our reputation, adversely affect our internal control over financial reporting, or have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Central banks in Europe and Japan have pursued negative interest rate policies in the past and, while current conditions in the U.S. have made this less likely, the FOMC has not completely ruled out the possibility that the Federal Reserve would adopt a negative interest rate policy for the United States at some point in the future if circumstances so warranted. Because negative interest rates are largely unprecedented, there is uncertainty as to whether the technology used by financial institutions, including us, could operate correctly in such a scenario. Should negative interest rates emerge, our hardware or software, or the hardware or software used by our contractual counterparties and financial services providers, may not function as expected or at all. In such a case, our financial results and our operations could be adversely affected.. A failure to maintain the security, integrity, confidentiality or privacy of our telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or the sensitive data residing on such systems, could harm our business.. We are highly dependent on automated telecommunications, information technology and other operational systems to record and process our internal transactions and transactions involving our customers. Despite the implementation of security and back-up. 59. measures, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to physical or electronic intrusions, viruses or other attacks, programming errors, and similar disruptions. Businesses in the United States and in other countries have increasingly become the targets of \"cyberattacks,\" \"hacking\" or similar illegal or unauthorized intrusions into computer systems and networks. Such events are often highly publicized, result in the theft of significant amounts of information and funds from online financial accounts, and cause extensive damage to the reputation of the targeted business, in addition to leading to significant expenses associated with investigation, remediation and customer protection measures. Like others in our industry, we are subject to cyber incidents in the ordinary course of our business. Although we seek to limit our vulnerability to such events through technological and other means, it is not possible to anticipate or prevent all potential forms of cyberattack or to guarantee our ability to fully defend against all such attacks. In addition, due to the sensitive nature of much of the financial and other personal information we maintain, we may be at particular risk for targeting.. We retain personal and confidential information and financial accounts in our information technology systems, and we rely on industry standard commercial technologies to maintain the security of those systems. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures and penetrate our information technology systems could access, view, misappropriate, alter, or delete information in the systems, including personal information and proprietary business information, and misappropriate funds from online financial accounts. Information security risks also exist with respect to the use of portable electronic devices, such as laptops, which are particularly vulnerable to loss and theft. The laws of most states require that individuals be notified if a security breach compromises the security or confidentiality of their personal information. Any attack or other breach of the security of our information technology systems that compromises personal information or that otherwise results in unauthorized disclosure or use of personal information, could damage our reputation in the marketplace, deter purchases of our products, subject us to heightened regulatory scrutiny, sanctions, significant civil and criminal liability or other adverse legal consequences and require us to incur significant technical, legal and other expenses.. Our third party service providers, including third parties to whom we outsource certain of our functions are also subject to the risks outlined above, any one of which could result in our incurring substantial costs and other negative consequences, including a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The NAIC, numerous state and federal regulatory bodies and self-regulatory organizations like FINRA are focused on cybersecurity standards both for the financial services industry and for all companies that collect personal information, and have proposed legislation, regulations, and issued guidance regarding cybersecurity standards and protocols. For example, in February 2017, the NYDFS issued final Cybersecurity Requirements for Financial Services Companies that would require banks, insurance companies, and other financial services institutions regulated by the NYDFS, including us, to establish and maintain a cybersecurity program \"designed to protect consumers and ensure the safety and soundness of New York State's financial services industry.\"  The regulation became effective on March 1, 2017 and has transition periods ranging up to two years from that date.  We continue to evaluate this regulation and its potential impact on our operations, but depending on its implementation, we and other financial services companies may be required to incur significant expense in order to meet its requirements. During 2018, we expect cybersecurity risk management, prioritization and reporting to continue to be an area of significant focus by governments, regulatory bodies and self-regulatory organizations at all levels.. Changes in accounting standards could adversely impact our reported results of operations and our reported financial condition.. Our financial statements are subject to the application of U.S. GAAP, which is periodically revised or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\"). It is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. FASB is working on several projects which could result in significant changes in U.S. GAAP, including how we account for our insurance contracts and financial instruments and how our financial statements are presented. The changes to U.S. GAAP could affect the way we account for and report significant areas of our business, could impose special demands on us in the areas of governance, employee training, internal controls and disclosure and will likely affect how we manage our business.. 60. We may be required to reduce the carrying value of our deferred income tax asset or establish an additional valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset if: (i) there are significant changes to federal tax policy, (ii) our business does not generate sufficient taxable income; (iii) there is a significant decline in the fair market value of our investment portfolio; or (iv) our tax planning strategies are not feasible. Reductions in the carrying value of our deferred income tax asset or increases in the deferred tax valuation allowance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets represent the tax benefit of future deductible temporary differences, operating loss carryforwards and tax credits carryforward. We periodically evaluate and test our ability to realize our deferred tax assets. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based on the weight of evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion, or all, of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In assessing the more likely than not criteria, we consider future taxable income as well as prudent tax planning strategies. In 2017, Tax Reform resulted in a reduction of an estimated $679 million in our net deferred tax asset position as of December 31, 2017, which includes $146 million associated with assets held for sale, and is reflected in income from continuing operations. This reduction is substantially all due to the reduction in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. This estimate includes the effect of a reduction in our deferred tax liability within AOCI. Exclusive of the AOCI amount, the reduction in our deferred tax asset position is estimated at $1 billion. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2017, we had a loss of $692 million of deferred tax assets related to businesses held for sale in connection with the Transaction.. The final impact to our deferred taxes could be materially adversely affected by future clarifications in, or guidance related to, Tax Reform. In addition, changes in facts, circumstances, tax law, including a further reduction in federal corporate tax rates or the elimination of the dividends received deduction may result in a reduction in the carrying value of our deferred income tax asset or an increase in the valuation allowance. A reduction in the carrying value of our deferred income tax asset or an increase in the valuation allowance could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. Tax Reform also resulted in a reduction in the combined statutory deferred tax asset of our insurance companies, reducing their combined RBC ratio. Future changes or clarifications in tax law could cause further reductions to the statutory deferred tax assets and RBC ratios of our insurance subsidiaries. A reduction in the statutory deferred tax assets or RBC ratios of our insurance subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. As of December 31, 2017, we have an estimated net deferred tax asset balance of $781 million. Recognition of this asset has been based on projections of future taxable income and on tax planning related to unrealized gains on investment assets. To the extent that our estimates of future taxable income decrease or if actual future taxable income is less than the projected amounts, the recognition of the deferred tax asset may be reduced. Also, to the extent unrealized gains decrease, the tax benefit may be reduced. Any reduction, including a reduction associated with a decrease in tax rate, in the deferred tax asset may be recorded as a tax expense in tax on continuing operations based on the intra period tax allocation rules described in ASC Topic 740, \"Income Taxes.\". Our ability to use certain beneficial U.S. tax attributes is subject to limitations.. Section 382 (\"Section 382\") and Section 383 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Internal Revenue Code\"), operate as anti-abuse rules, the general purpose of which is to prevent trafficking in tax losses and credits, but which can apply without regard to whether a \"loss trafficking\" transaction occurs or is intended. These rules are triggered by the occurrence of an ownership change - generally defined as when the ownership of a company, or its parent, changes by more than 50% (measured by value) on a cumulative basis in any three year period (\"Section 382 event\"). If triggered, the amount of the taxable income for any post-change year which may be offset by a pre-change loss is subject to an annual limitation. Generally speaking, this limitation is derived by multiplying the fair market value of the Company immediately before the date of the Section 382 event by the applicable federal long-term tax-exempt rate. Although we experienced a Section 382 event during the quarter ended March 31, 2014, the deferred tax asset, the valuation allowance, and the admitted deferred tax asset did not change as a result of this event. As of December 31, 2017 the Company has net operating losses and capital losses of approximately $2.8 billion and tax credits of approximately $190 million subject to the annual Section 382 limitations. As part of our participation in the IRS's Compliance Assurance Process (\"CAP\"), in December 2014, we entered into an Issue Resolution Agreement (\"IA\") with the IRS relating to the Internal Revenue Code Section 382 calculation of the annual limitation on the use of certain of the Company's federal tax attributes that will apply as a consequence of the Section 382 event experienced by the Company in March 2014. We do not expect the annual limitation to impact our ability to utilize the losses or credits. However, the matters addressed by the IA may be re-visited by the IRS in connection with a tax audit or other examination or inquiry of the Company's tax position. If the IRS were to revisit and successfully challenge the Company's Section 382 calculations, this could impact our ability to obtain tax benefits from existing attributes as well as future losses and deductions.. 61. Our business may be negatively affected by adverse publicity or increased governmental and regulatory actions with respect to us, other well-known companies or the financial services industry in general.. Governmental scrutiny with respect to matters relating to compensation, compliance with regulatory and tax requirements and other business practices in the financial services industry has increased dramatically in the past several years and has resulted in more aggressive and intense regulatory supervision and the application and enforcement of more stringent standards. The financial crisis of 2008-09 and current political and public sentiment regarding financial institutions has resulted in a significant amount of adverse press coverage, as well as adverse statements or charges by regulators and elected officials. Press coverage and other public statements that assert some form of wrongdoing, regardless of the factual basis for the assertions being made, could result in some type of inquiry or investigation by regulators, legislators and/or law enforcement officials or in lawsuits. Responding to these inquiries, investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, is time-consuming and expensive and can divert the time and effort of our senior management from its business. Future legislation or regulation or governmental views on compensation may result in us altering compensation practices in ways that could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain talented employees. Adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny, pending or future investigations by regulators or law enforcement agencies and/or legal proceedings involving us or our affiliates, could also have a negative impact on our reputation and on the morale and performance of employees, and on business retention and new sales, which could adversely affect our businesses and results of operations.. Litigation may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.. We are, and may be in the future, subject to legal actions in the ordinary course of insurance, investment management and other business operations. Some of these legal proceedings may be brought on behalf of a class. Plaintiffs may seek large or indeterminate amounts of damage, including compensatory, liquidated, treble and/or punitive damages. Our reserves for litigation may prove to be inadequate and insurance coverage may not be available or may be declined for certain matters. It is possible that our results of operations or cash flows in a particular interim or annual period could be materially affected by an ultimate unfavorable resolution of pending litigation depending, in part, upon the results of operations or cash flows for such period. Given the large or indeterminate amounts sometimes sought, and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is also possible that in certain cases an ultimate unfavorable resolution of one or more pending litigation matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. A loss of, or significant change in, key product distribution relationships could materially affect sales.. We distribute certain products under agreements with affiliated distributors and other members of the financial services industry that are not affiliated with us. We compete with other financial institutions to attract and retain commercial relationships in each of these channels, and our success in competing for sales through these distribution intermediaries depends upon factors such as the amount of sales commissions and fees we pay, the breadth of our product offerings, the strength of our brand, our perceived stability and financial strength ratings, and the marketing and services we provide to, and the strength of the relationships we maintain with, individual distributors. An interruption or significant change in certain key relationships could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Distributors may elect to alter, reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us, including for such reasons as changes in our distribution strategy, adverse developments in our business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks. Alternatively, we may terminate one or more distribution agreements due to, for example, a loss of confidence in, or a change in control of, one of the distributors, which could reduce sales.. We are also at risk that key distribution partners may merge or change their business models in ways that affect how our products are sold, either in response to changing business priorities or as a result of shifts in regulatory supervision or potential changes in state and federal laws and regulations regarding standards of conduct applicable to distributors when providing investment advice to retail and other customers.. The occurrence of natural or man-made disasters may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We are exposed to various risks arising from natural disasters, including hurricanes, climate change, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes and pandemic disease, as well as man-made disasters and core infrastructure failures, including acts of terrorism, military actions, power grid and telephone/internet infrastructure failures, which may adversely affect AUM, results of operations and financial condition by causing, among other things:. • losses in our investment portfolio due to significant volatility in global financial markets or the failure of counterparties to perform;. 62. • changes in the rate of mortality, claims, withdrawals, lapses and surrenders of existing policies and contracts, as well as sales of new policies and contracts; and. • disruption of our normal business operations due to catastrophic property damage, loss of life, or disruption of public and private infrastructure, including communications and financial services.. There can be no assurance that our business continuation and crisis management plan or insurance coverages would be effective in mitigating any negative effects on operations or profitability in the event of a disaster, nor can we provide assurance that the business continuation and crisis management plans of the independent distributors and outside vendors on whom we rely for certain services and products would be effective in mitigating any negative effects on the provision of such services and products in the event of a disaster.. Claims resulting from a catastrophic event could also materially harm the financial condition of our reinsurers, which would increase the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. Our ability to write new business could also be adversely affected.. In addition, the jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business require life insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which raise funds to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. It is possible that a catastrophic event could require extraordinary assessments on our insurance companies, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The loss of key personnel could negatively affect our financial results and impair our ability to implement our business strategy.. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain key people. Intense competition exists for key employees with demonstrated ability, and we may be unable to hire or retain such employees. Our key employees include investment professionals, such as portfolio managers, sales and distribution professionals, actuarial and finance professionals and information technology professionals. While we do not believe that the departure of any particular individual would cause a material adverse effect on our operations, the unexpected loss of several of our senior management, portfolio managers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations due to the loss of their skills, knowledge of our business, and their years of industry experience as well as the potential difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement employees. We also rely upon the knowledge and experience of employees involved in functions that require technical expertise in order to provide for sound operational controls for our overall enterprise, including the accurate and timely preparation of required regulatory filings and U.S. GAAP and statutory financial statements and operation of internal controls. A loss of such employees could adversely impact our ability to execute key operational functions and could adversely affect our operational controls, including internal controls over financial reporting.. If we experience difficulties arising from outsourcing relationships, our ability to conduct business may be compromised, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. As we continue to focus on reducing the expense necessary to support our operations, we have increasingly used outsourcing strategies for a significant portion of our information technology and business functions. If third-party providers experience disruptions or do not perform as anticipated, or we experience problems with a transition, we may experience system failures, disruptions, or other operational difficulties, an inability to meet obligations, including, but not limited to, obligations to policyholders, customers, business partners and distribution partners, increased costs and a loss of business, and such events may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For other risks associated with our outsourcing of certain functions, see \" - Interruption or other operational failures in telecommunication, information technology, and other operational systems, including as a result of human error, could harm our business,\" and \" - A failure to maintain the security, integrity, confidentiality or privacy of our telecommunication, information technology or other operational systems, or the sensitive data residing on such systems, could harm our business.\". We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims.. We rely on a combination of contracts and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property. Although we endeavor to protect our rights, third parties may infringe upon or misappropriate our intellectual property. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, and trade secrets or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. This would represent a diversion of resources that may be significant and our efforts may not prove successful. The inability to secure or protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete.. 63. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for (i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement, (ii) breach of contractual patent, trademark or copyright license rights, or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. If we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, technology copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. Alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or implement a costly work around. Any of these scenarios could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We may incur further liabilities in respect of our defined benefit retirement plans for our employees if the value of plan assets is not sufficient to cover potential obligations, including as a result of differences between results underlying actuarial assumptions and models.. We operate various defined benefit retirement plans covering a significant number of our employees. The liability recognized in our consolidated balance sheet in respect of our defined benefit plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of each plan's assets. We determine our defined benefit plan obligations based on external actuarial models and calculations using the projected unit credit method. Inherent in these actuarial models are assumptions including discount rates, rates of increase in future salary and benefit levels, mortality rates, consumer price index and the expected return on plan assets. These assumptions are updated annually based on available market data and the expected performance of plan assets. Nevertheless, the actuarial assumptions may differ significantly from actual results due to changes in market conditions, economic and mortality trends and other assumptions. Any changes in these assumptions could have a significant impact on our present and future liabilities to and costs associated with our defined benefit retirement plans and may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability.. When contributing to our qualified retirement plans, we will take into consideration the minimum and maximum amounts required by ERISA, the attained funding target percentage of the plan, the variable-rate premiums that may be required by the PBGC, and any funding relief that might be enacted by Congress. These factors could lead to increased PBGC variable-rate premiums and/or increases in plan funding in future years.. Although our retail variable annuity products with substantial guarantee features are now managed within our CBVA business, we continue to offer variable annuity products and other products with similar features in our other segments.. In 2009, we decided to cease sales of retail variable annuities with substantial guarantee features and now manage that business within our CBVA business. However, we continue to offer products that have features of variable annuities such as guaranteed benefits. For example, certain of the deferred annuities sold by our Retirement segment are on group and individual variable annuity policy forms, since these product types allow customers to allocate their retirement savings to a variety of different investment options. These products may contain guaranteed death benefit features, but they do not offer guaranteed living benefit features of the type found within CBVA.. Our Annuities business also offers guaranteed withdrawal benefit provisions on certain indexed annuity products.. To the extent that the foregoing risk-control measures do not sufficiently mitigate the associated risks, and to the extent that we continue to offer variable annuity products and products with similar features in our other segments, the risks described below under \"Risks Related to Our CBVA Business\" could impact our other segments.. 64. Risks Related to Our CBVA Business. Although we no longer actively market retail variable annuities with substantial guarantee features, our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity will continue to be affected by our CBVA business until it is fully divested.. Our CBVA business consists of retail variable annuity insurance policies sold primarily from 2001 to early 2010, when the block entered run-off. CBVA represented 11.7% of our total AUM as of December 31, 2017. See \"Item 1. Business - CBVA and Annuities Businesses - CBVA.\" These products offered long-term savings vehicles in which customers (policyholders) made deposits that were invested, largely at the customer's direction, in a variety of U.S. and international equity, fixed income, real estate and other investment options. In addition, these products provided customers with the option to purchase living benefit riders, including GMWBL, GMIB, GMAB and GMWB. All retail variable annuity products include GMDB. In 2009, we decided to cease sales of retail variable annuity products with substantial guarantee features. In early 2010, we ceased all new sales of these products with substantial guarantees, although we continue to accept new deposits in accordance with, and subject to the limitations of, the provisions of existing contracts. In some cases, these additional deposits may increase the guarantee available to policyholder. We will continue to bear the risks associated with these policies until the closing of the Transaction, or indefinitely, if the Transaction fails to close.. Market movements and actuarial assumption changes (including, with respect to policyholder behavior and mortality) can result in material adverse impacts to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Because policyholders have various contractual rights to defer withdrawals, annuitization and/or maturity of their contracts, the nature and period of contract maturity is subject to policyholder behavior and is therefore indeterminate. Future market movements and changes in actuarial assumptions can result in significant earnings and liquidity impacts, as well as increases in regulatory reserve and capital requirements for CBVA. The latter may necessitate additional capital contributions into the business and/or adversely impact dividend capacity.. Our CBVA business is subject to market risks.. Our CBVA business is subject to a number of market risks, primarily associated with U.S. and other global equity market values and interest rates. For example, declining equity market values, increasing equity market volatility, declining interest rates or a prolonged period of low interest rates can result in an increase in the valuation of future policy benefits, reducing our net income or resulting in net losses. Declining market values for bonds and equities also reduce the account balances of our variable annuity contracts, and since we collect fees and risk charges based on these account balances, our net income may be further reduced. We will continue to bear these risks until the closing of the Transaction, or indefinitely, if the Transaction fails to close.. Declining interest rates, a prolonged period of low interest rates, increased equity market volatility or declining equity market values may also subject us to increased hedging costs. Market events can cause an increase in the amount of statutory reserves that our insurance subsidiaries are required to hold for variable annuity guarantees, lowering their statutory surplus, which would adversely impact their ability to pay dividends to us. An increase in interest rates could result in decreased fee income associated with a decline in the value of variable annuity account balances invested in fixed income funds, which also might affect the value of the underlying guarantees within these variable annuities.. We hedge some, but not all, of the market risk to which our CBVA business is exposed. To the extent that market conditions develop for which we do not have adequate hedge protection, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. The performance of our CBVA business depends on assumptions that may not be accurate.. Our CBVA business is subject to risks associated with the future behavior of policyholders and future claims payment patterns, using assumptions for mortality experience, lapse rates, GMIB annuitization rates and GMWBL withdrawal rates. We are required to make assumptions about these behaviors and patterns, which may not reflect the actual behaviors and patterns we experience in the future. It is possible that future assumption changes could produce reserve changes that could be material. Any such increase to reserves could require us to make material additional capital contributions to one or more of our insurance company subsidiaries or could otherwise be material and adverse to the results of operations or financial condition of the Company. We will continue to bear these risks until the closing of the Transaction, or indefinitely, if the Transaction fails to close.. In particular, we have only minimal experience regarding the long-term implications of policyholder behavior for our GMIB and as a result, future experience could lead to significant changes in our assumptions. Our GMIB contracts, most of which were issued during the period from 2004 to 2006, have a ten-year waiting period before annuitization is available. These contracts first became eligible to annuitize during the period from 2014 through 2016, but contain significant incentives to delay annuitization beyond the first eligibility date. In recent years, we have made several surrender and income enhancement offers to holders of particular. 65. series of GMIB contracts, under which policy holders were offered an incentive to surrender their contract or to annuitize prior to the end of the waiting period, and we have waived the remaining waiting period on these GMIB contracts. As a result, although we have increased experience on policyholder behavior for the first opportunity to annuitize, including from the acceptance rates of the surrender and income enhancement offers, we continue to have only a statistically small sample of experience used to set annuitization rates beyond the maximum rollup period. Therefore, we anticipate that observable experience data will become statistically credible later in this decade, when a large volume of GMIB benefits begin to reach their maximum rollup period over the period from 2019 to 2022.. Similarly, most of our GMWBL contracts were issued during the period from 2006 to 2009, so our assumptions for withdrawal from contracts with GMWBL benefits may change as experience emerges. In addition, many of our GMWBL contracts contain significant incentives to delay withdrawal with the GMWBL benefits reaching their maximum rollup over the period from 2016 to 2019. Our experience for GMWBL contracts has recently become more credible, however it is possible that policyholders may choose to withdraw sooner or later than our current best estimate assumes. We expect customer decisions on withdrawal will be influenced by their financial plans and needs as well as by market conditions over time and by the availability and features of competing products.. We also make estimates of expected lapse rates, which represent the probability that a policy will not remain in force from one period to the next, for CBVA contracts. Lapse rates of our variable annuity contracts may be significantly impacted by the value of guaranteed minimum benefits relative to the value of the underlying separate accounts (account value or account balance). In general, policies with guarantees that are \"in the money\" are assumed to be less likely to lapse. Conversely, \"out of the money\" guarantees are assumed to be more likely to lapse as the policyholder has less incentive to retain the policy. Lapse rates could also be adversely affected generally by developments that affect customer perception of us.. Our variable annuity lapse rate experience has varied significantly over the period from 2006 to the present, reflecting among other factors, both pre-and post-financial crisis experience. Relative to our current expectations, actual lapse rates have generally demonstrated a declining trend over the period from 2006 to the present. We analyze actual experience over that entire period, as we believe that over the duration of the variable annuity policies we may experience the full range of policyholder behavior and market conditions. However, management's current best estimate of variable annuity policyholder lapse behavior is weighted more heavily toward more recent experience, as the last three years of data have shown a more consistent trend of lapse behavior. We use a combination of actual and industry experience when setting our lapse assumptions.. Actual lapse rates that are lower than our lapse rate assumptions could have an adverse effect on profitability in the later years of a block of business because the anticipated claims experience may be higher than expected in these later years, and, as discussed above, future reserve increases in connection with experience updates could be material and adverse to the results of operations or financial condition of the Company.. We make estimates regarding mortality, which refers to the ceasing of life contingent benefit payments due to the death of the annuitant. Mortality also refers to the incidence of death amongst policyholders triggering the payment of Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits. We use actual experience when setting our mortality assumptions.. We review overall policyholder experience at least annually (including lapse, annuitization and withdrawal), and update these assumptions when deemed necessary based on additional information that becomes available. If policyholder experience is significantly different from that assumed, this could have a significant effect on the Company's reserve levels and related results of operations.. During the third quarter of each year, we conduct our annual review of assumptions, including projection model inputs. For 2017 and 2016, our CBVA assumption changes attributable to policyholder behavior resulted in gains (excluding income taxes) of $116 million and $155 million, respectively. For 2015, our CBVA assumption changes attributable to policyholder behavior resulted in a loss (excluding income taxes) of $43 million. We will continue to monitor the emergence of experience. If adjustments to policyholder behavior assumptions (e.g., lapse, annuitization and withdrawal) are necessary, which is ordinary course for interest-sensitive long-dated liabilities, we anticipate that the financial impact of such a change (either under U.S. GAAP or due to increases or decreases in gross U.S. statutory reserves) will likely be in a range, either up or down, that is generally consistent with the impact experienced in the past three years.. 66. Our Variable Annuity Hedge Program currently focuses on the protection of regulatory and rating agency capital from market movements and less on the U.S. GAAP earnings impact of this block, which could result in materially lower or more volatile U.S. GAAP earnings or significant U.S. GAAP losses.. Our Variable Annuity Hedge Program currently focuses on the protection of regulatory and rating agency capital from market movements rather than on the U.S. GAAP earnings impact of this block. U.S. GAAP accounting differs from the methods used to determine regulatory and rating agency capital measures. Therefore, our Variable Annuity Hedge Program tends to create earnings volatility in our U.S. GAAP financial statements, or produce lower U.S. GAAP income, or U.S. GAAP losses, compared to what our unhedged results would have been. In general, in any given period rising equity market values can produce losses in our Variable Annuity Hedge Program that substantially exceed the benefit we derive from the associated decrease in valuation of the future policy benefits associated with CBVA products on a U.S. GAAP basis, and the impact of declining markets can produce gains in our Variable Annuity Hedge Program that substantially exceed the loss we derive from the associated increase in valuation of the future policy benefits on a U.S. GAAP basis. Changes in other market indicators, including interest rates and volatility, can also create significant U.S. GAAP losses. As a result of the Transaction described in \"Item 1 - Business - Organizational History and Structure - CBVA and Annuity Transaction\", substantially all of our CBVA and Annuities businesses have been reclassified as \"Business Held for Sale/Discontinued Operations.\" Excluding the immaterial portion of the retained business not accounted for in Discontinued Operations, we recorded net gains (losses) related to incurred guaranteed benefits and Variable Annuity Hedge Program, excluding the effect of nonperformance risk, of $(1,136) million, $(1,470) million, and $(1,097) million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations - Company Consolidated.\". As stated above, the primary focus of the hedge program is to protect regulatory and rating agency capital from market movements. Hedge ineffectiveness, along with other aspects not directly hedged (including unexpected policyholder experience), may cause losses of regulatory or rating agency capital. Regulatory and rating agency capital requirements may move disproportionately (i.e., they may change by different amounts as market conditions and other factors change), and, therefore, this could also cause our hedge program to not realize its key objective of protecting both regulatory and rating agency capital from market movements.. Our Variable Annuity Hedge Program may not be effective and may be more costly than anticipated.. We periodically re-evaluate our Variable Annuity Hedge Program to respond to changing market conditions and balance the trade-offs among several important factors, including regulatory reserves, rating agency capital, underlying economics, earnings and other factors. While our Variable Annuity Hedge Program is intended to balance numerous critical metrics, we are subject to the risk that our strategies and other management decisions may prove ineffective or that unexpected policyholder experience, alone or in combination with unfavorable market events, may produce losses or unanticipated cash needs beyond the scope of the risk management strategies employed. The Variable Annuity Hedge Program assumes that hedge positions can be rebalanced during a market shock and that the performance of the derivative contracts reasonably matches the performance of the contract owners' variable fund returns. In addition, our Variable Annuity Hedge Program does not hedge certain non-market risks inherent in this segment, including business, credit, insurance and operational risks; any of these risks could cause us to experience unanticipated losses or cash needs. For example, hedging counterparties may fail to perform their obligations resulting in unhedged exposures and losses on positions that are not collateralized. Finally, the cost of the Variable Annuity Hedge Program itself may be greater than anticipated as adverse market conditions can limit the availability and increase the costs of the hedging instruments we employ, and such costs may not be recovered in the pricing of the underlying products being hedged. For example, the cost of hedging guaranteed minimum benefits increases as market volatilities increase and/or interest rates decrease, resulting in a reduction to net income.. Risks Related to Regulation. Our businesses and those of our affiliates are heavily regulated and changes in regulation or the application of regulation may reduce our profitability.. We are subject to detailed insurance, asset management and other financial services laws and government regulation. In addition to the insurance, asset management and other regulations and laws specific to the industries in which we operate, regulatory agencies have broad administrative power over many aspects of our business, which may include ethical issues, money laundering, privacy, recordkeeping and marketing and sales practices. Also, bank regulators and other supervisory authorities in the United States and elsewhere continue to scrutinize payment processing and other transactions under regulations governing such matters as money-laundering, prohibited transactions with countries subject to sanctions, and bribery or other anti-corruption measures.. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in laws and regulations may materially increase the cost of compliance and other expenses of doing business. There are a number of risks that may arise. 67. where applicable regulations may be unclear, subject to multiple interpretations or under development or where regulations may conflict with one another, where regulators revise their previous guidance or courts overturn previous rulings, which could result in our failure to meet applicable standards. Regulators and other authorities have the power to bring administrative or judicial proceedings against us, which could result, among other things, in suspension or revocation of our licenses, cease and desist orders, fines, civil penalties, criminal penalties or other disciplinary action which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, appropriately any of these matters, our reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to additional legal risk, which could increase the size and number of claims and damages asserted against us or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties. See \"Item 1. Business - Regulation\" for further discussion of the impact of regulations on our businesses.. In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Health Care Act. The Health Care Act regulates coverage that must be provided under employer-sponsored health care plans, which in turn affects the coverage we provide on our Excess Risk Insurance products. There is significant uncertainty surrounding the current administration's efforts to repeal and replace the Health Care Act. Future changes to, or de-funding of, the Health Care Act could result in increased insurance regulatory activity at the state level, which could negatively affect our Employee Benefits segment.. Our insurance businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation in the United States, enforcement actions and regulatory investigations may reduce profitability.. Our insurance operations are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision throughout the United States. State insurance laws regulate most aspects of our insurance businesses, and our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled and the states in which they are licensed. The primary purpose of state regulation is to protect policyholders, and not necessarily to protect creditors and investors. See \"Item 1. Business - Regulation - Insurance Regulation.\". State insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess insurance companies doing business in their state in order to help pay the obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. Because the amount and timing of an assessment is beyond our control, liabilities we have currently established for these potential assessments may not be adequate. State insurance regulators, the NAIC and other regulatory bodies regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We currently use captive reinsurance subsidiaries primarily to reinsure term life insurance, universal life insurance with secondary guarantees, and stable value annuity business. We also use our Arizona captives primarily to reinsure life insurance and annuity business from our insurance subsidiaries. Uncertainties associated with continued use of our captive reinsurance subsidiaries and our Arizona captives are primarily related to potential regulatory changes. In 2014, the NAIC considered a proposal to require states to apply NAIC accreditation standards, applicable to traditional insurers, to captive reinsurers. In 2015, the NAIC adopted such a proposal, in the form of a revised preamble to the NAIC accreditation standards (the \"Standard\"), with an effective date of January 1, 2016 for application of the Standard to captives that assume XXX and AXXX business. Under the Standard, a state will be deemed in compliance as it relates to XXX and AXXX captives if the applicable reinsurance transaction satisfies AG48. In addition, the Standard applies prospectively, so that XXX/AXXX captives will not be subject to the Standard if reinsured policies were issued prior to January 1, 2015 and ceded so that they were part of a reinsurance arrangement as of December 31, 2014. The NAIC left for future action application of the Standard to captives that assume variable annuity business. As drafted, it appears that the Standard would apply to our Arizona captives. During 2015, the NAIC E Committee established the VAIWG to oversee the NAIC's efforts to study and address, as appropriate, regulatory issues resulting in variable annuity captive reinsurance transactions. At various times in the past several years, the NAIC has indicated that it might pursue changes to the current reserve and capital framework that applies to insurers, including several of our Insurance Subsidiaries, who write or reinsure variable annuity (\"VA\") policies. Since 2015, the NAIC's Variable Annuity Issues Working Group (\"VAIWG\") has been considering general proposals for VA reserve and capital reform that would create more uniformity in VA reserving practices and reduce incentives for the use of captive reinsurance arrangements for VA business. These proposals, if adopted, could change the reserves and capital we are required to hold with respect to VA business, particularly in our CBVA business.. During 2016, VAIWG engaged Oliver Wyman (\"OW\") to conduct an initial quantitative impact (\"QIS1\") study involving industry participants, including Voya Financial, of possible revisions to the current VA reserve and capital framework. In late 2016, OW provided the VAIWG a QIS1 report that included preliminary findings and recommended a second quantitative impact study be conducted so that testing can inform the proper calibration for certain conceptual and/or preliminary parameters set out in the QIS1 report. The second quantitative impact study (\"QIS2\") began in February 2017 and OW provided the VAIWG a QIS 2 report in late 2017. The NAIC deliberations on QIS2 results and proposed VA reserve and capital reforms began during the fourth quarter of 2017. It is unlikely that any changes adopted by the NAIC would be effective prior to 2019, although timing remains uncertain.. 68. The outcome of QIS2, and the parameters of any VA reserve and capital reform to be proposed by OW or adopted by the VAIWG, is uncertain at this time. Certain proposals under consideration as part of QIS2, if adopted as a component of any final VA reserve and capital reform, could negatively impact VA reserve and capital calculations for our CBVA business and potentially result in increased collateral requirements at RRII, our Arizona captive that reinsures CBVA living benefit guarantees. It is possible that any negative impacts to statutory reserves or rating agency capital requirements as a result of VA reserve and capital reform could be material to our capital position. If we are required to increase reserves or collateral, we believe it is likely that such increases would be subject to a multiyear grade-in period. At the present time, we cannot predict what, if any, of these proposals may become part of any VA framework reform proposal or what impact any final VAIWG VA framework reform would have on CBVA reserves, capital or captive collateralization requirements.. Any regulatory action that limits our ability to achieve desired benefits from the use of or materially increases our cost of using captive reinsurance companies, either retroactively or prospectively, including, if adopted as proposed, without grandfathering provisions for existing captive variable annuity reinsurance entities, the Standard, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For more detail see \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Statutory Capital and Risk-Based Capital of Principal Insurance Subsidiaries - Captive Reinsurance Subsidiaries.\". Insurance regulators have implemented, or begun to implement significant changes in the way in which insurers must determine statutory reserves and capital, particularly for products with contractual guarantees such as variable annuities and universal life policies, and are considering further potentially significant changes in these requirements. The NAIC's PBR approach for life insurance policies became effective January 1, 2017, and has a three year phase in period. We are currently assessing the impact of, and appropriate implementation plan for, the PBR approach for life policies. The timing and extent of further changes to statutory reserves and reporting requirements are uncertain.. In addition, state insurance regulators have become more active in adopting and enforcing suitability standards with respect to sales of fixed, indexed and variable annuities. In particular, the NAIC has adopted a revised SAT, which will, if enacted by the states, place new responsibilities upon issuing insurance companies with respect to the suitability of annuity sales, including responsibilities for training agents. Many states have taken action to adopt provisions already based on the SAT.. In addition to the foregoing risks, the financial services industry is the focus of increased regulatory scrutiny as various state and federal governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations conduct inquiries and investigations into the products and practices of the financial services industries. For a description of certain regulatory inquiries affecting the Company, see the Litigation and Regulatory Matters section of the Commitments and Contingencies Note in our Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. It is possible that future regulatory inquiries or investigations involving the insurance industry generally, or the Company specifically, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. In some cases, this regulatory scrutiny has led to legislation and regulation, or proposed legislation and regulation that could significantly affect the financial services industry, or has resulted in regulatory penalties, settlements and litigation. New laws, regulations and other regulatory actions aimed at the business practices under scrutiny could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. The adoption of new laws and regulations, enforcement actions, or litigation, whether or not involving us, could influence the manner in which we distribute our products, result in negative coverage of the industry by the media, cause significant harm to our reputation and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Our products are subject to extensive regulation and failure to meet any of the complex product requirements may reduce profitability.. Our insurance, annuity, retirement and investment products are subject to a complex and extensive array of state and federal tax, securities, insurance and employee benefit plan laws and regulations, which are administered and enforced by a number of different governmental and self-regulatory authorities, including state insurance regulators, state securities administrators, state banking authorities, the SEC, FINRA, the DOL and the IRS.. For example, U.S. federal income tax law imposes requirements relating to insurance and annuity product design, administration and investments that are conditions for beneficial tax treatment of such products under the Internal Revenue Code. Additionally, state and federal securities and insurance laws impose requirements relating to insurance and annuity product design, offering and distribution and administration. Failure to administer product features in accordance with contract provisions or applicable law, or to meet any of these complex tax, securities, or insurance requirements could subject us to administrative penalties imposed by. 69. a particular governmental or self-regulatory authority, unanticipated costs associated with remedying such failure or other claims, harm to our reputation, interruption of our operations or adversely impact profitability.. The Dodd-Frank Act, its implementing regulations and other financial regulatory reform initiatives could have adverse consequences for the financial services industry, including us, and/or materially affect our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in 2010, effects comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the United States. The Dodd-Frank Act directs government agencies and bodies to perform studies and promulgate regulations implementing the law, a process that has substantially advanced but is not yet complete. While some studies have already been completed and the rule-making process is well underway, there continues to be uncertainty regarding the results of ongoing studies and the ultimate requirements of the remaining regulations that have yet to be adopted. We cannot predict with certainty how the Dodd-Frank Act and such regulations will continue to affect the financial markets generally, or impact our business, ratings, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. The Dodd-Frank Act's potential effects could include:. • The Dodd-Frank Act creates a framework for regulating over-the-counter (\"OTC\") derivatives which has transformed derivatives markets and trading in significant ways. Under the new regulatory regime and subject to certain exceptions, certain standardized OTC interest rate and credit derivatives must now be cleared through a centralized clearinghouse and executed on a centralized exchange or execution facility, and the CFTC and the SEC may designate additional types of OTC derivatives for mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements in the future. In addition to mandatory central clearing of certain derivatives products, non-centrally cleared OTC derivatives which have been excluded from the clearing mandate and which are used by market participants like us are now subject to additional regulatory reporting and margin requirements. Specifically, both the CFTC and federal banking regulators issued final rules in 2015, which became effective in 2017, establishing minimum margin requirements for OTC derivatives traded by either (non-bank) swap dealers or banks which qualify as swaps entities. Nearly all of the counterparties we trade with are either swap dealers or swap entities subject to these rules. Both the CFTC and prudential regulator margin rules require mandatory exchange of variation margin for most OTC derivatives transacted by us and will require exchange of initial margin commencing in 2020. As a result of the transition to central clearing and the new margin requirements for OTC derivatives, we will be required to hold more cash and highly liquid securities resulting in lower yields in order to satisfy the projected increase in margin required. In addition, increased capital charges imposed by regulators on non-cash collateral held by bank counterparties and central clearinghouses is expected to result in higher hedging costs, causing a reduction in income from investments. We are also observing an increasing reluctance from counterparties to accept certain non-cash collateral from us due to higher capital or operational costs associated with such asset classes that we typically hold in abundance. These developments present potentially significant business, liquidity and operational risk for us which could materially and adversely impact both the cost and our ability to effectively hedge various risks, including equity, interest rate, currency and duration risks within many of our insurance and annuity products and investment portfolios. In addition, inconsistencies between U.S. rules and regulations and parallel regimes in other jurisdictions, such as the EU, may further increase costs of hedging or inhibit our ability to access market liquidity in those other jurisdictions.. • The Dodd-Frank Act also includes various securities law reforms that may affect our business practices. See \" - Changes in U.S. federal and state securities laws and regulations may affect our operations and our profitability\" below.. Although the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act cannot be determined until all remaining final regulations are adopted, many of the legislation's requirements could have profound and/or adverse consequences for the financial services industry, including for us. The Dodd-Frank Act could make it more expensive for us to conduct business, require us to make changes to our business model or satisfy increased capital requirements, subject us to greater regulatory scrutiny or to potential increases in whistleblower claims in light of the increased awards available to whistleblowers under the Act and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, there is substantial uncertainty as to whether aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act or regulatory bodies established thereunder will be impacted by regulatory or legislative changes made by the Trump administration or Congress.. See \"Item 1. Business - Regulation\" for further discussion of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our businesses.. Changes in U.S. federal and state securities laws and regulations may affect our operations and our profitability.. U.S. federal and state securities laws apply to sales of our mutual funds and to our variable annuity and variable life insurance products (which are considered to be both insurance products and securities) as well as to sales of third-party investment products. As a result, some of our subsidiaries and the products they offer are subject to regulation under these federal and state securities laws. Our insurance subsidiaries' separate accounts are registered as investment companies under the Investment Company Act.. 70. Some variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies issued by our insurance subsidiaries also are registered under the Securities Act. Other subsidiaries are registered as broker-dealers under the Exchange Act, are members of, and subject to, regulation by FINRA, and are also registered as broker-dealers in various states, as applicable. In addition, some of our subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act.. Securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in the securities markets or investment advisory or brokerage clients. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with those laws and regulations. A number of changes have recently been proposed to the laws and regulations that govern the conduct of our variable insurance products business and our distributors that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, distribution of our annuity products registered as securities are affected by federal and state securities laws and laws and regulations applicable to broker-dealers.. Changes to federal regulations could adversely affect our distribution model by restricting our ability to provide customers with advice.. In April 2016, the Department of Labor (\"DOL\") issued a final rule that broadened the definition of \"fiduciary\" for purposes of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (\"ERISA\") and the Internal Revenue Code, as it applies to a person or entity providing investment advice with respect to ERISA plans or IRAs. The rule expanded the circumstances in which providers of investment advice to ERISA plan sponsors and plan participants, and IRA investors, are deemed to act in a fiduciary capacity. The rule requires such providers to act in their clients' \"best interests\", not influenced by any conflicts of interest, including due to the direct or indirect receipt of compensation that varies based on the fiduciary's investment recommendation. The DOL concurrently adopted a \"best interest contract exemption\" (\"BIC\") intended to enable continuation of certain industry practices relating to receipt of commissions and other compensation. This exemption enables us and our distributors to continue many historical practices - subject, among other things, to a heightened best interests standard and a requirement that compensation be \"reasonable\". Key provisions of the rule became effective on June 9, 2017, while other provisions (including the requirement to enter into a \"best interest contract\" when relying on the BIC, a provision that would potentially subject advice providers such as us to costly private litigation) have been delayed to July 1, 2019. Under the rule, certain business activities in which we engage, such as IRA rollovers and other IRA sales, have become subject to a heightened fiduciary standard. Where Voya Financial, Inc. is deemed to act in a fiduciary capacity, we have either modified our sales and compensation practices or are relying on an applicable exemption.. The SEC has requested public comment on whether it should issue a rule updating and harmonizing the standard of care applicable to providers of investment advice. During the delay of the DOL rule, we anticipate that the SEC and other federal and state regulators will consider whether a more comprehensive, harmonized approach is preferable to the DOL rule. It is too early to predict the outcome of any such process.. In addition, the rule may make it easier for the DOL in enforcement actions, and for plaintiffs' attorneys in litigation, to attempt to extend fiduciary status to, or to claim fiduciary or contractual breach by, advisors who would not be deemed fiduciaries under current regulations. Compliance with the proposed rule could also increase our overall operational costs for providing some of the services we currently provide. See Part I, Item 1. Business-Regulation-Employee Retirement Income Security Act Considerations.. Changes in U.S. pension laws and regulations may affect our results of operations and our profitability.. Congress from time to time considers pension reform legislation that could decrease the attractiveness of certain of our retirement products and services to retirement plan sponsors and administrators or have an unfavorable effect on our ability to earn revenues from these products and services. In this regard, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 made significant changes in employer pension funding obligations associated with defined benefit pension plans that are likely to increase sponsors' costs of maintaining these plans and imposed certain requirements on defined contribution plans. Over time, these changes could negatively impact our sales of defined benefit or defined contribution plan products and services and cause sponsors to discontinue existing plans for which we provide insurance, asset management, administrative, or other services. Certain tax-favored savings initiatives that have been proposed could hinder sales and persistency of our products and services that support employment-based retirement plans.. The Preservation of Access to Care for Medicare Beneficiaries and Pension Relief Act of 2010 also includes certain provisions for defined benefit pension plan funding relief. These provisions may impact the likelihood of corporate plan sponsors terminating their plans and/or engaging in transactions to partially or fully transfer pension obligations to an insurance company. As part of our retirement services segment, we offer general account and separate account group annuity products that enable a plan sponsor to transfer these risks, often in connection with the termination of defined benefit pension plans. Consequently, this legislation could indirectly affect the mix of our business, with fewer closeouts and more non-guaranteed funding products, and adversely impact our results of operations.. 71. We may not be able to mitigate the reserve strain associated with Regulation XXX and AG38, potentially resulting in a negative impact on our capital position.. Regulation XXX requires insurers to establish additional statutory reserves for certain term life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees and for certain universal life policies with secondary guarantees. In addition, AG38 clarifies the application of Regulation XXX with respect to certain universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees. While we no longer issue these products, certain of our existing term insurance products and a number of our universal life insurance products are affected by Regulation XXX and AG38, respectively. The application of both Regulation XXX and AG38 involves numerous interpretations. At times, there may be differences of opinion between management and state insurance departments regarding the application of these and other actuarial standards. Such differences of opinion may lead to a state insurance regulator requiring greater reserves to support insurance liabilities than management estimated.. We have implemented reinsurance and capital management actions to mitigate the capital impact of Regulation XXX and AG38, including the use of LOCs and the implementation of other transactions that provide acceptable collateral to support the reinsurance of the liabilities to wholly owned reinsurance captives or to third-party reinsurers. These arrangements are subject to review and approval by state insurance regulators and review by rating agencies. State insurance regulators, the NAIC and other regulatory bodies are also investigating the use of wholly owned reinsurance captives to reinsure these liabilities and the NAIC has made recent advances in captives reform. During 2014, 2015, and 2016, the NAIC adopted captives proposals applicable to captives that assume Regulation XXX and AG38 reserves. See \"Our insurance businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation in the United States, enforcement actions and regulatory investigations may reduce profitability\" above and \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Statutory Capital and Risk-Based Capital of Principal Insurance Subsidiaries - Captive Reinsurance Subsidiaries.\" Rating agencies may include a portion of these LOCs or other collateral in their leverage calculations, which could increase their assessment of our leverage ratios and potentially impact our ratings. We cannot provide assurance that our ability to use captive reinsurance companies to achieve the desired benefit from financing statutory reserves will not be limited or that there will not be regulatory or rating agency challenges to the reinsurance and capital management actions we have taken to date or that acceptable collateral obtained through such transactions will continue to be available or available on a cost-effective basis.. The result of these potential challenges, as well as the inability to obtain acceptable collateral, could require us to increase statutory reserves, incur higher operating and/or tax costs.. Certain of the reserve financing facilities we have put in place will mature prior to the run off of the liabilities they support. As a result, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to continue to maintain collateral support related to our captive reinsurance subsidiaries or our Arizona captives. If we are unable to continue to maintain collateral support related to our captive reinsurance subsidiaries or our Arizona captives, we may be required to increase statutory reserves or incur higher operating and/or tax costs than we currently anticipate.. Changes in tax laws and interpretations of existing tax law could increase our tax costs, impact the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to make distributions to Voya Financial, Inc. or make our insurance, annuity and investment product less attractive to customers.. In addition to the balance sheet impact, we expect Tax Reform to have other financial and economic impacts on the Company. While the change in the federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% is expected to have a beneficial economic impact on the Company, there are a number of changes enacted in Tax Reform that could increase the Company's tax costs, including:. • Changes to the dividends received deduction (\"DRD\");. • Changes to the capitalization period and rates of DAC for tax purposes;. • Changes to the calculation of life insurance reserves for tax purposes; and. • Changes to the rules on deductibility of executive compensation.. We continue to evaluate the effect of Tax Reform on the Company, and the final impact may be materially more adverse from that discussed herein as a result of, among other things, future clarifications or guidance from the IRS, other agencies, or the courts. Moreover, U.S. states that stand to lose tax revenue as a consequence of Tax Reform may enact measures that increase our tax costs. In addition, there could be other changes in tax law, as well as changes in interpretation and enforcement of existing tax laws that could increase tax costs.. 72. As part of our participation in CAP, we have entered into agreements with the IRS to resolve issues related to: (1) the application of the Section 382 limitation, (2) whether certain derivative transactions qualify for hedge treatment, (3) the proper treatment of valid tax hedge gains and losses and (4) \"other than temporary impairment\" losses. These agreements may be superseded by future enacted laws, regulations or other guidance that increase our tax costs.. Tax Reform also resulted in a reduction in the combined statutory deferred tax assets of our insurance subsidiaries, reducing their combined RBC ratio. Future changes or clarifications in tax law could cause further reductions to the statutory deferred tax assets and RBC ratios of our insurance subsidiaries. A reduction in the statutory deferred tax assets or RBC ratios may impact the ability of the affected insurance subsidiaries to make distributions to us and consequently could negatively impact our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders and to service our debt.. Current U.S. federal income tax law permits tax-deferred accumulation of income earned under life insurance and annuity products, and permits exclusion from taxation of death benefits paid under life insurance contracts. Changes in tax laws that restrict these tax benefits could make some of our products less attractive to customers. Reductions in individual income tax rates or estate tax rates could also make some of our products less advantageous to customers. Changes in federal tax laws that reduce the amount an individual can contribute on a pre-tax basis to an employer-provided, tax-deferred product (either directly by reducing current limits or indirectly by changing the tax treatment of such contributions from exclusions to deductions) or changes that would limit an individual's aggregate amount of tax-deferred savings could make our retirement products less attractive to customers. In addition, any measures that may be enacted in U.S. states in response to Tax Reform, or otherwise, could make our products less attractive to our customers. Furthermore, as a result of Tax Reform's recent adoption and significant scope, its impact on our products, including their attractiveness relative to competitors, cannot yet be known and may be adverse, perhaps materially.. Risks Related to Our Holding Company Structure. As holding companies, Voya Financial, Inc. and Voya Holdings depend on the ability of their subsidiaries to transfer funds to them to meet their obligations.. Voya Financial, Inc. is the holding company for all our operations, and dividends, returns of capital and interest income on intercompany indebtedness from Voya Financial, Inc.'s subsidiaries are the principal sources of funds available to Voya Financial, Inc. to pay principal and interest on its outstanding indebtedness, to pay corporate operating expenses, to pay any stockholder dividends, to repurchase any stock, and to meet its other obligations. The subsidiaries of Voya Financial, Inc. are legally distinct from Voya Financial, Inc. and, except in the case of Voya Holdings Inc., which is the guarantor of certain of our outstanding indebtedness, have no obligation to pay amounts due on the debt of Voya Financial, Inc. or to make funds available to Voya Financial, Inc. for such payments. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or other distributions to Voya Financial, Inc. in the future will depend on their earnings, tax considerations, covenants contained in any financing or other agreements and applicable regulatory restrictions. In addition, such payments may be limited as a result of claims against our subsidiaries by their creditors, including suppliers, vendors, lessors and employees. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other distributions to Voya Financial, Inc. will further depend on their ability to meet applicable regulatory standards and receive regulatory approvals, as discussed below under \" - The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends and other distributions to Voya Financial, Inc. and Voya Holdings is further limited by state insurance laws, and our insurance subsidiaries may not generate sufficient statutory earnings or have sufficient statutory surplus to enable them to pay ordinary dividends.\". Voya Holdings is wholly owned by Voya Financial, Inc. and is also a holding company, and accordingly its ability to make payments under its guarantees of our indebtedness or on the debt for which it is the primary obligor is subject to restrictions and limitations similar to those applicable to Voya Financial, Inc. Neither Voya Financial, Inc., nor Voya Holdings, has significant sources of cash flows other than from our subsidiaries that do not guarantee such indebtedness.. If the ability of our insurance or non-insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions or payments to Voya Financial, Inc. and Voya Holdings is materially restricted by regulatory requirements, other cash needs, bankruptcy or insolvency, or our need to maintain the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, or is limited due to results of operations or other factors, we may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of equity or the sale of assets. However, there is no assurance that we would be able to raise cash by these means. This could materially and adversely affect the ability of Voya Financial, Inc. and Voya Holdings to pay their obligations.. 73. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends and other distributions to Voya Financial, Inc. and Voya Holdings Inc. is limited by state insurance laws, and our insurance subsidiaries may not generate sufficient statutory earnings or have sufficient statutory surplus to enable them to pay ordinary dividends.. The payment of dividends and other distributions to Voya Financial, Inc. and Voya Holdings Inc.by our insurance subsidiaries is regulated by state insurance laws and regulations.. The jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled impose certain restrictions on the ability to pay dividends to their respective parents. These restrictions are based, in part, on the prior year's statutory income and surplus. In general, dividends up to specified levels are considered ordinary and may be paid without prior regulatory approval. Dividends in larger amounts, or extraordinary dividends, are subject to approval by the insurance commissioner of the relevant state of domicile. Under the insurance laws applicable to our insurance subsidiaries domiciled in Connecticut, Iowa and Minnesota, an extraordinary dividend or distribution is defined as a dividend or distribution that, together with other dividends and distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of (1) 10% of the insurer's policyholder surplus as of the preceding December 31 or (2) the insurer's net gain from operations for the twelve-month period ended the preceding December 31, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting principles. Under Colorado insurance law, an extraordinary dividend or distribution is defined as a dividend or distribution that, together with other dividends and distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the lesser of (1) 10% of the insurer's policyholder surplus as of the preceding December 31 or (2) the insurer's net gain from operations for the twelve-month period ended the preceding December 31, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting principles. In addition, under the insurance laws applicable to our insurance subsidiaries domiciled in Connecticut, Iowa and Minnesota, no dividend or other distribution exceeding an amount equal to an insurance company's earned surplus may be paid without the domiciliary insurance regulator's prior approval (the \"positive earned surplus requirement\"). Under applicable domiciliary insurance regulations, our Principal Insurance Subsidiaries must deduct any distributions or dividends paid in the preceding twelve months in calculating dividend capacity. From time to time, the NAIC and various state insurance regulators have considered, and may in the future consider, proposals to further limit dividend payments that an insurance company may make without regulatory approval. More stringent restrictions on dividend payments may be adopted from time to time by jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, and such restrictions could have the effect, under certain circumstances, of significantly reducing dividends or other amounts payable to Voya Financial, Inc. or Voya Holdings by our insurance subsidiaries without prior approval by regulatory authorities. We may also choose to change the domicile of one or more of our insurance subsidiaries or captive insurance subsidiaries, in which case we would be subject to the restrictions imposed under the laws of that new domicile, which could be more restrictive than those to which we are currently subject. In addition, in the future, we may become subject to debt instruments or other agreements that limit the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions is also limited by our need to maintain the financial strength ratings assigned to such subsidiaries by the rating agencies. These ratings depend to a large extent on the capitalization levels of our insurance subsidiaries.. For a summary of ordinary dividends and extraordinary distributions paid by each of our Principal Insurance Subsidiaries to Voya Financial or Voya Holdings in 2016 and 2017, and a discussion of ordinary dividend capacity for 2018, see \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources-Restrictions on Dividends and Returns of Capital from Subsidiaries.\" Our Principal Insurance Subsidiaries domiciled in Colorado, Connecticut and Iowa each have ordinary dividend capacity for 2018. However, as a result of the extraordinary dividends it paid in 2015 and 2016, together with statutory losses incurred in connection with the recapture and cession to one of our Arizona captives of certain term life business in the fourth quarter of 2016, our Principal Insurance Subsidiary domiciled in Minnesota currently has negative earned surplus and therefore does not have capacity at this time to make ordinary dividend payments to Voya Holdings and cannot make an extraordinary dividend payment to Voya Holdings Inc. without domiciliary regulatory approval, which can be granted or withheld in the discretion of the regulator.. If any of our Principal Insurance Subsidiaries subject to the positive earned surplus requirement do not succeed in building up sufficient positive earned surplus to have ordinary dividend capacity in future years, such subsidiary would be unable to pay dividends or distributions to our holding companies absent prior approval of its domiciliary insurance regulator, which can be granted or withheld in the discretion of the regulator. In addition, if our Principal Insurance Subsidiaries generate capital in excess of our target combined estimated RBC ratio of 425% and our individual insurance company ordinary dividend limits in future years, then we may also seek extraordinary dividends or distributions. There can be no assurance that our Principal Insurance Subsidiaries will receive approval for extraordinary distribution payments in the future.. The payment of dividends by our captive reinsurance subsidiaries is regulated by their respective governing licensing orders and restrictions in their respective insurance securitization agreements. Generally, our captive reinsurance subsidiaries may not declare or pay dividends in any form to their parent companies other than in accordance with their respective insurance securitization transaction agreements and their respective governing licensing orders, and in no event may the dividends decrease the capital of. 74. the captive below the minimum capital requirement applicable to it, and, after giving effect to the dividends, the assets of the captive paying the dividend must be sufficient to satisfy its domiciliary insurance regulator that it can meet its obligations. Likewise, our Arizona captives may not declare or pay dividends in any form to us other than in accordance with their annual capital and dividend plans as approved by the ADOI, which include minimum capital requirements."
