[1] "Item 1A: Risk Factors. The following is a discussion of significant risk factors relevant to Grainger's business that could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The risk factors discussed in this section should be considered together with information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered the only risks to which the Company is exposed.. Weakness in the economy, market trends and other conditions affecting the profitability and financial stability of Grainger's customers could negatively impact Grainger's sales growth and results of operations.. Economic and industry trends affect Grainger's business environments. Grainger serves several industries in which the demand for its products and services is sensitive to the production activity, capital spending and demand for products and services of Grainger's customers. Many of these customers operate in markets that are subject to cyclical fluctuations resulting from market uncertainty, costs of goods sold, currency exchange rates, foreign competition, offshoring of production, oil and natural gas prices, geopolitical developments and a variety of other factors beyond Grainger's control. Any of these factors could cause customers to idle or close facilities, delay purchases, reduce production levels or experience reductions in the demand for their own products or services.. Any of these events could impair the ability of Grainger's customers to make full and timely payments or reduce the volume of products and services these customers purchase from Grainger and could cause increased pressure on Grainger's selling prices and terms of sale. Accordingly, a significant or prolonged slowdown in activity in the U.S., Canada or any other major world economy, or a segment of any such economy, could negatively impact Grainger's sales growth and results of operations.. The facilities maintenance industry is highly competitive, and changes in competition could result in decreased demand for Grainger's products and services.. There are several large competitors in the industry, although most of the market is served by small local and regional competitors. Grainger faces competition in all markets it serves, from manufacturers (including some of its own suppliers) that sell directly to certain segments of the market, wholesale distributors, catalog houses, retail enterprises and online businesses that compete with price transparency.. To remain competitive, the Company must be willing and able to respond to market pressures, including pricing, whether widely available or negotiated under a contract, delivery and services. These pressures, and the implementation, timing and results of our strategic pricing and other responses, could have a material effect on Grainger's sales and profitability. If the Company is unable to grow sales or reduce costs, among other actions, to wholly or partially offset the effect on profitability of our pricing actions, the Company's results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. The industry is also consolidating as customers are increasingly aware of the total costs of fulfillment and of the need to have consistent sources of supply at multiple locations. This consolidation could cause the industry to become more competitive as greater economies of scale are achieved by competitors, or as competitors with a new lower cost business models are able to operate with lower prices.. Changes in inflation may adversely affect gross margins.. Inflation impacts the costs at which Grainger can procure product and the ability to increase prices to customers over time. Prolonged periods of deflation could adversely affect the degree to which Grainger is able to increase sales through price increases.. Volatility in commodity prices may adversely affect gross margins.. Some of Grainger's products contain significant amounts of commodity-priced materials, such as steel, copper, petroleum derivatives or rare earth minerals, and are subject to price changes based upon fluctuations in the commodities market. Fluctuations in the price of fuel could affect transportation costs. Grainger's ability to pass on such increases in costs in a timely manner depends on market conditions. The inability to pass along cost increases could result in lower gross margins. In addition, higher prices could impact demand for these products, resulting in lower sales volumes.. 7. Unexpected product shortages could negatively impact customer relationships, resulting in an adverse impact on results of operations.. Grainger's competitive strengths include product selection and availability. Products are purchased from approximately  5,200 suppliers located in various countries around the world, not one of which accounted for more than 5% of total purchases. Historically, no significant difficulty has been encountered with respect to sources of supply; however, disruptions could occur due to factors beyond Grainger's control, including economic downturns, geopolitical unrest, port slowdowns, trade issues and other factors, any of which could adversely affect a supplier's ability to manufacture or deliver products. As Grainger continues to source lower cost products from Asia and other areas of the world, the risk for disruptions has increased due to the additional lead time required and distances involved. If Grainger was to experience difficulty in obtaining products, there could be a short-term adverse effect on results of operations and a longer-term adverse effect on customer relationships and Grainger's reputation. In addition, Grainger has strategic relationships with a number of vendors. In the event Grainger was unable to maintain those relations, there might be a loss of competitive pricing advantages which could, in turn, adversely affect results of operations.. Changes in customer or product mix could cause the gross margin percentage to decline.. From time to time, Grainger experiences changes in customer and product mix that affect gross margin. Changes in customer and product mix result primarily from business acquisitions, changes in customer demand, customer acquisitions, selling and marketing activities and competition. If rapid growth with larger, lower margin customers continues, Grainger will face pressure to maintain current gross margins, as these customers receive more discounted pricing due to their higher sales volume. There can be no assurance that Grainger will be able to maintain historical gross margins in the future.. Disruptions in Grainger's supply chain could result in an adverse impact on results of operations.. A disruption within Grainger's logistics or supply chain network, including damage, destruction, extreme weather and other events, which could cause one or more of Grainger's distribution centers to become non-operational, could adversely affect Grainger's ability to obtain or deliver inventory in a timely manner, impair Grainger's ability to meet customer demand for products and result in lost sales or damage to Grainger's reputation. Grainger's ability to provide same-day shipping and next-day delivery is an integral component of Grainger's business strategy and any such disruption could adversely impact results of operations.. Interruptions in the proper functioning of information systems could disrupt operations and cause unanticipated increases in costs and/or decreases in revenues.. The proper functioning of Grainger's information systems is critical to the successful operation of its business. Grainger continues to invest in software, hardware and network infrastructures in order to effectively manage its information systems. Although Grainger's information systems are protected with robust backup and security systems, including physical and software safeguards and remote processing capabilities, information systems are still vulnerable to natural disasters, power losses, computer viruses, telecommunication failures and other problems. If critical information systems fail or otherwise become unavailable, among other things, Grainger's ability to process orders, maintain proper levels of inventories, collect accounts receivable and disburse funds could be adversely affected. Any such interruption of Grainger's information systems could also subject Grainger to additional costs.. Breaches of information systems security could damage Grainger's reputation, disrupt operations, increase costs and/or decrease revenues.. Through Grainger's sales and eCommerce channels, Grainger collects and stores personally identifiable, confidential, proprietary and other information from customers so that they may, among other things, purchase products or services, enroll in promotional programs, register on Grainger's websites or otherwise communicate or interact with the Company. Moreover, Grainger's operations routinely involve receiving, storing, processing and transmitting sensitive information pertaining to its business, customers, suppliers and employees, and other sensitive matters.. While Grainger has instituted safeguards for the protection of such information, during the normal course of business, Grainger has experienced and expects to continue to experience attempts to breach the Company's information systems, and Grainger may be unable to protect sensitive data and/or the integrity of the Company's information systems. A cybersecurity incident could be caused by malicious outsiders using sophisticated methods to circumvent firewalls, encryption and other security defenses. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to. 8. sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until they are launched against a target, Grainger may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures.. Moreover, from time to time, Grainger may share information with vendors and other third parties that assist with certain aspects of the business. While Grainger requires assurances that these vendors and other parties will protect confidential information, there is a risk that the confidentiality of data held or accessed by them may be compromised. If successful, those attempting to penetrate Grainger's or its vendors' information systems may misappropriate personally identifiable, credit card, confidential, proprietary or other sensitive customer, supplier, employee or business information.. In addition, a Grainger employee, contractor or other third party with whom Grainger does business may attempt to circumvent security measures in order to obtain such information or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. Further, Grainger's systems are integrated with customer systems in certain cases, and a breach of the Company's information systems could be used to gain illicit access to customer systems and information.. Loss of customer, supplier, employee or other business information could disrupt operations, damage Grainger's reputation and expose Grainger to claims from customers, suppliers, financial institutions, regulators, payment card associations, employees and others, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Grainger, its financial condition and results of operations.. Fluctuations in foreign currency have an effect on reported results of operations.. Grainger's exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency rates results primarily from the translation exposure associated with the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as from transaction exposure associated with transactions in currencies other than an entity's functional currency. While the Consolidated Financial Statements are reported in U.S. dollars, the financial statements of Grainger's subsidiaries outside the U.S. are prepared using the local currency as the functional currency and translated into U.S. dollars. In addition, Grainger is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to the U.S. dollar relative to the local currencies of Grainger's international subsidiaries, primarily the Canadian dollar, euro, pound sterling, Mexican peso, renminbi and yen, arising from transactions in the normal course of business, such as sales and loans to wholly owned subsidiaries, sales to third-party customers, purchases from suppliers and bank loans and lines of credit denominated in foreign currencies. Grainger also has foreign currency exposure to the extent receipts and expenditures are not denominated in the subsidiary's functional currency and that could have an impact on sales, costs and cash flows. These fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect Grainger's results of operations and impact reported net sales and net earnings.. Changes in Grainger's credit ratings and outlook may reduce access to capital and increase borrowing costs.. Grainger's credit ratings are based on a number of factors, including Grainger's financial strength and factors outside of Grainger's control, such as conditions affecting Grainger's industry generally or the introduction of new rating practices and methodologies. Grainger cannot provide assurances that Grainger's current credit ratings will remain in effect or that the ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies. If rating agencies lower, suspend or withdraw the ratings, the market price or marketability of Grainger's securities may be adversely affected. In addition, any change in ratings could make it more difficult for Grainger to raise capital on acceptable terms, impact the ability to obtain adequate financing and result in higher interest costs for Grainger's existing credit facilities or on future financings.. Acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures and other business combination transactions involve a number of inherent risks, any of which could result in the benefits anticipated not being realized and could have an adverse effect on results of operations.. Acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures and other business combination transactions, both foreign and domestic, involve various inherent risks, such as uncertainties in assessing value, strengths, weaknesses, liabilities and potential profitability. There is also risk relating to Grainger's ability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from the transactions. Additionally, problems could arise from the integration of acquired businesses, including unanticipated changes in the business or industry or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions underlying the acquisition. Any one or more of these factors could cause Grainger to not realize the benefits anticipated or have a negative impact on the fair value of the reporting units. Accordingly, goodwill and intangible assets recorded as a result of acquisitions could become impaired.. 9. In order to compete, Grainger must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and the failure to do so could have an adverse effect on results of operations.. In order to compete and have continued growth, Grainger must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and support positions. Grainger competes to hire employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. Grainger's results of operations could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs.. Grainger's continued success is substantially dependent on positive perceptions of Grainger's reputation.. One of the reasons why customers choose to do business with Grainger and why employees choose Grainger as a place of employment is the reputation that Grainger has built over many years. To be successful in the future, Grainger must continue to preserve, grow and leverage the value of Grainger's brand. Reputational value is based in large part on perceptions of subjective qualities. Even an isolated incident, or the aggregate effect of individually insignificant incidents, can erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in adverse publicity, governmental investigations or litigation, and as a result, could tarnish Grainger's brand and lead to adverse effects on Grainger's business.. Grainger is subject to various domestic and foreign laws, regulations and standards. Failure to comply or unforeseen developments in related contingencies such as litigation could adversely affect Grainger's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Grainger's business is subject to a wide array of laws, regulations and standards in every domestic and foreign jurisdiction where it operates, including advertising and marketing regulations, anti-bribery and corruption laws, anti-competition regulations, data protection (including payment card industry data security standards), data privacy (including in the U.S. and the European Union, which has traditionally imposed strict obligations under data privacy laws and regulations that vary from country to country) and cybersecurity requirements (including protection of information and incident responses), environmental protection laws, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, government business regulations applicable to Grainger as a government contractor selling to federal, state and local government entities, health and safety laws, import and export requirements, intellectual property laws, labor laws, product compliance laws, supplier regulations regarding the sources of supplies or products, tax laws (including as to U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), unclaimed property laws and laws, regulations and standards applicable to other commercial matters. Moreover, Grainger is also subject to audits and inquiries in the normal course of business.. Failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations and standards could result in civil, criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties as well as potential damage to the Company's reputation. Changes in these laws, regulations and standards, or in their interpretation, could increase the cost of doing business, including, among other factors, as a result of increased investments in technology and the development of new operational processes. Furthermore, while Grainger has implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, regulations and standards, there can be no assurance that employees, contractors or agents will not violate such laws, regulations and standards or Grainger's policies. Any such failure to comply or violation could individually or in the aggregate materially adversely affect Grainger's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Grainger also is, and from time to time may become, party to a number of legal proceedings incidental to Grainger's business involving alleged damages or injuries arising out of the use of Grainger's products and services or violations of these laws, regulations or standards. The defense of these proceedings may require significant expenses and divert management's time and attention, and Grainger may be required to pay damages that could individually or in the aggregate materially adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, any insurance or indemnification rights that Grainger may have with respect to such matters may be insufficient or unavailable to protect the Company against potential loss exposures.. Tax changes could affect Grainger's effective tax rate and future profitability.. Grainger's future results could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of changes in Grainger's overall profitability and changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax legislation, the results of the examination of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessment of the Company's tax exposures.. 10"
