[1] "ITEM 1A—RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report before investing in our securities. Realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Business, Strategy and Operations. Our business is highly cyclical, which has had, and could have further, adverse effects on our sales and results of operations.. The truck trailer manufacturing industry historically has been and is expected to continue to be cyclical, as well as affected by overall economic conditions. Customers historically have replaced trailers in cycles that run from five to 12 years, depending on service and trailer type. Poor economic conditions can adversely affect demand for new trailers and has led to an overall aging of trailer fleets beyond a typical replacement cycle. Customers’ buying patterns can also be influenced by regulatory changes, such as federal hours-of-service rules as well as overall truck safety and federal emissions standards.. The steps we have taken to diversify our product offerings through the implementation of our strategic plan do not insulate us from this cyclicality. During downturns, we operate with a lower level of backlog and have had to temporarily slow down or halt production at some or all of our facilities, including extending normal shut down periods and reducing salaried headcount levels. An economic downturn may reduce, and in the past has reduced, demand for trailers and our other products, resulting in lower sales volumes, lower prices and decreased profits or losses.. Demand for our products is sensitive to economic conditions over which we have no control and that may adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. Demand for our products is sensitive to changes in economic conditions, including changes related to unemployment, consumer confidence, consumer income, new housing starts, industrial production, government regulations, and the availability of financing and interest rates. The status of these economic conditions periodically have an adverse effect on truck freight and the demand for and the pricing of our products, and have also resulted in, and could in the future result in, the inability of customers to meet their contractual terms or payment obligations, which could cause our operating revenues and profits to decline.. 17. Global economic weakness could negatively impact our operations and financial performance.. While the trailer industry has recently experienced a period of strong demand levels, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be profitable in future periods or that we will be able to sustain or increase profitability in the future. Increasing our profitability will depend on several factors, including, our ability to increase our overall trailer volumes, improve our gross margins, gain continued momentum on our product diversification efforts and manage our expenses. If we are unable to sustain profitability in the future, we may not be able to meet our payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt agreements.. We continue to be reliant on the credit, housing and construction-related markets in the U.S. The same general economic concerns faced by us are also faced by our customers. We believe that some of our customers are highly leveraged and have limited access to capital, and their continued existence may be reliant on liquidity from global credit markets and other sources of external financing. Lack of liquidity by our customers could impact our ability to collect amounts owed to us. While we have taken steps to address these concerns through the implementation of our strategic plan, we are not immune to the pressures being faced by our industry or the global economy, and our results of operations may decline.. We may not be able to execute on our long-term strategic plan and growth initiatives, or meet our long-term financial goals.. Our long-term strategic plan is intended to generate long-term value for our shareholders while delivering profitable growth through all our business segments.  The long-term financial goals that we expect to achieve as a result of our long-term strategic plan and organic growth initiatives are based on certain assumptions, which may prove to be incorrect. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to fully execute on our strategic plan or growth initiatives, which are subject to a variety of risks, including, our ability to: diversify the product offerings of our non-trailer businesses; leverage acquired businesses and assets to grow sales with our existing products; design and develop new products to meet the needs of our customers; increase the pricing of our products and services to offset cost increases and expand gross margins; and execute potential future acquisitions, mergers, and other business development opportunities. If we are unable to successfully execute on our strategic plan, we may experience increased competition, adverse financial consequences and a decrease in the value of our stock. Additionally, our management’s attention to the implementation of the strategic plan, which includes our efforts at diversification, may distract them from implementing our core business which may also have adverse financial consequences.. Our diversification strategy may not be successfully executed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition to our commitment to long-term profitable growth within each of our existing reporting segments, our strategic initiatives include a focus on diversification, both organic and strategic, to continue to transform Wabash into a more diversified industrial manufacturer with a higher growth and margin profile and successfully deliver a greater value to our shareholders. Organically, our focus is on profitably growing and diversifying our operations by leveraging our existing assets, capabilities, and technology into higher margin products and markets and thereby providing value-added customer solutions. Strategically, we continue to focus on becoming a more diversified industrial manufacturer, broadening the product portfolio we offer, the customers and end markets we serve and our geographic reach.. Some of our existing diversification efforts are in the early growth stages and future success is largely dependent on continued customer adoption of our new product solutions and general expansion of our customer base and distribution channels.  We also expect future acquisitions to form a key component of strategic diversification. Diversification through acquisitions involve identifying and executing on transactions and managing successfully the integration and growth of acquired companies and products, all of which involve significant resources and risk of failure. Diversification efforts put a strain on our administrative, operational and financial resources and make the determination of optimal resource allocation difficult. If our efforts to diversify the business organically and/or strategically do not meet the expectations we have, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 18. We have a limited number of suppliers of raw materials and components; increases in the price of raw materials or the inability to obtain raw materials could adversely affect our results of operations.. We currently rely on a limited number of suppliers for certain key components and raw materials in the manufacturing of our products, such as tires, landing gear, axles, suspensions, specialty steel coil, stainless steel, plastic, aluminum and lumber. From time to time, there have been and may in the future be shortages of supplies of raw materials or components, or our suppliers may place us on allocation, which would have an adverse impact on our ability to meet demand for our products. Shortages and allocations may result in inefficient operations and a build-up of inventory, which can negatively affect our working capital position. In addition, price volatility in commodities we purchase that impacts the pricing of raw materials could have negative impacts on our operating margins. The loss of any of our suppliers or their inability to meet our price, quality, quantity and delivery requirements could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations.. Volatility in the supply of vehicle chassis and other vehicle components could adversely affect our Final Mile Products business.. With the exception of some specialty vehicle products, we generally do not purchase vehicle chassis for our inventory and accept shipments of vehicle chassis owned by dealers or end-users for the purpose of installing and/or manufacturing our specialized truck bodies on such chassis. Historically, General Motors Corporation (“GM”) and Ford Motor Company (“Ford”) have been the primary suppliers of chassis. In the event of a disruption in supply from one major supplier, we would attempt to use another major supplier, but there can be no assurance that this attempt would be successful. Nevertheless, in the event of chassis supply disruptions, there could be unforeseen consequences that may have a significant adverse effect on our truck body operations.. We also face risks relative to finance and storage charges for maintaining an excess supply of chassis from GM and Ford. Under the converter chassis pool agreements, if a chassis is not delivered to a customer within a specified time frame, we are required to pay finance or storage charges on such chassis.. A change in our customer relationships or in the financial condition of our customers has had, and could have further, adverse effects on our business.. We have longstanding relationships with a number of large customers to whom we supply our products. We do not have long-term agreements with these customers. Our success is dependent, to a significant extent, upon the continued strength of these relationships and the growth of our core customers. We often are unable to predict the level of demand for our products from these customers, or the timing of their orders. In addition, the same economic conditions that adversely affect us also often adversely affect our customers. Furthermore, we are subject to a concentration of risk as the five largest customers together accounted for approximately 24% of our aggregate net sales in 2017. While no customers over the previous three years have individually accounted for greater than 10% of our aggregate net sales, we have historically had individual customers who have accounted for greater than 10% of our aggregate net sales. The loss of a significant customer or unexpected delays in product purchases could further adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Significant competition in the industries in which we operate may result in our competitors offering new or better products and services or lower prices, which could result in a loss of customers and a decrease in our revenues.. The industries in which we participate are highly competitive. We compete with other manufacturers of varying sizes, some of which have substantial financial resources. Manufacturers compete primarily on the quality of their products, customer relationships, service availability and price. Barriers to entry in the standard trailer and truck body manufacturing industry are low. As a result, it is possible that additional competitors could enter the market at any time. In the recent past, manufacturing over-capacity and high leverage of some of our competitors, along with bankruptcies and financial stresses that affected the industry, contributed to significant pricing pressures.. If we are unable to successfully compete with other manufacturers, we could lose customers and our revenues may decline. In addition, competitive pressures in the industry may affect the market prices of our new and used equipment, which, in turn, may adversely affect our sales margins and results of operations.. 19. Our Final Mile Products segment competes in the highly competitive specialized vehicle industry which may impact its financial results.. The competitive nature of the specialized vehicle industry creates a number of challenges for our Final Mile Products segment. Important factors include product pricing, quality of product, lead times, geographic proximity to customers, and the ability to manufacture a product customized to customer specifications. Specialized vehicles are produced by a number of smaller, regional companies which create product pricing pressures that could adversely impact our profits. Chassis manufacturers have not generally shown an interest in manufacturing specialized vehicles, including truck bodies, because such manufacturers’ highly-automated assembly line operations do not lend themselves to the efficient production of a wide variety of highly-specialized vehicles with various options and equipment.. Our technology and products may not achieve market acceptance or competing products could gain market share, which could adversely affect our competitive position.. We continue to optimize and expand our product offerings to meet our customer needs through our established brands, such as DuraPlate®, DuraPlateHD®, DuraPlate® XD-35®, DuraPlate AeroSkirt®, ArcticLite®, Transcraft®, Benson®, Walker Transport, Brenner® Tank, Garsite, Progress Tank, Bulk Tank International, and Extract Technology®, Supreme, Iner-City®, Spartan, and Kold King®. While we target product development to meet customer needs, there is no assurance that our product development efforts will be embraced and that we will meet our strategic goals, including sales projections. Companies in the truck transportation industry, a very fluid industry in which our customers primarily operate, make frequent changes to maximize their operations and profits.. We have seen a number of our competitors follow our leadership in the development and use of composite sidewalls that bring them into direct competition with our DuraPlateâ products. Our product development is focused on maintaining our leadership for these products but competitive pressures may erode our market share or margins. We hold patents on various components and techniques utilized in our manufacturing of transportation equipment and engineered products with expiration dates ranging from 2018 to 2036. We continue to take steps to protect our proprietary rights in our products and the processes used to produce them. However, the steps we have taken may not be sufficient or may not be enforced by a court of law. If we are unable to protect our intellectual properties, other parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain or use our products or technology. If competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to effectively compete could be harmed. In addition, litigation related to intellectual property could result in substantial costs and efforts which may not result in a successful outcome.. Our backlog may not be indicative of the level of our future revenues.. Our backlog represents future production for which we have written orders from our customers that can be produced in the next 18 months. Orders that comprise our backlog may be subject to changes in quantities, delivery, specifications and terms, or cancellation. Our reported backlog may not be converted to revenue in any particular period and actual revenue from such orders may not equal our backlog. Therefore, our backlog may not be indicative of the level of our future revenues.. International operations are subject to increased risks, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our ability to manage our business and conduct operations internationally requires considerable management attention and resources and is subject to a number of risks, including the following:. •challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences and by doing business with foreign agencies and governments;. •longer payment cycles in some countries;. •uncertainty regarding liability for services and content;. •credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud;. •currency exchange rate fluctuations and our ability to manage these fluctuations;. •foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned outside the U.S.;. •import and export requirements that may prevent us from shipping products or providing services to a particular market and may increase our operating costs;. 20. •potentially adverse tax consequences;. •higher costs associated with doing business internationally;. •different expectations regarding working hours, work culture and work-related benefits; and. •different employee/employer relationships and the existence of workers’ councils and labor unions.. Compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to international operations may increase our cost of doing business and could expose us or our employees to fines, penalties and other liabilities. These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include import and export requirements, content requirements, trade restrictions, tax laws, environmental laws and regulations, sanctions, internal and disclosure control rules, data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, and U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and substantially equivalent local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials and/or other foreign persons. Although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our officers, employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies. Any violation of the laws and regulations that apply to our operations and properties could result in, among other consequences, fines, environmental and other liabilities, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services to one or more countries and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our efforts to diversify our business, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results.. Disruption of our manufacturing operations would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We manufacture our van trailer products at two facilities in Lafayette, Indiana, a flatbed trailer facility in Cadiz, Kentucky, a hardwood floor facility in Harrison, Arkansas, six liquid-transportation systems facilities in New Lisbon, Wisconsin; Fond du Lac, Wisconsin; Kansas City, Kansas; Portland, Oregon; and Queretaro, Mexico, three engineered products facilities in New Lisbon, Wisconsin; Elroy, Wisconsin; Huddersfield, United Kingdom, seven truck body facilities in Goshen, IN; Ligonier, IN; Cleburne, TX; Griffin, GA; Jonestown, PA; Moreno Valley, CA; and Lafayette, IN, and produce Composite products at facilities in Lafayette, Indiana and Frankfort, Indiana. An unexpected disruption in our production at any of these facilities for any length of time would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The inability to attract and retain key personnel could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key associates. Our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including manufacturing personnel, sales professionals and engineers. The unexpected loss of services of any of our key personnel or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on the operation of our business.. We rely significantly on information technology to support our operations and if we are unable to protect against service interruptions or security breaches, our business could be adversely impacted.. We depend on a number of information technologies to integrate departments and functions, to enhance the ability to service customers, to improve our control environment and to manage our cost reduction initiatives. We have put in place a number of systems, processes, and practices designed to protect against the failure of our systems, as well as the misappropriation, exposure or corruption of the information stored thereon. Unintentional service disruptions or intentional actions such as intellectual property theft, cyber-attacks, unauthorized access or malicious software, may lead to such misappropriation, exposure or corruption if our protective measures prove to be inadequate. Any issues involving these critical business applications and infrastructure may adversely impact our ability to manage operations and the customers we serve. We could also encounter violations of applicable law or reputational damage from the disclosure of confidential business, customer, or employee information or the failure to protect the privacy rights of our employees in their personal identifying information. In addition, the disclosure of non-public information could lead to the loss of our intellectual property and diminished competitive advantages. Should any of the foregoing events occur, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future.. 21. We are subject to extensive governmental laws and regulations, and our costs related to compliance with, or our failure to comply with, existing or future laws and regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. The length, height, width, maximum weight capacity and other specifications of truck and tank trailers are regulated by individual states. The federal government also regulates certain trailer safety features, such as lamps, reflective devices, tires, air-brake systems and rear-impact guards. In addition, most tank trailers we manufacture have specific federal regulations and restrictions that dictate tank design, material type and thickness. Changes or anticipation of changes in these regulations can have a material impact on our financial results, as our customers may defer purchasing decisions and we may have to re-engineer products. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the transportation, storage, presence, use, disposal and handling of hazardous materials, discharge of storm water and underground fuel storage tanks, and we may be subject to liability associated with operations of prior owners of acquired property. In addition, we are subject to laws and regulations relating to the employment of our employees and labor-related practices.. If we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations in the future, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our costs of complying with these or any other current or future regulations may be material. In addition, if we fail to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, we may be subject to governmental or judicial fines or sanctions.. Regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses and otherwise adversely affect our business and results of operations.. As mandated by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. These requirements require ongoing due diligence efforts and disclosure requirements. We may incur significant costs to determine the source of any such minerals used in our products. We may also incur costs with respect to potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of our diligence activities. Further, the implementation of these rules and their effect on customer and/or supplier behavior could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products, as the number of suppliers offering conflict-free minerals could be limited. We may incur additional costs or face regulatory scrutiny if we determine that some of our products contain materials not determined to be conflict-free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of all conflict minerals used in our products. Accordingly, compliance with these rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition.. Product liability and other legal claims could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. As a manufacturer of products widely used in commerce, we are subject to product liability claims and litigation, as well as warranty claims. From time to time claims may involve material amounts and novel legal theories, and any insurance we carry may not provide adequate coverage to insulate us from material liabilities for these claims.. In addition to product liability claims, we are subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, such as workers' compensation claims, OSHA investigations, employment disputes and customer and supplier disputes arising out of the conduct of our business. Litigation may result in substantial costs and may divert management's attention and resources from the operation of our business, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. 22. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill and other long-lived intangible assets could negatively affect our operating results.. We have a substantial amount of goodwill and purchased intangible assets on our balance sheet as a result of acquisitions. At December 31, 2017, approximately 59% of these long-lived intangible assets were concentrated in our Final Mile Products segment, 39% were concentrated in our Diversified Products segment, and 2% were concentrated in our Commercial Trailer Products segment. The carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of an acquired business in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. The carrying value of other long-lived intangible assets represents the fair value of trademarks and trade names, customer relationships and technology as of the acquisition date, net of accumulated amortization. Under generally accepted accounting principles, goodwill is required to be reviewed for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if potential interim indicators exist that could result in impairment, and other long-lived intangible assets require review for impairment only when indicators exist. If any business conditions or other factors cause profitability or cash flows to significantly decline, we may be required to record a non-cash impairment charge, which could adversely affect our operating results. Events and conditions that could result in impairment include a prolonged period of global economic weakness, a decline in economic conditions or a slow, weak economic recovery, sustained declines in the price of our common stock, adverse changes in the regulatory environment, adverse changes in the market share of our products, adverse changes in interest rates, or other factors leading to reductions in the long-term sales or profitability that we expect.. Our ability to fund operations and pay dividends is limited by our operational results, cash on hand, and available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility.. Our ability to fund our working capital needs and capital expenditures, and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, is limited by the net cash provided by operations, cash on hand and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Declines in net cash provided by operations, increases in working capital requirements necessitated by an increased demand for our products and services, decreases in the availability under the revolving credit facility or changes in the credit our suppliers provide to us, could rapidly exhaust our liquidity.. We recently reinstituted a policy of paying regular quarterly dividends on our common stock, but there is no assurance that we will have the ability to continue a regular quarterly dividend.. In December 2016, our Board of Directors approved the reinstatement of a dividend program under which we will pay regular quarterly cash dividends to holders of our common stock. Prior to 2017, no dividends had been paid since the third quarter of 2008. Our ability to pay dividends, and our Board of Directors’ determination to maintain our current dividend policy, will depend on numerous factors, including:. ·the state of our business, competition, and changes in our industry;. ·changes in the factors, assumptions, and other considerations made by our Board of Directors in reviewing and revising our dividend policy;. ·our future results of operations, financial condition, liquidity needs, and capital resources; and. ·our various expected cash needs, including cash interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, capital expenditures, the purchase price of acquisitions, and taxes.. Each of the factors listed above could negatively affect our ability to pay dividends in accordance with our dividend policy or at all. In addition, the Board may elect to suspend or alter the current dividend policy at any time.. 23. Changes to U.S. or foreign tax laws could affect our effective tax rate and our future profitability.. Changes in tax legislation could significantly impact our overall profitability, the provisions for income taxes, the amount of taxes payable and our deferred tax asset and liability balances. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”) was signed into law. The Act contains numerous new and changed provisions related to the U.S. federal taxation of domestic and foreign corporate operations. Although most of these provisions went into effect starting January 1, 2018 for calendar year corporate taxpayers, companies are still required to record the income tax accounting effects within the financial statements in the period of enactment. As such, management has included the estimated effects of remeasuring deferred taxes for the new U.S. federal income tax rate of 21% going into effect in 2018, as well as assessed our ability to realize deferred income tax assets in the future under the new rules. At December 31, 2017, we have not completed our accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the Act, including with respect to the effects on our existing deferred tax balances. We will continue to monitor further regulatory guidance issued by the Department of Treasury and Internal Revenue Service with regard to new provisions under the Act, and make adjustments accordingly to these estimates over the one year measurement period as outlined under Staff Accounting Bulletin 118. However, the final impact of the Act may differ, possibly materially, from our current estimates.. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations thereunder.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $558.5 million of total indebtedness, and approximately $169.6 million of additional borrowings were available and undrawn under the Credit Agreement (as defined below). We also have other contractual obligations and currently pay a regular quarterly dividend of approximately $0.075 per share, or approximately $4.7 million in the aggregate per quarter.. Our debt level could have significant consequences on future operations. For example, it could:. ·negatively affect our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt;. ·increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. ·limit our ability to fund future capital expenditures and working capital, to engage in future acquisitions or development activities, or to otherwise realize the value of our assets and opportunities fully because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments of interest and principal or to comply with any restrictive terms of our debt;. ·limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. ·impair our ability to obtain additional financing or to refinance our indebtedness in the future;. ·place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have proportionately less debt; and. ·impact our ability to continue to fund a regular quarterly dividend.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to fund our day-to-day operations or to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, and other cash requirements, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures or to sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, such alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. The indenture governing the Senior Notes, the Credit Agreement, and Term Loan Credit Agreement (as defined below) restrict (a) our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from any such dispositions and (b) the Company’s and our subsidiaries’ ability to raise debt or certain equity capital to be used to repay the our indebtedness when it becomes due. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due.. 24. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our indebtedness.. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, it will be in default and, as a result, holders of Senior Notes could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under the Credit Agreement and Term Loan Credit Agreement could terminate their commitments to loan money, our secured lenders could foreclose against the assets securing such borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. Despite current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks described above.. We and our subsidiaries have incurred substantial indebtedness in connection with the Supreme acquisition and may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the indenture governing the Senior Notes, the Credit Agreement, and Term Loan Credit Agreement contain, restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are and will be subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify.. Provisions of the Convertible Notes and the Senior Notes could discourage a potential future acquisition of us by a third party.. Certain provisions of the Convertible Notes and the Senior Notes (each as defined below) could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change, holders of the Convertible Notes or the Senior Notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their Convertible Notes or Senior Notes, as applicable, or any portion of the principal amount of such Convertible Notes or the Senior Notes, as applicable. We also may be required to issue additional shares upon conversion in the event of certain corporate transactions. In addition, the indentures governing the Convertible Notes and the Senior Notes prohibit us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the Convertible Notes and the Senior Notes. These and other provisions of the Convertible Notes and the Senior Notes could prevent or deter a third party from acquiring us even where the acquisition could be beneficial to our stockholders.. Our Term Loan Credit Agreement, Senior Notes indenture, and Revolving Credit Facility contain restrictive covenants that, if breached, could limit our financial and operating flexibility and subject us to other risks.. Our Term Loan Credit Agreement, Senior Notes indenture, and revolving credit facility include customary covenants limiting our ability to, among other things, pay cash dividends, incur debt or liens, redeem or repurchase stock, enter into transactions with affiliates, merge, dissolve, repay subordinated indebtedness, make investments and dispose of assets. As required under our Credit Agreement, we are required to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of not less than 1.1 to 1.0 as of the end of any period of 12 fiscal months when excess availability under the facility is less than 10% of the total revolving commitment.. If availability under the Credit Agreement is less than 12.5% of the total revolving commitment or if there exists an event of default, amounts in any of the Borrowers’ and the Revolver Guarantors’ deposit accounts (other than certain excluded accounts) will be transferred daily into a blocked account held by the Revolver Agent and applied to reduce the outstanding amounts under the facility.. As of December 31, 2017, we believe we are in compliance with the provisions of our Term Loan Credit Agreement, Senior Notes indenture, and our revolving credit facility. Our ability to comply with the various terms and conditions in the future may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions.. 25. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price for our common stock.. In the future, we may sell additional shares of our common stock to raise capital. In addition, a substantial number of shares of our common stock are reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options and upon conversion of the Convertible Notes. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. The issuance and sale of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities.. Our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, price and trading volume volatility.. The trading price and volume of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to large fluctuations. The market price and volume of our common stock may increase or decrease in response to a number of events and factors, including:. ·trends in our industry and the markets in which we operate;. ·changes in the market price of the products we sell;. ·the introduction of new technologies or products by us or by our competitors;. ·changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors;. ·operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors;. ·announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, financings or capital commitments;. ·changes in laws and regulations;. ·general economic and competitive conditions; and. ·changes in key management personnel.. This volatility may adversely affect the prices of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. To the extent that the price of our common stock declines, our ability to raise funds through the issuance of equity or otherwise use our common stock as consideration will be reduced. These factors may limit our ability to implement our operating and growth plans.. Also, shareholders may from time to time engage in proxy solicitations, advance shareholder proposals or otherwise attempt to effect changes or acquire control over the Company. Such shareholder campaigns could disrupt the Company’s operations and divert the attention of the Company’s Board of Directors and senior management and employees from the pursuit of business strategies and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Related to the Supreme Acquisition. It may be difficult to integrate the business of Supreme into our current business.. If we experience greater than anticipated costs to integrate Supreme into our existing operations or are not able to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, including cost savings and other synergies, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. In addition, it is possible that the ongoing integration process could result in the loss of key employees, errors or delays in systems implementation, the disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Integration efforts also may divert management attention and resources. These integration matters may have an adverse effect on us, particularly during any transition period. In addition, although Supreme is subject to many of the same risks and uncertainties that we face in our business, the acquisition also involves our entering into or significantly expanding our existing presence in new product areas, markets and industries, which presents risks resulting from our relative inexperience in these new areas. We face the risk that we will not be successful with these products or in these new markets.. 26. In addition, uncertainty about the effect of the acquisition on Supreme’s customers, employees or suppliers may have an adverse effect on Supreme. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel through the transition and into the future, and could cause disruptions in its relationships with customers, suppliers and other parties with which it deals.. We also expect that integration-related issues will place a significant burden on our and Supreme’s management, employees and internal resources, which could otherwise have been devoted to other business opportunities and improvements.. We have made certain assumptions relating to the Supreme acquisition that may prove to be materially inaccurate.. We have made certain assumptions relating to the Supreme acquisition which may prove to be inaccurate, including as a result of the failure to realize the expected benefits of the acquisition, higher than expected transaction and integration costs and unknown liabilities, as well as general economic and business conditions that adversely affect the combined company following the acquisition. These assumptions relate to numerous matters, including:. ·our assessments of the asset quality and value of Supreme and its assets;. ·our projections of Supreme’s business and its future financial performance;. ·our ability to realize synergies related to supply chain optimization, commercialization and distribution of new and existing products, back office and administrative consolidation, and further implementation of manufacturing best practices;. ·costs to comply with, and liabilities related to, laws and regulations applicable to Supreme, including environmental laws and regulations;. ·our ability to maintain, develop and deepen relationships with Supreme’s customers;. ·our belief that the Final Mile Products segment served by Supreme will grow substantially in the future and tends to be less cyclical than the van and platform trailer markets historically served by Wabash; and. ·other financial and strategic risks of operating the acquired business.. If one or more of these assumptions are incorrect, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, and operating results, and the perceived benefits from the acquisition may not be realized."
