[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the U.S. and globally.. Strategic Risks. General or macro-economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may materially adversely affect our financial performance.. General economic conditions and other economic factors, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance.  Higher interest rates, lower or higher prices of petroleum products, including crude oil, natural gas, gasoline, and diesel fuel, higher costs for electricity and other energy, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, increased costs of essential services, such as medical care and utilities, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates, imposition of new taxes or other changes in tax laws, changes in healthcare laws, other regulatory changes, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors in the U.S. or in any of the other markets in which we operate could adversely affect consumer demand for the products we sell in the U.S. or such other markets, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods, adversely affect our net sales and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns of inventory, or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results.. In addition, the economic factors listed above, any other economic factors or circumstances resulting in higher transportation, labor, insurance or healthcare costs or commodity prices, and other economic factors in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses and otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results.. The economic factors that affect our operations may also adversely affect the operations of our suppliers, which can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale.. We face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators (whether through physical retail, digital retail or the integration of both), which could materially adversely affect our financial performance.. Each of our segments competes for customers, employees, store and club sites, digital prominence, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional, national and global physical and digital retailers, wholesale club operators and retail intermediaries.. Our Walmart U.S. segment competes with both physical retailers operating discount, department, retail and wholesale grocers, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, and digital retailers, as well as catalog businesses.  Our Sam's Club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, as well as digital retailers and catalog businesses.. 17. Our Walmart International segment competes with both physical retailers who operate department, drug, discount, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, wholesale clubs, home-improvement stores, specialty electronics stores, cash & carry operations and convenience stores, and digital retailers, as well as catalog businesses.. We compete in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our digital platforms, cost and speed of and options for delivery to customers of merchandise purchased through our digital platforms or through the omni-channel integration of our physical and digital retail operations.. A failure to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets or delays or failure in execution of our strategy could materially adversely affect our financial performance.  See \"Item 1. Business\" above for additional discussion of the competitive situation of each of our reportable segments.. Certain segments of the retail industry are undergoing consolidation, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace.  Such consolidation, or other business combinations or alliances, may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions.  Such business combinations or alliances could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated or aligned companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance.. We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends or preferences, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, demand for the products and services we sell, our market share and the growth of our business.. It is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand and changes in their shopping patterns.  The success of our business depends in part on how accurately we predict consumer demand, availability of merchandise, the related impact on the demand for existing products and the competitive environment, whether for customers purchasing products at our stores and clubs, through our digital platforms or through the combination of both.  Price transparency, assortment of products, customer experience, convenience and the speed and cost of shipping are of primary importance to customers and continue to increase in importance, particularly as a result of digital tools and social media available to consumers and the choices available to consumers for purchasing products.  Our failure to adequately or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and shopping patterns, or any other failure on our part to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and shopping patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for the products we sell, our market share and the growth of our business.. Failure to grow our eCommerce business through the omni-channel integration of physical and digital retail or otherwise, and the cost of our increasing eCommerce investments, may materially adversely affect our market position, net sales and financial performance.. The retail business is rapidly evolving and consumers are increasingly embracing shopping online and through mobile commerce applications.  As a result, the portion of total consumer expenditures with retailers and wholesale clubs occurring through digital platforms is increasing and the pace of this increase could accelerate.. Our strategy, which includes investments in eCommerce, technology, store remodels and other customer initiatives may not adequately or effectively allow us to grow our eCommerce business, increase comparable store sales, maintain or grow our overall market position or otherwise offset the impact on the growth of our business of a moderated pace of new store and club openings.  The success of this strategy will depend in large measure on our ability to build and deliver a seamless omni-channel shopping experience and is further subject to the risks we face as outlined in this Item 1A.  As a result, our market position, net sales and financial performance could be adversely affected.  In addition, a greater concentration of eCommerce sales could result in a reduction in the amount of traffic in our stores and clubs, which would, in turn, reduce the opportunities for cross-store or cross-club sales of merchandise that such traffic creates and could reduce our sales within our stores and clubs and materially adversely affect the financial performance of the physical retail side of our operations.. Furthermore, the cost of certain eCommerce and technology investments, including any operating losses incurred by acquired eCommerce businesses will adversely impact our financial performance in the short-term and may adversely impact our financial performance over the longer term.. The performance of strategic alliances to support the expansion of our Walmart International segment could materially adversely affect our financial performance.. Our Walmart International segment may enter into strategic alliances in the countries in which we have existing operations or in other markets to expand our digital retail operations, physical retail operations or both.  Any strategic alliance may not generate the level of eCommerce or other sales we anticipate when entering into that alliance or may otherwise adversely impact our. 18. business and competitive position relative to the results we could have achieved in the absence of such alliance.  In addition, any investment we make in connection with a strategic alliance could materially adversely affect our financial performance.. Operational Risks. Natural disasters, changes in climate, and geo-political events could materially adversely affect our financial performance.. The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, floods, fires, earthquakes, tsunamis, cyclones, typhoons, weather conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornadoes, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, severe changes in climate and geo-political events, such as war, civil unrest or terrorist attacks in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance.. Such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution facilities, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distribution facilities are located, the unavailability of our digital platforms to our customers, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers and in consumers' disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution facilities or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and disruption in our communications with our stores.. We bear the risk of losses incurred as a result of physical damage to, or destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution facilities, loss or spoilage of inventory and business interruption caused by such events.  These events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations in the areas in which they occur and could materially adversely affect our financial performance.. Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced could materially adversely affect our financial performance.. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers.  Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance.  We expect all of our suppliers to comply with applicable laws, including labor, safety and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of conduct.  Our ability to find qualified suppliers who uphold our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner, is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the U.S.. Political and economic instability in the countries in which our foreign suppliers and their manufacturers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet certain of our supplier standards (including our responsible sourcing standards), labor problems experienced by our suppliers and their manufacturers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise safety and quality issues, disruption in the transportation of merchandise from the suppliers and manufacturers to our stores, clubs, and other facilities, including as a result of labor slowdowns at any port at which a material amount of merchandise we purchase enters into the U.S., currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control.. In addition, the U.S.'s foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control.  These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance.. If the products we sell are not safe or otherwise fail to meet our customers' expectations, we could lose customers, incur liability for any injuries suffered by customers using or consuming a product we sell or otherwise experience material adverse effects to our brand, reputation and financial performance.. Our customers count on us to provide them with safe products.  Concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers or that we prepare and then sell could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control.  Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish.  As such, any issue regarding the safety of any food or non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our brand, reputation and financial performance.. 19. We rely extensively on information systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business.  Disruptions in our systems could harm our ability to conduct our operations.. Given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is crucial that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical information systems.  Our information systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, worms, other malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks, security breaches (through cyber-attacks from cyber-attackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates or contractors.  Our information systems are essential to our business operations, including the processing of transactions, management of our associates, facilities, logistics, inventories, physical stores and clubs and our online operations.  Our information systems are not fully redundant and if our systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our business operations in the interim.  Any interruption to our information systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.  In addition, we are constantly updating our information technology processes and systems.  The risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken.  If we fail to timely integrate and update our information systems and processes, we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives.. If the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our eCommerce business globally, could be materially adversely affected.. Many of our customers shop with us using our digital platforms, which are a part of our omni-channel sales strategy.  Increasingly, customers are using computers, tablets, and smart phones to shop online and through digital platforms with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping.  We use social media and electronic mail to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience.  As a part of our omni-channel sales strategy, in addition to home delivery, we offer \"Walmart Pickup,\" \"Pickup Today\" and \"Club Pickup\" and, in a growing number of locations, \"Online Grocery\" programs under which many products available for purchase online can be picked up by the customer at a local Walmart store or Sam's Club, which provides additional customer traffic at such stores and clubs.  Omni-channel retailing is a rapidly evolving part of the retail industry and of our operations in the U.S. (whether through organic growth or eCommerce acquisitions) and in a number of markets in which our Walmart International segment operates.. We must anticipate and meet our customers' changing expectations while adjusting for technology investments and developments in our competitors' operations through focusing on the building and delivery of a seamless shopping experience across all channels by each operating segment.  Any failure on our part to provide attractive, user-friendly secure digital platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices and with low cost and rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers and developments in online and digital platform merchandising and related technology could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of eCommerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our eCommerce business globally and have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. Our digital platforms, which are increasingly important to our business and continue to grow in complexity and scope, and the computer and operating systems on which they run, including those applications and systems in our acquired eCommerce businesses, may be subject to cyber-attacks.  Those attacks could involve attempts to gain access to one of our eCommerce websites or mobile commerce applications to obtain and make unauthorized use of customers' or members' payment information and related risks discussed below.  Such attacks, if successful, can also create denials of service or otherwise disable, degrade or sabotage one or more of our digital platforms and otherwise significantly disrupt our customers' and members' shopping experience.  If we are unable to maintain the security of our digital platforms and keep them operating within acceptable parameters, we could suffer loss of sales, reductions in traffic, reputational damage and deterioration of our competitive position and incur liability for any damage to customers whose personal information is unlawfully obtained and used, any of which events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and impede the execution of our strategy for the growth of our business.. Any failure to maintain the security of the information relating to our company, customers, members, associates and vendors, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks on our information systems or otherwise, could damage our reputation, result in litigation or other legal actions against us, cause us to incur substantial additional costs, and materially adversely affect our business and operating results.. As do most retailers, we receive and store in our digital information systems certain personal information about our customers and members, and we receive and store personal information concerning our associates and vendors.  Some of that information is stored digitally in connection with our digital platforms.  We also utilize third-party service providers for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, for encryption and authentication technology, content delivery to customers and members, back-office support, and other functions.  Such providers may have access to information we hold about our customers, members, associates or vendors.  In addition, our eCommerce operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments.. 20. Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and those threats and the means for obtaining access to information in digital and other storage media are becoming increasingly sophisticated.  Cyber threats and cyber-attackers can be sponsored by countries or sophisticated criminal organizations or be the work of single \"hackers\" or small groups of \"hackers.\"  Each year, cyber-attackers make numerous attempts to access the information stored in our information systems.  As cyber threats evolve, change and become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, one or more cyber-attacks might defeat our or a third-party service provider's security measures in the future and obtain the personal information of customers, members, associates and vendors.. Associate error or malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularities may also result in a defeat of our or our third-party service providers' security measures and a breach of our or their information systems.  Moreover, hardware, software or applications we use may have inherent defects of design, manufacture or operations or could be inadvertently or intentionally implemented or used in a manner that could compromise information security.  We or our third-party service providers may not discover any security breach and loss of information for a significant period of time after the security breach occurs.. Any breach of our security measures or any breach, error or malfeasance of those of our third-party service providers and loss of our confidential information, or any failure by us to comply with applicable privacy and information security laws and regulations, could cause us to incur significant costs to protect any customers, members, associates and vendors whose personal data was compromised and to restore their confidence in us and to make changes to our information systems and administrative processes to address security issues and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.. In addition, such events could be widely publicized and could materially adversely affect our reputation with our customers, members, associates, vendors and shareholders, could harm our competitive position particularly with respect to our eCommerce operations, and could result in a material reduction in our net sales in our eCommerce operations, as well as in our stores thereby materially adversely affecting our operations, net sales, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity.  Such events could also result in the release to the public of confidential information about our operations and financial condition and performance and could result in litigation or other legal actions against us or the imposition of penalties, fines, fees or liabilities, which may not be covered by our insurance policies.  Moreover, a security breach could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by the security breach and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures we employ to guard personal information against cyber-attacks and other attempts to access such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our digital retail operations.. We accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, our private label credit cards and gift cards, and we may offer new payment options over time, which may have information security risk implications.  As a retailer accepting debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to various industry data protection standards and protocols, such as payment network security operating guidelines and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard.  We cannot be certain that the security measures we maintain to protect all of our information technology systems are able to prevent, contain or detect any cyber-attacks, cyber terrorism, or security breaches from known cyber-attacks or malware that may be developed in the future.  To the extent that any cyber-attack or incursion in our or one of our third-party service provider's information systems results in the loss, damage or misappropriation of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card networks and others.  In certain circumstances, payment card association rules and obligations to which we are subject under our contracts with payment card processors make us liable to payment card issuers if information in connection with payment cards and payment card transactions that we hold is compromised, which liabilities could be substantial.  In addition, the cost of complying with stricter and more complex data privacy, data collection and information security laws and standards could be significant to us.. Changes in the results of our retail pharmacy business could adversely affect our overall results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. Walmart has retail pharmacy operations in our Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments and a large majority of the retail pharmacy net sales are generated by filling prescriptions for which we receive payment through established contractual relationships with third-party payers and payment administrators, such as private insurers, governmental agencies and pharmacy benefit managers (\"PBMs\").. Our retail pharmacy operations are subject to numerous risks, including: reductions in the third-party reimbursement rates for drugs; changes in our payer mix (i.e., shifts in the relative distribution of our pharmacy customers across drug insurance plans and programs toward plans and programs with less favorable reimbursement terms); changes in third party payer drug formularies (i.e., the schedule of prescription drugs approved for reimbursement or which otherwise receive preferential coverage treatment); growth in, and our participation in or exclusion from, exclusive and preferred pharmacy network arrangements operated by PBMs and/or any insurance plan or program; increases in the prices we pay for brand name and generic prescription drugs we sell; increases in the administrative burdens associated with seeking third-party reimbursement; changes in the frequency with which new brand name pharmaceuticals become available to consumers; introduction of lower cost generic drugs as substitutes for existing brand name drugs for which there was no prior generic drug competition; changes in drug mix (i.e., the relative distribution of drugs customers purchase at our pharmacies between brands and generics); changes. 21. in the health insurance market generally; changes in the scope of or the elimination of Medicare Part D or Medicaid drug programs; increased competition from other retail pharmacy operations; further consolidation among third party payers, PBMs or purchasers of drugs; overall economic conditions and the ability of our pharmacy customers to pay for drugs prescribed for them to the extent the costs are not reimbursed by a third party; failure to meet any performance or incentive thresholds to which our level of third party reimbursement may be subject; and changes in the regulatory environment for the retail pharmacy industry and the pharmaceutical industry, including as a result of restrictions on the further implementation of or the repeal of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act or the enactment and implementation of a law replacing such act, and other changes in laws, rules and regulations that affect our retail pharmacy business.. If the supply of certain pharmaceuticals provided by one or more of our vendors were to be disrupted for any reason, our pharmacy operations could be severely affected until at least such time as we could obtain a new supplier for such pharmaceuticals.  Any such disruption could cause reputational damage and result in a significant number of our pharmacy customers transferring their prescriptions to other pharmacies.. One or a combination of such factors may adversely affect the volumes of brand name and generic pharmaceuticals we sell, our cost of sales associated with our retail pharmacy operations, and the net sales and gross margin of those operations, result in the loss of cross-store or cross-club selling opportunities and, in turn, adversely affect our overall net sales, other results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. Our failure to attract and retain qualified associates, increases in wage and benefit costs, changes in laws and other labor issues could materially adversely affect our financial performance.. Our ability to continue to conduct and expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates globally.  Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we operate, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations.  If we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel, the quality of service we provide to our customers may decrease and our financial performance may be adversely affected.. In addition, if our costs of labor or related costs increase for other reasons or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations or healthcare laws are adopted or implemented that further increase our labor costs, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected.. Financial Risks. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may materially adversely affect our financial performance and our reported results of operations.. Our operations in countries other than the U.S. are conducted primarily in the local currencies of those countries.  Our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, and to prepare those financial statements we must translate the amounts of the assets, liabilities, net sales, other revenues and expenses of our operations outside of the U.S. from local currencies into U.S. dollars using exchange rates for the current period.  In recent years, fluctuations in currency exchange rates that were unfavorable to us coupled with such translations have had a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations.. As a result of such translations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates from period-to-period that are unfavorable to us may also result in our consolidated financial statements reflecting significant adverse period-over-period changes in our financial performance or reflecting a period-over-period improvement in our financial performance that is not as robust as it would be without such fluctuations in the currency exchange rates.  Such unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations will adversely affect the reported performance of our Walmart International operating segment and have a corresponding adverse effect on our reported consolidated results of operations.. We may pay for products we purchase for sale in our stores and clubs around the world with a currency other than the local currency of the country in which the goods will be sold.  When we must acquire the currency to pay for such products and the exchange rates for the payment currency fluctuate in a manner unfavorable to us, our cost of sales may increase and we may be unable or unwilling to change the prices at which we sell those goods to address that increase in our costs, with a corresponding adverse effect on our gross profit.  Consequently, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations.. Failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance could adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock.. We believe that the price of our stock generally reflects high market expectations for our future operating results.  Any failure to meet or delay in meeting these expectations, including our comparable store and club sales growth rates, eCommerce growth. 22. rates, gross margin, or earnings and earnings per share could cause the market price of our stock to decline, as could changes in our dividend or stock repurchase programs or policies.  Additionally, failure of Walmart's performance to match that of other retailers may have a negative effect on the price of our stock.. Legal, Tax, Regulatory, Compliance, Reputational and Other Risks. Our operations subject us to legislative, judicial, accounting, legal, regulatory, tax, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could materially adversely affect our business or financial performance.. In addition to our U.S. operations, we operate our retail business principally through wholly-owned subsidiaries in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, India, Japan and the United Kingdom and our majority-owned subsidiaries in Africa, Central America and Mexico.. In fiscal 2018, our Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club operating segments generated approximately 76% of our consolidated net sales.  The Federal Government has created the potential for significant changes in trade policies, including tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries where we source many of the products we sell in our stores and clubs.  Potential changes which have been discussed include the renegotiation or termination of trade agreements and the imposition of higher tariffs on imports into the U.S.  A significant portion of the general merchandise we sell in our U.S. stores and clubs is manufactured in other countries.  Any such actions could increase the cost to us of such merchandise (whether imported directly or indirectly) and cause increases in the prices at which we sell such merchandise to our customers, which could materially adversely affect the financial performance of our U.S. operations and our business.. During fiscal 2018, our Walmart International operations generated approximately 24% of our consolidated net sales.  Walmart International's operations in various countries also sources goods and services from other countries.  Our future operating results in these countries could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control.  These factors include political conditions, including political instability, local and global economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, local product safety and environmental laws, tax regulations, local labor laws, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, trade policies, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future.. Our business and results of operations in the UK may be negatively affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, increases in food costs, changes in trade policies, or changes in labor, immigration, tax or other laws resulting from the UK's anticipated exit from the European Union.. Brazilian federal, state and local laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations.  Although the Company believes it complies with those laws, the Company's subsidiaries in Brazil are party to a large number of labor claims and non-income tax assessments, which have arisen during the normal course of business in Brazil.  These matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and if decided adversely to the Company, could materially adversely affect our financial performance.. The economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance.  Other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies of the U.S. and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the U.S.  Additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the U.S.  The various risks inherent in doing business in the U.S. generally also exist when doing business outside of the U.S., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations.. In foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"), or the laws and regulations of other countries, such as the UK Bribery Act.  We maintain a global policy prohibiting such business practices and have in place a global anti-corruption compliance program designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations.  Nevertheless, we remain subject to the risk that one or more of our associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such U.S. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations.  Any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could adversely affect our business or financial performance and our reputation.. We are subject to income taxes and other taxes in both the U.S. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or have historically operated.  The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation.  Our income taxes could be materially adversely affected by earnings being. 23. lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in worldwide tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Act\") was enacted and contains significant changes to U.S. income tax law.  Effective in 2018, the Tax Act reduces the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent and creates new taxes focused on foreign-sourced earnings and related-party payments.  In addition, the Company was subject to a one-time transition tax in fiscal 2018 on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings not previously subject to U.S. income tax.  The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (\"SAB 118\") on December 22, 2017, which allows companies to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend beyond one year of the enactment date.  Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, the Company made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements as of January 31, 2018, in accordance with SAB 118.  As the Company collects and prepares necessary data, and interprets the Tax Act and any additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, the Company may make adjustments to the provisional amounts during fiscal 2019.  Those adjustments may materially impact our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made and could impact our net income and our earnings per share, as well as our consolidated cash flows and liquidity.. We are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities as well as subject to the prospective and retrospective effects of changing tax regulations and legislation.  Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination and settlement is made.. We operate in complex regulated environments in the United States and in the other countries in which we operate and could be adversely affected by changes to existing legal requirements including the related interpretations and enforcement practices, new legal requirements and/or any failure to comply with applicable regulations.  Our pharmacy operations in the United States are subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations including licensing and other requirements for pharmacies and reimbursement arrangements.  The regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to: federal and state registration and regulation of pharmacies; dispensing and sale of controlled substances and products containing pseudoephedrine; applicable governmental payer regulations including Medicare and Medicaid; data privacy and security laws and regulations including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, the Affordable Care Act or any successor thereto; laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances; regulations regarding food and drug safety including those of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the \"FDA\") and the Drug Enforcement Administration (the \"DEA\"), trade regulations including those of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, and consumer protection and safety regulations including those of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, as well as state regulatory authorities, governing the availability, sale, advertisement and promotion of products we sell and the financial services we offer; anti-kickback laws; false claims laws; and federal and state laws governing health care fraud and abuse and the practice of the professions of pharmacy, optical care and nurse practitioner services.. For example, in the United States the DEA and various other regulatory authorities regulate the distribution and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances.  We are required to hold valid DEA and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the federal and various state controlled substance acts and related regulations governing the sale, dispensing, disposal, holding and distribution of controlled substances.  The DEA, FDA and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations.  We are also governed by foreign, national and state laws of general applicability, including laws regulating matters of working conditions, health and safety and equal employment opportunity and other labor and employment matters, as well as employee benefit, competition, anti-money laundering, antitrust matters and health and wellness related regulations for our pharmacy operations outside of the United States.  Changes in laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may alter the landscape in which we do business and may significantly affect our cost of doing business.. The impact of new laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices generally cannot be predicted, and changes in applicable laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may require extensive system and operational changes, be difficult to implement, increase our operating costs and require significant capital expenditures.  Untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect the continued operation of our businesses, including: suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required government certifications; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs in the United States; loss of licenses; and significant fines or monetary damages and/or penalties.  Any failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the United States or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in significant legal and financial. 24. exposure, damage our reputation, and have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation.  In particular, we are currently a defendant in a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws, as well as a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state consumer laws.. In addition, ASDA Stores, Ltd. (\"ASDA\"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, has been named as a defendant in over 10,000 \"equal value\" claims pending in the Manchester Employment Tribunal (the \"Employment Tribunal\") in the United Kingdom.  The claimants, who are current and former ASDA store employees, allege that the work performed by female employees in ASDA's retail stores is of equal value in terms of, among other things, the demands of their jobs to that of male employees working in ASDA's warehouses and distribution facilities, and that the disparity in pay between these different job positions is not objectively justified.  The claimants are seeking differential back pay based on higher wage rates in the warehouses and distribution facilities and higher wage rates on a prospective basis.  At present, we cannot predict the number of such claims that may be filed, and cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from these proceedings.. In December 2017, the United States Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation consolidated numerous lawsuits filed against a wide array of defendants by various plaintiffs, including counties, cities, healthcare providers, Native American tribes, individuals, and third-party payors, asserting claims generally concerning the impacts of widespread opioid abuse.  The consolidated multidistrict litigation is entitled In re National Prescription Opiate Litigation (MDL No. 2804), and is pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio.  The Company is named as a defendant in some of the cases included in this multidistrict litigation, including cases filed by several counties in West Virginia; by healthcare providers in Mississippi, Alabama, Texas, and Florida; and by the St. Croix Chippewa Indians of Wisconsin.  Similar cases that name the Company have been filed in state courts by various counties and municipalities; by health care providers; and by various Native American Tribes.  At present, we cannot predict the number of such claims that may be filed, and cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from such claims.. We discuss these cases and other litigation to which we are party below under the caption \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings\" and in Note 10 in the \"Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements,\" which are part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We could be subject to liability, penalties and other sanctions and other adverse consequences arising out of our on-going FCPA matter.. The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors has been conducting an internal investigation into, among other things, alleged violations of the FCPA and other alleged crimes or misconduct in connection with certain of our foreign subsidiaries, including Wal-Mart de Mxico, S.A.B. de C.V. (\"Walmex\"), and whether prior allegations of such violations and/or misconduct were appropriately handled by the Company.  We have also been conducting a voluntary global review of our policies, practices and internal controls for anti-corruption compliance and are engaged in strengthening our global anti-corruption compliance programs.  Since the implementation of the global review and enhanced anti-corruption compliance programs, the Audit Committee and we have identified or been made aware of additional allegations regarding potential violations of the FCPA.. Inquiries or investigations regarding allegations of potential FCPA violations have been commenced in a number of foreign markets in which we operate, including, but not limited to, Brazil, China and India.  In November 2011, we voluntarily disclosed our investigative activity to the U.S. Department of Justice (the \"DOJ\") and the SEC.  We have been cooperating with those agencies and discussions have been ongoing with them regarding the resolution of these matters.  These discussions have progressed to a point that we can now reasonably estimate a probable loss and have recorded an aggregate accrual of $283 million with respect to these matters (the \"Accrual\").. A number of federal and local government agencies in Mexico have also initiated investigations of these matters.  Furthermore, lawsuits relating to the matters under investigation have been filed by several of our shareholders against us, certain of our current and former directors and officers and certain of Walmex's current and former officers.. We could be exposed to a variety of negative consequences as a result of these matters.  One or more enforcement actions could be instituted in respect of the matters that are the subject of some or all of the on-going government investigations, and such actions, if brought, may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, cease and desist orders, debarment or other relief, criminal convictions and/or penalties.  The shareholder lawsuits may result in judgments against us and our current and former directors and officers named in those proceedings.  We also expect that there will be ongoing media and governmental interest regarding these matters, including additional news articles on these matters that could impact the perception of our role as a corporate citizen among certain audiences.  Moreover, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur costs in responding to requests for information or subpoenas seeking documents, testimony and other information in. 25. connection with the government investigations, in defending the shareholder lawsuits and in conducting our review and investigations.. While we have made an Accrual for these matters, because the discussions are continuing, there can be no assurance as to the timing or the terms of the final resolution of these matters.  Although we do not presently believe that these matters will have a material adverse effect on our business, given the inherent uncertainties in such situations, we can provide no assurance that these matters will not be material to our business in the future."
