[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investors should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this report. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those currently viewed by us to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in the information technology industry and/or economic environment may reduce demand for the products and services we sell. Our results of operations are influenced by a variety of factors, including the condition of the IT industry, general economic conditions, shifts in demand for, or availability of, computer products and software and IT services and industry introductions of new products, upgrades or methods of distribution. The information technology products industry is characterized by abrupt changes in technology, rapid changes in customer preferences, short product life cycles and evolving industry standards. Net sales can be dependent on demand for specific product categories, and any change in demand for or supply of such products could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, and/or cause us to record write-downs of obsolete inventory, if we fail to react in a timely manner to such changes.. We rely on our suppliers for product availability, marketing funds, purchasing incentives and competitive products to sell. We acquire products for resale both directly from manufacturers and indirectly from distributors. The loss of a supplier could cause a disruption in the availability of products. Additionally, there is no assurance that as manufacturers continue to or increasingly sell directly to end users and through the distribution channel, that they will not limit or curtail the availability of their products to distributors/resellers like us. For example, resellers and publishers may attempt to increase the volume of software products distributed electronically through ESD (Electronic Software. 6. Table of Contents. Distribution) technology, through subscription services, and through on-line shopping services, and correspondingly, decrease the volume of products sold through us.  Our inability to obtain a sufficient quantity of products, or an allocation of products from a manufacturer in a way that favors one of our competitors, or competing distribution channels, relative to us, could cause us to be unable to fill clients' orders in a timely manner, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also rely on our suppliers to provide funds for us to market their products, including through our on-line marketing efforts, and to provide purchasing incentives to us.  If any of the suppliers that have historically provided these benefits to us decides to reduce such benefits, our expenses would increase, adversely affecting our results of operations.. General economic weakness may reduce our revenues and profits.   Generally, economic downturns, may cause some of our current and potential customers to delay or reduce technology purchases, resulting in longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. We may, therefore, experience a greater decline in demand for the products we sell, resulting in increased competition and pressure to reduce the cost of operations. Any benefits from cost reductions may take longer to realize and may not fully mitigate the impact of the reduced demand. In addition, weak financial and credit markets heighten the risk of customer bankruptcies and create a corresponding delay in collecting receivables from those customers and may also affect our vendors' ability to supply products, which could disrupt our operations.  The realization of any or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We depend on having creditworthy customers to avoid an adverse impact to our operating results and financial condition.  We may require sufficient amounts of debt and/or equity capital to fund our transactions as we provide larger extended payment terms to certain of our customers. If the credit quality of our customer base materially decreases, or if we experience a material increase in our credit losses, we may find it difficult to continue to obtain the required capital for our business, and our operating results and financial condition may be harmed. In addition to the impact on our ability to attract capital, a material increase in our delinquency and default experience would itself have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, if any of our customers to whom we provide larger extended payment terms go elsewhere for financing, such loss of revenue could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. The IT products and services industry is intensely competitive and actions of competitors, including manufacturers of products we sell, can negatively affect our business. Competition has been based primarily on price, product availability, speed of delivery, credit availability and quality and breadth of product lines and, increasingly, also is based on the ability to tailor specific solutions to client needs. We compete with manufacturers, including manufacturers of products we sell, as well as a large number and wide variety of marketers and resellers of IT products and services. In addition, manufacturers are increasing the volume of software products they distribute electronically directly to end-users and in the future, will likely pay lower referral fees for sales of certain software licensing agreements sold by us.  Generally, pricing is very aggressive in the industry, and we expect pricing pressures to continue. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate prices as favorable as those negotiated by our competitors or that we will be able to offset the effects of price reductions with an increase in the number of clients, higher net sales, cost reductions, or greater sales of services, which service sales typically at higher gross margins, or otherwise. Price reductions by our competitors that we either cannot or choose not to match could result in an erosion of our market share and/or reduced sales or, to the extent we match such reductions, could result in reduced operating margins, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We operate on narrow margins. We operate in a very competitive business environment. Like other companies in the technology distribution industry, the Company's business is continually under pricing pressure and characterized by narrow gross and operating margins. These narrow margins magnify the impact on the Company's operating results attributed to variations in sales and operating costs and place a premium on our ability to leverage our infrastructure. Future gross and operating margins may be adversely affected by changes in product mix, vendor pricing actions and competitive and economic pressures. In addition, failure to attract new sources of business from expansion of products or services or entry into new markets may adversely affect future gross and operating margins.. If we lose several of our larger customers our earnings may be affected. Meeting our customers' needs quickly and fairly is critical to our business success. Our contracts for the provision of products are generally non-. 7. Table of Contents. exclusive agreements that are terminable by either party upon 30 days' notice. In addition, our agreements with these larger customers do not provide for minimum purchase commitments. The loss of several of our large customers, the failure of such customers to pay their accounts receivable on a timely basis, or a material reduction in the amount of purchases made by such customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, anything that negatively impacts our customer relations also can negatively impact our operating results.. Disruptions in our information technology and voice and data networks could affect our ability to service our clients and cause us to incur additional expenses. We believe that our success to date has been, and future results of operations likely will be, dependent in large part upon our ability to provide prompt and efficient service to clients. Our ability to provide such services is dependent largely on the accuracy, quality and utilization of the information generated by our IT systems, which affect our ability to manage our sales, client service, distribution, inventories and accounting systems and the reliability of our voice and data networks.. Failure to adequately maintain the security of our electronic and other confidential information could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  We are dependent upon automated information technology processes. Privacy, security, and compliance concerns have continued to increase as technology has evolved to facilitate commerce and as cross-border commerce increases. As part of our normal business activities, we collect and store certain confidential information, including personal information of employees and information about partners and clients which may be entitled to protection under a number of regulatory regimes. In the course of normal and customary business practice, we may share some of this information with vendors who assist us with certain aspects of our business. Moreover, the success of our operations depends upon the secure transmission of confidential and personal data over public networks, including the use of cashless payments. Any failure on the part of us or our vendors to maintain the security of data we are required to protect, including via the penetration of our network security and the misappropriation of confidential and personal information, could result in business disruption, damage to our reputation, financial obligations to third parties, fines, penalties, regulatory proceedings and private litigation with potentially large costs, and also result in deterioration in our employees', partners' and clients' confidence in us and other competitive disadvantages, and thus could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  During 2017 and 2016 we did not have any cybersecurity breaches.. We depend on certain key personnel. Our future success will be largely dependent on the efforts of key management personnel for strategic and operational guidance as well as relationships with our key vendors and customers. We also believe that our future success will be largely dependent on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, sales, service, finance and technical personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain such personnel. Further, we make a significant investment in the training of our sales account executives. Our inability to retain such personnel or to train them either rapidly enough to meet our expanding needs or in an effective manner for quickly changing market conditions could cause a decrease in the overall quality and efficiency of our sales staff, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Risks related to our common stock. The exercise of options or any other issuance of shares by us may dilute your ownership of our Common Stock. Our Common Stock is thinly traded, which may be exacerbated by our repurchases of our Common Stock. As a result of the thin trading market for our stock, its market price may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole or of the stock prices of similar companies.  Without a larger float, our common stock will be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, and, as a result, the trading prices for our Common Stock may be more volatile. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of our Common Stock may have a greater impact on the trading price of our stock than would be the case if our public float were larger.. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, and we therefore are subject to continued listing requirements, including requirements with respect to the market value and number of publicly-held shares, number of stockholders, minimum bid price, number of market makers and either (i) stockholders' equity or (ii) total market value of stock, total assets and total revenues. If we fail to satisfy one or more of the requirements, we may be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market. If we do not qualify for listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, and if we are not able. 8. Table of Contents. to list our common stock on another exchange, our common stock could be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or on the \"pink sheets\". As a result, we could face significant adverse consequences including, among others, a limited availability of market quotations for our securities and a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future.. If the Company fails to maintain an effective system of internal controls or discovers material weaknesses in its internal controls over financial reporting, it may not be able to report its financial results accurately or timely or detect fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. An effective internal control environment is necessary for the Company to produce reliable financial reports and is an important part of its effort to prevent financial fraud. The Company is required to annually evaluate the effectiveness of the design and operation of its internal controls over financial reporting. Based on these evaluations, the Company may conclude that enhancements, modifications, or changes to internal controls are necessary or desirable. During 2017, the Company determined it had a material weakness in its internal controls as is reported in Item 9a., Controls and Procedures. While management evaluates the effectiveness of the Company's internal controls on a regular basis, these controls may not always be effective. There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls, including collusion, management override, and failure in human judgment. In addition, control procedures are designed to reduce rather than eliminate financial statement risk. If the Company fails to maintain an effective system of internal controls, or if management or the Company's independent registered public accounting firm discovers material weaknesses in the Company's internal controls, it may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. In addition, the Company may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or the NASDAQ. Any such actions could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of the Company's financial statements, which could cause the market price of its common stock to decline or limit the Company's access to capital.. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements. As described under Item 9a., Controls and Procedures, we have identified a material weakness in the Company's internal control. Under standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, a material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. We have initiated remediation measures, but these new and enhanced controls have not operated for a sufficient amount of time to conclude that the material weakness has been remediated. To implement these remediation measures, we may need to commit additional resources, hire additional staff, and provide additional management oversight. These activities may divert management's attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Further, if our remediation measures are insufficient to address the material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements, and we could be required to restate our financial results. In addition, if we are unable to successfully remediate this material weakness and if we are unable to produce accurate and timely financial statements, our stock price may be adversely affected and we may be unable to maintain compliance with applicable stock exchange listing requirements.. The Company may be subject to intellectual property rights claims, which are costly to defend, could require payment of damages or licensing fees and could limit the company's ability to use certain technologies in the future. Certain of the Company's products and services include intellectual property owned primarily by the company's. third- party suppliers. Substantial litigation and threats of litigation regarding intellectual property rights exist in the software and some service industries. From time to time, third parties (including certain companies in the business of acquiring patents not for the purpose of developing technology but with the intention of aggressively seeking licensing revenue from purported infringers) may assert patent, copyright and/or other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to the company's business. In some cases, depending on the nature of the claim, the company may be able to seek indemnification from its suppliers for itself and its customers against such claims, but there is no assurance. 9. Table of Contents. that it will be successful in obtaining such indemnification or that the company is fully protected against such claims. Any infringement claim brought against the company, regardless of the duration, outcome, or size of damage award, could:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tresult in substantial cost to the company;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdivert management's attention and resources;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tbe time consuming to defend;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tresult in substantial damage awards; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcause product shipment delays.. Additionally, if an infringement claim is successful the company may be required to pay damages or seek royalty or license arrangements, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. The payment of any such damages or royalties may significantly increase the company's operating expenses and harm the company's operating results and financial condition. Also, royalty or license arrangements may not be available at all. The company may have to stop selling certain products or using technologies, which could affect the company's ability to compete effectively."                                                       
