[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. <U+FEFF>. The following risks and uncertainties, as well as other factors described elsewhere in this report or in other SEC filings by the Company, could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The Company's financial results could suffer if the Company is unable to implement and successfully manage its strategic initiatives or if the Company's strategic initiatives do not achieve the intended results.. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to implement and successfully manage its strategic initiatives, including its five major strategic initiatives, or that the strategic initiatives will achieve the intended results. The Company's five core strategic initiatives include: (i) maximizing WD-40 Multi-Use Product sales through geographic expansion and increased market penetration and the development of new and unique delivery systems; (ii) leveraging the WD-40 brand by growing the WD-40 Specialist product line; (iii) leveraging the strengths of the Company through broadened product and revenue base; (iv) attracting, developing and retaining talented people; and (v) operating with excellence. An important part of the Company's success depends on its continuing ability to attract, retain and develop highly qualified people. The Company's future performance depends in significant part on maintaining high levels of employee engagement and nurturing the Company's values and culture. In addition, it depends on the continued service of its executive officers, key employees and other talented people, as well as effective. 5. succession planning. The loss of the services of key employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and prospects. Competition for such talent is intense, and there can be no assurance that the Company can retain its key employees or attract, assimilate and retain employees who are fully engaged in the future. If the Company is unable to implement and successfully manage its strategic initiatives in accordance with its business plans, the Company's business and financial results could be adversely affected. Moreover, the Company cannot be certain that the implementation of its strategic initiatives will necessarily advance its business or financial results as intended.. <U+FEFF>. Global operations outside the U.S. expose the Company to uncertain conditions, foreign currency exchange rate risk and other risks in international markets.. <U+FEFF>. The Company's sales outside of the U.S. were approximately 62% of consolidated net sales in fiscal year 2018 and one of its strategic initiatives includes maximizing the WD-40 Multi-Use Product through geographic expansion and market penetration. As a result, the Company currently faces, and will continue to face, substantial risks associated with having increased global operations outside the U.S., including:. <U+FEFF>.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\teconomic or political instability in the Company's global markets, including Canada, Latin America, Asia, Australia, and Europe;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchallenges associated with conducting business in foreign jurisdictions, including those related to the Company's understanding of and compliance with business laws and regulations in such foreign jurisdictions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreasing tax complexity associated with operating in multiple tax jurisdictions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdispersed employee base and compliance with employment regulations and other labor issues, such as labor laws and minimum wages, in countries outside the U.S.; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe imposition of tariffs or trade restrictions and costs, burdens and restrictions associated with other governmental actions.. <U+FEFF>. These risks could have a significant impact on the Company's ability to sell its products on a competitive basis in global markets outside the United States. In addition, recent developments in the U.S. political climate have introduced greater uncertainty with respect to tax policies, trade relations, tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries. These developments, as well as the risks outlined above, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Approximately 41% of the Company's revenues in fiscal year 2018 were generated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which is the reporting currency of the Company. In addition, all of the Company's foreign operating subsidiaries have functional currencies other than the U.S. Dollar and the Company's largest subsidiary is located in the U.K. and generates significant sales in Pound Sterling and Euro. As a result, the Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to its sales, expenses, profits, cash and cash equivalents, other assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. In particular, the Company's financial results are negatively impacted when the foreign currencies in which its subsidiary offices operate weaken relative to the U.S. Dollar. Although the Company uses instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks, primarily those associated with its U.K. subsidiary and net assets denominated in non-functional currencies, it is not fully protected against foreign currency fluctuations and, therefore, the Company's reported earnings may be affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Moreover, any favorable impacts to profit margins or financial results from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates are likely to be unsustainable over time.. <U+FEFF>. As a result of the June 2016 referendum by British voters to exit the European Union (\"Brexit\"), global markets and foreign currencies were adversely impacted in the months following the vote. In particular, the value of the Pound Sterling sharply declined as compared to the U.S. Dollar and other currencies in late fiscal year 2016 and early fiscal year 2017. Subsequently, on March 29, 2017, the U.K. invoked Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, which provides a two-year time period through March 2019 for the U.K. and the remaining EU countries to negotiate a withdrawal agreement. Additional volatility in foreign currencies may result as the U.K. negotiates and executes its impending exit from the European Union. A significantly weaker Pound Sterling compared to the U.S. Dollar over a sustained period of time may have a significant negative effect on the Company's reported results of operations. In addition, the legal and regulatory framework that will apply to the U.K. and its future relationship with the European Union after the exit is completed may change the manner in which businesses operate in Europe, including how products and services are imported and exported between countries in Europe, and this could adversely impact the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The outcomes of the negotiations between the U.K. and the European Union are currently unknown and due to the lack of comparable precedent, the extent of any adverse consequences to the Company's business is uncertain.. <U+FEFF>. Additionally, the Company's global operations outside the U.S. are subject to risks relating to appropriate compliance with legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions, potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, potentially higher incidence of fraud or corruption, credit risk of local customers and distributors and potentially adverse tax consequences. As the Company further develops and grows its business operations outside the U.S., the Company is exposed to additional. 6. complexities and risks, particularly in China, Russia and other emerging markets. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, business practices that are prohibited by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"), the U.K. Bribery Act or other applicable anti-corruption laws and regulations may be prevalent. Any failure to comply with these laws, even if inadvertent, could result in significant penalties or otherwise harm the Company's reputation and business. Although the Company has adopted policies and contract terms to mandate compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of its employees, contractors and agents will comply with the Company's requirements. Violations of these laws could be costly and disrupt the Company's business, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. If the success and reputation of one or more of the Company's leading brands erodes, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted.. <U+FEFF>. The financial success of the Company is directly dependent on the success and reputation of its brands, particularly its WD-40 brand. The success and reputation of the Company's brands can suffer if marketing plans or product development and improvement initiatives, including the release of new products or innovative packaging, do not have the desired impact on the brands' image or do not attract customers as intended. The Company's brands can also be adversely impacted due to the activities and pressures placed on them by the Company's competitors. Further, the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted if one of its leading brands suffers damage to its reputation due to real or perceived quality or safety issues. Quality issues, which can lead to large scale recalls of the Company's products, can be due to items such as product contamination, regulatory non-compliance, packaging errors, incorrect ingredients or components in the Company's product or low quality ingredients in the Company's products due to suppliers delivering items that do not meet the Company's specifications. Product quality issues, which could include lower product efficacy due to formulation changes attributable to regulatory requirements, could also result in decreased customer confidence in the Company's brands and a decline in product quality could result in product liability claims. In addition, the Company's brand value depends on its ability to maintain a positive consumer perception of its corporate integrity and brand culture. Negative claims or publicity involving the Company, its products, or any of its key employees could seriously damage the Company's reputation and brand image, regardless of whether such claims are accurate. Although the Company makes every effort to prevent brand erosion and preserve its reputation and the reputation of its brands, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful.. <U+FEFF>. Sales unit volume growth may be difficult to achieve.. <U+FEFF>. The Company's ability to achieve sales volume growth will depend on its ability to (i) execute its strategic initiatives, (ii) drive growth in new markets by making targeted end users aware of the Company's products and making them easier to buy, (iii) drive growth within its existing markets through innovation, renovation and enhanced merchandising and marketing of its established brands, and (iv) capture market share from its competitors. It is more difficult for the Company to achieve sales volume growth in developed markets where the Company's products are widely used as compared to in developing or emerging markets where the Company's products have been newly introduced or are not as well known by consumers. In order to protect the Company's existing market share or capture additional market share from its competitors, the Company may need to increase its expenditures related to promotions and advertising or introduce and establish new products or product lines. In past periods, the Company has also increased sales prices on certain of its products in response to increased costs for components and raw materials. Sales price increases may slow sales volume growth or create declines in volume in the short term as customers and end users adjust to sales price increases. In addition, the continued prominence and growth of the online retail sales channel has presented both the Company and its customers that sell the Company's products online with the challenge of balancing online and physical store retailing methods. Although the Company is engaged in e-commerce with respect to its products, if it is not successful in expanding sales in such alternative retail channels or it experiences challenges with operating in such channels, including challenges associated with the increased demand for non-flammable air shippable products, the Company's financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted. In addition, a change in the strategies of the Company's existing customers, including shelf simplification, the discontinuation of certain product offerings or the shift in shelf space to competitors' products could reduce the Company's sales and potentially offset sales volume increases achieved as a result of other sales growth initiatives. If the Company is unable to increase market share in its existing product lines by developing product improvements, investing adequately in its existing brands, building usage among new customers, developing, acquiring or successfully launching new products or product line extensions, or successfully penetrating emerging and developing markets and sales channels globally, the Company may not achieve its sales volume growth objectives.. <U+FEFF>. Cost increases or cost volatility in finished goods, components, raw materials, transportation and other necessary supplies or services could harm or impact the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Increases in the cost of finished goods, components and raw materials and increases in the cost of transportation and other necessary supplies or services may harm the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Petroleum-based specialty chemicals and aerosol cans, which constitute a significant portion of the costs for many of the Company's maintenance products, have experienced significant price volatility in the past, and may continue to do so in the future. In particular, volatility in the. 7. price of oil directly impacts the cost of petroleum-based specialty chemicals which are indexed to the price of crude oil. Fluctuations in oil and diesel fuel prices have also historically impacted the Company's cost of transporting its products, compounded recently by increased regulations imposed on the freight industry and additional macroeconomic factors which have resulted in increased freight costs. If there are significant increases in the costs of components, raw materials and other expenses, and the Company is not able to increase the prices of its products or achieve cost savings to offset such cost increases, the Company's gross margins and operating results will be negatively impacted. In addition, if the Company increases its sales prices in response to increases in the cost of such raw materials, and those raw material costs later decline significantly, the Company may not be able to sustain its sales prices at these higher levels. As component and raw material costs are the principal contributors to the cost of goods sold for all of the Company's products, any significant fluctuation in the costs of components and raw materials could have a material impact on the gross margins realized on the Company's products. Sustained increases in the cost of raw materials, components, transportation and other necessary supplies or services, or significant volatility in such costs, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Reliance on a limited base of third-party contract manufacturers, logistics providers and suppliers of raw materials and components may result in disruption to the Company's business and this could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The Company relies on a limited number of third-party contract manufacturers, logistics providers and suppliers, including single or sole source suppliers for certain of its raw materials, packaging, product components and other necessary supplies. The Company does not have direct control over the management or business of these third parties, except indirectly through terms negotiated in service or supply contracts. Should the terms of doing business with the Company's primary third-party contract manufacturers, suppliers and/or logistics providers change or should the Company have a disagreement with or be unable to maintain relationships with such third parties or should such third parties experience financial difficulties, the Company's business may be disrupted.  In addition, if the Company is unable to contract with third-party manufacturers or suppliers for the quantity and quality levels needed for its business, the Company could experience disruptions in production and its financial results could be adversely affected.. <U+FEFF>. Global economic conditions may negatively impact the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. A general weakening or decline in the global economy or a reduction in industrial outputs, business or consumer spending or confidence could delay or significantly decrease purchases of the Company's products by its customers and end users. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, which could include the Company's maintenance products and homecare and cleaning products, may decline during periods where disposable income is reduced or there is economic uncertainty, and this may negatively impact the Company's financial condition and results of operations. During unfavorable or uncertain economic times, end users may also increase purchases of lower-priced or non-branded products and the Company's competitors may increase their level of promotional activities to maintain sales volumes, both of which may negatively impact the Company's financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Company's sales and operating results may be affected by uncertain or changing economic and market conditions, including inflation, deflation, prolonged weak consumer demand, political instability or other changes that may affect the principal markets, trade channels, and industrial segments in which the Company conducts its business. If economic or market conditions in key global markets deteriorate, the Company may experience material adverse effects on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Adverse economic and market conditions could also harm the Company's business by negatively affecting the parties with whom it does business, including its customers, retailers, distributors and wholesalers, and third-party contract manufacturers and suppliers. These conditions could impair the ability of the Company's customers to pay for products they have purchased from the Company. As a result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable from the Company's customers may increase. In addition, the Company's third-party contract manufacturers and its suppliers may experience financial difficulties that could negatively affect their operations and their ability to supply the Company with finished goods and the raw materials, packaging, and components required for the Company's products.. <U+FEFF>. Government laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, could result in material costs or otherwise adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The manufacturing, chemical composition, packaging, storage, distribution and labeling of the Company's products and the manner in which the Company's business operations are conducted must comply with an extensive array of federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. If the Company is not successful in complying with the requirements of all such regulations, it could be fined or other actions could be taken against the Company by the applicable governing body, including the possibility of a required product recall. Any such regulatory action could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations. It is also possible that governments and regulatory agencies will increase regulation, including the adoption of further regulations relating to the transportation, storage or use of certain chemicals, to enhance homeland security or protect the environment and such increased regulation could negatively impact the Company's ability to obtain raw materials, components. 8. and/or finished goods or could result in increased costs. In the event that such regulations result in increased product costs, the Company may not be in a position to raise selling prices, and therefore an increase in costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Some of the Company's products have chemical compositions that are controlled by various state, federal and international laws and regulations, such as regulations issued by the California Air Resources Board relating to permitted levels of volatile organic compounds. The Company is required to comply with these laws and regulations and it seeks to anticipate regulatory developments that could impact the Company's ability to continue to produce and market its products. The Company invests in research and development to maintain product formulations that comply with such laws and regulations. There can be no assurance that the Company will not be required to alter the chemical composition of one or more of the Company's products in a way that will have an adverse effect upon the product's efficacy or marketability. A delay or other inability of the Company to complete product research and development and successfully reformulate its products in response to any such regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The Company is subject to an SEC rule mandated by Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that requires management to conduct annual due diligence to determine whether certain minerals and metals, known as \"conflict minerals\", are contained in the Company's products and, if so, whether they originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo (\"DRC\") or adjoining countries. Although the Company has concluded that its current products do not contain such conflict minerals in its annual evaluations to date, if the Company were to conclude that these materials exist within the Company's products in future periods, the Company may have difficulty verifying the origin of such materials for purposes of disclosures required by the SEC rules.. <U+FEFF>. The Company is also subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that impose various environmental controls on its business operations, including, among other things, the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the handling, use, treatment, storage and clean-up of solid and hazardous wastes and the investigation and remediation of soil and groundwater affected by hazardous substances. Such laws and regulations may otherwise relate to various health and safety matters that impose burdens upon the Company's operations. These laws and regulations also impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the costs of, and damages resulting from, cleaning up current sites, past spills, disposals and other releases of hazardous substances. The Company believes that its expenditures related to environmental matters have not had, and are not currently expected to have, a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. However, the environmental laws under which the Company operates are complicated, often become increasingly more stringent and may be applied retroactively. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company will not be required to incur additional expenditures to remain in or to achieve compliance with environmental laws in the future or that any such additional expenditures will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, certain countries and other jurisdictions in which the Company operates have data protection laws that impose strict regulations on the Company. For instance, The European Commission approved the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") which became effective for the Company beginning in May 2018. GDPR required certain operational changes to be made with regard to how the Company receives and processes personal data of residents of the European Union. Non-compliance with GDPR would result in significant penalties being imposed on the Company. In addition, other international governmental authorities are considering similar types of legislative and regulatory requirements concerning protection of personal data.. <U+FEFF>. Additional laws and regulations require that the Company carefully manage its supply chain for the production, distribution and sale of goods. For instance, regulations under the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act and the U.K. Modern Slavery Act require attention to the employment practices of the Company's suppliers. Various regulations affect the packaging, labelling and shipment of the Company's products, including the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals which is applicable in many countries worldwide, regulations issued governing the safe storage and transportation of dangerous goods, and regulations issued by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, as well as similar foreign jurisdiction regulatory agencies. Failure by the Company to comply with any of these regulations or its inability to adequately predict the manner in which these regulations are interpreted and applied to the Company's business by the applicable enforcement agencies could have a materially adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Failure to maximize or to successfully assert the Company's intellectual property rights or infringement by the Company on the intellectual property rights of others could impact its competitiveness or otherwise adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The Company relies on trademark, trade secret protection, patent and copyright laws to protect its intellectual property rights. Although the Company maintains a global enforcement program to protect its intellectual property rights, there can be no assurance that these intellectual property rights will be maximized or that they can be successfully asserted. Trade secret protection, particularly for the Company's most valuable product formulation for the WD-40 Multi-Use Product, requires specific. 9. agreements, policies and procedures to assure the secrecy of information classified as a trade secret. If such agreements, policies and procedures are not effective to maintain the secrecy of the Company's trade secrets, the loss of trade secret protection could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition. There is a risk that the Company will not be able to obtain and perfect its own intellectual property rights or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions or acquired product lines. The Company cannot be certain that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future, and the Company could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions to defend its intellectual property rights. In addition, even if such rights are obtained in the U.S., it may be that the laws of some of the other countries in which the Company's products are or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, or they may be difficult to enforce. If other companies infringe the Company's intellectual property rights or take part in counterfeiting activities, they may dilute the value of the Company's brands in the marketplace, which could diminish the value that consumers associate with the Company's brands and harm its sales. The failure of the Company to protect or successfully assert its intellectual property rights or to protect its other proprietary information could make the Company less competitive and this could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. If the Company is found to have violated the trademark, copyright, patent or other intellectual property rights of others, such a finding could result in the need to cease the use of a trademark, trade secret, copyrighted work or patented invention in the Company's business and an obligation to pay a substantial amount for past infringement. It could also be necessary to pay a substantial amount in the future if the holders of such rights are willing to permit the Company to continue to use the intellectual property rights. Either having to cease use or pay such amounts could make the Company less competitive and could have a material adverse impact on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The Company's operating results and financial performance may not meet expectations which could adversely affect the Company's stock price.. <U+FEFF>. The Company cannot be sure that its operating results and financial performance, which include sales growth, net income, earnings per common share, gross margin and cash flows, will meet expectations. If the Company's assumptions and estimates are incorrect or do not come to fruition, or if the Company does not achieve all of its key goals or strategic initiatives, then the Company's actual performance could vary materially from its internal expectations and those of the market. Failure to meet or exceed these expectations could cause the market price of the Company's stock to decline. The Company's operating results and financial performance may be negatively influenced by a number of factors, many of which are discussed in this Item 1A \"Risk Factors\".. In addition, sales volume growth, whether due to acquisitions or internal growth, can place burdens on management resources and financial controls that, in turn, can have a negative impact on operating results and financial condition of the Company. To some extent, the Company plans its expense levels in anticipation of future revenues. If actual revenues fall short of these expectations, operating results may be adversely affected by reduced operating margins due to actual expense levels that are higher than might otherwise have been appropriate.. <U+FEFF>. Malfunctions of the critical information systems that the Company uses for the daily operations of its business, cyberattacks and privacy breaches could adversely affect the Company's ability to conduct business.. <U+FEFF>. To conduct its business, the Company relies extensively on information technology systems, networks and services, some of which are managed, hosted and provided by third-party service providers. The Company cannot guarantee that its security measures will prevent cyberattacks resulting in breaches of the Company's or its third-party service providers' databases and systems. Techniques used in these attacks change frequently and may be difficult to detect for periods of time. Although the Company has policies and procedures in place governing (i) the timely investigation of cybersecurity incidents, (ii) the timely disclosure of any related material nonpublic information resulting from a material cybersecurity incident, and (iii) the safeguarding against insider trading of directors, officers, and other corporate insiders between the period of investigation and the public disclosure of such an incident; cybersecurity incidents themselves, such as the release of sensitive data from the Company's databases and systems, could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The increasing number of information technology security threats and the development of more sophisticated cyberattacks, including ransomware, pose a potential risk to the security of the Company's information technology systems and networks, as well as to the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the Company's data. Further, such an incident could also materially increase the costs that the Company already incurs to protect against such risks.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, system failure, malfunction or loss of data that is housed in the Company's critical information systems could disrupt its ability to timely and accurately process transactions and produce key financial reports, including information on the Company's operating results, financial position and cash flows. The Company's information systems could be damaged or cease to function properly due to a number of other reasons as well, including catastrophic events and power outages. Although the Company has certain business continuity plans in place to address such service interruptions, there is no guarantee that these. 10. business continuity plans will provide alternative processes in a timely manner. As a result, the Company may experience interruptions in its ability to manage its daily operations and this could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The information system that the U.S. office uses for its business operations is a market specific application that is not widely used by other companies. This system supports two other regional offices outside the U.S. as well. The company that owns and supports this application may not be able to provide the same level of support as that of companies which own larger, more widely spread information systems. If the company that supports this application in the U.S. were to cease its operations or were unable to provide continued support for this application, it could adversely affect the Company's daily operations or its business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The Company faces competition in its markets which could lead to reduced sales and profitability.. <U+FEFF>. The Company encounters competition from similar and alternative products, many of which are produced and marketed by major national or multinational companies. In addition, the Company frequently discovers products in certain markets that are counterfeit reproductions of the Company's WD-40 products as well as products otherwise bearing an infringing trade dress. The availability of counterfeits and other infringing products, particularly in China, Russia and other emerging markets, could adversely impact the Company's sales and potentially damage the value and reputation of its brands.. The Company's products generally compete on the basis of product performance, brand recognition, price, quality or other benefits to consumers and meeting end users' needs. Advertising, promotions, merchandising and packaging also have a significant impact on consumer purchasing decisions. A newly introduced consumer product, whether improved or recently developed, usually encounters intense competition requiring substantial expenditures for advertising, sales and consumer promotion. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it normally requires continued advertising, promotional support and product improvements in order to maintain its relative market position.. <U+FEFF>. Some of the competitors for the Company's homecare and cleaning products are larger and have financial resources greater than those of the Company. These competitors may be able to spend more aggressively on advertising and promotional activities, introduce competing products more quickly and respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions than the Company.. <U+FEFF>. Competitive activity may require the Company to increase its investment in marketing or reduce its sales prices and this may lead to reduced profit margins,  a loss of market share or loss of distribution, each of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by the Company or the infringement of its products and brands will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Dependence on key customers could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The Company sells its products through a network of domestic and international mass retail, trade supply and consumer retailers as well as industrial distributors and suppliers. The retail industry has historically been the subject of consolidation, and as a result, the development of large chain stores has taken place. Today, the retail channel is comprised of several of these large chain stores that capture the bulk of the market share. Since many of the Company's customers have been part of consolidations in the retail industry, these limited customers account for a large percentage of the Company's net sales. Although the Company expects that a significant portion of its revenues will continue to be derived from this limited number of customers, there was no individual customer that contributed to more than 10% of the Company's consolidated net sales in fiscal year 2018. However, changes in the strategies of the Company's largest customers, including shelf simplification, a reduction in the number of brands they carry or a shift in shelf space to \"private label\" or competitors' products, may harm the Company's sales. The loss of, or reduction in, orders from any of the Company's most significant customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company's brand values, business, financial condition and results of operations. Large customers may seek price reductions, added support or promotional concessions. If the Company agrees to such customer demands and/or requests, it could negatively impact the Company's ability to maintain existing profit margins.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, the Company's business is based primarily upon individual sales orders, and the Company typically does not enter into long-term contracts with its customers. Accordingly, these customers could reduce their purchasing levels or cease buying products from the Company at any time and for any reason. The Company is also subject to changes in customer purchasing patterns or the level of promotional activities. These types of changes may result from changes in the manner in which customers purchase and manage inventory levels, or display and promote products within their stores. Other potential factors such as customer disputes regarding shipments, fees, merchandise condition or related matters may also impact operating results. If the. 11. Company ceases doing business with a significant customer or if sales of its products to a significant customer materially decrease, the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed.. <U+FEFF>. The Company may not successfully develop, introduce and /or establish new products and line extensions.. <U+FEFF>. The Company's future performance and growth depend, in part, on its ability to successfully develop, introduce and/or establish new products as both brand extensions and/or line extensions. The Company cannot be certain that it will successfully achieve those goals. The Company competes in several product categories where there are frequent introductions of new products and line extensions and such product introductions often require significant investment and support. The ability of the Company to understand end user needs and preferences is key to maintaining and improving the competitiveness of its product offerings. The development and introduction of new products, as well as the renovation of current products and product lines, require substantial and effective research, development and marketing expenditures, which the Company may be unable to recoup if the new or renovated products do not gain widespread market acceptance. There are inherent risks associated with new product development and marketing efforts, including product development or launch delays, product performance issues during development, changing regulatory frameworks that affect the new products in development and the availability of key raw materials included in such products. These inherent risks could result in the failure of new products and product line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance, additional costs resulting from failed product introductions and the Company not being first to market. As the Company continues to focus on innovation and renovation of its products, the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected in the event that the Company is not able to effectively develop and introduce new or renovated products and line or brand extensions.. <U+FEFF>. Goodwill and intangible assets are subject to impairment risk.. <U+FEFF>. In accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance on goodwill and intangibles, the Company assesses the potential impairment of its existing goodwill during the second quarter of each fiscal year and otherwise when events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment condition may exist. The Company also assesses its definite-lived intangible assets for potential impairment when events and circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable or its estimated remaining useful life may no longer be appropriate. Indicators such as underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, changes in the Company's strategy for its overall business or use of acquired assets, unexpected negative industry or economic trends, decline in the Company's stock price for a sustained period, decreased market capitalization relative to net book values, unanticipated technological change or competitive activities, loss of key distribution, change in consumer demand, loss of key personnel and acts by governments and courts may signal that an asset has become impaired.. <U+FEFF>. The assessment for possible impairment of the Company's goodwill and intangible assets requires management to make judgments on a number of significant estimates and assumptions, including macroeconomic conditions, overall category growth rates, sales growth rates, cost containment and margin expansion and expense levels for advertising and promotions and general overhead, all of which must be developed from a market participant standpoint. The Company may be required to record a significant charge in its consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of its goodwill or intangible assets is identified and this could negatively impact the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Changes in management estimates and assumptions as they relate to valuation of goodwill and intangible assets could affect the Company's financial condition or results of operations in the future.. <U+FEFF>. The Company may also divest of certain of its assets, businesses or brands that do not align with the Company's strategic initiatives. Any divestiture could negatively impact the profitability of the Company as a result of losses that may result from such a sale, the loss of sales and operating income or a decrease in cash flows subsequent to the divestiture. The Company may also be required to recognize impairment charges as a result of a divestiture.. <U+FEFF>. Changes in marketing distributor relationships that are not managed successfully by the Company could result in a disruption in the affected markets.. <U+FEFF>. The Company distributes its products throughout the world in one of two ways: the direct distribution model, in which products are sold directly by the Company to wholesalers and retailers in the U.S., Canada, Australia, China, the U.K. and a number of other countries, including those throughout Europe; and the marketing distributor model, in which products are sold to marketing distributors who in turn sell to wholesalers and retailers. The marketing distributor model is generally used in certain countries where the Company does not have direct Company-owned operations. Instead, the Company partners with local companies who perform the sales, marketing and distribution functions. The Company invests time and resources into these relationships. Should the Company's relationship with a marketing distributor change or terminate, the Company's sales within such marketing distributor's territory could be adversely impacted until such time as a suitable replacement could be found and the Company's key marketing strategies are implemented. There is a risk that changes in such marketing distributor relationships, including changes in key marketing distributor personnel, that are not managed successfully, could result in a disruption in the affected markets and that such disruption could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results. 12. of operations. Additionally, in some countries, local laws may require substantial payments to terminate existing marketing distributor relationships, which could also have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Product liability claims and other litigation and/or regulatory action could adversely affect the Company's sales and operating results.. <U+FEFF>. While the Company makes every effort to ensure that the products it develops and markets are safe for consumers, the use of the Company's products may expose the Company to liability claims resulting from such use. Claims could be based on allegations that, among other things, the Company's products contain contaminants, provide inadequate instructions regarding their use or inadequate warnings concerning their use or interactions with other substances. Product liability claims could result in negative publicity that could harm the Company's sales and operating results. The Company maintains product liability insurance that it believes will be adequate to protect the Company from material loss attributable to such claims but the extent of such loss could exceed available limits of insurance or could arise out of circumstances under which such insurance coverage would be unavailable. Other business activities of the Company may also expose the Company to litigation risks, including risks that may not be covered by insurance such as contract disputes. If successful claims are asserted by third parties against the Company for uninsured liabilities or liabilities in excess of applicable limits of insurance coverage, the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, if one of the Company's products was determined to be defective, the Company could be required to recall the product, which could result in adverse publicity, loss of revenues and significant expenses.. <U+FEFF>. Additionally, the Company's products may be associated with competitor products or other products in the same category, which may be alleged to have caused harm to consumers. As a result of this association, the Company may be named in unwarranted legal actions. The potential costs to defend such claims may materially affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Resolution of income tax matters may impact the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company's effective income tax rate and in evaluating tax positions, particularly those related to uncertain tax positions. The Company provides for uncertain tax positions when such tax positions do not meet the recognition thresholds or measurement standards prescribed by the accounting standard for uncertain tax positions. Changes in uncertain tax positions or other adjustments resulting from tax audits and settlements with taxing authorities, including related interest and penalties, impact the Company's effective tax rate. When particular tax matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. Favorable resolution of such matters could be recognized as a reduction to the Company's effective tax rate in the year of resolution. Unfavorable resolution of any tax matter could increase the Company's effective tax rate. Any resolution of a tax matter may require the adjustment of tax assets or tax liabilities or the use of cash in the year of resolution. For additional information on such matters, see Part IV  -  Item 15, \"Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules\" Note 12  -  Income Taxes, included in this report.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, changes in tax rules may materially affect, either adversely or favorably, the Company's future financial results or the way management conducts its business. For example, on December 22, 2017 the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" (the \"Tax Act\") was signed into law and became effective beginning January 1, 2018. The Tax Act significantly changed U.S. tax law and tax rates, as well as mandated the application of a one-time \"toll tax\" on unremitted foreign earnings, among other things. During fiscal year 2018, the Company recorded provisional amounts for the income tax effects of these changes in tax law and tax rates. It is possible that items reflected as provisional amounts may change materially following review of historical records, refinement of calculations, modifications of assumptions and further interpretation of the Tax Act based on U.S. Treasury regulations and guidance from the Internal Revenue Service and state tax authorities. In addition, the Company reevaluated its indefinite reinvestment assertion for its foreign subsidiaries during fiscal year 2018. In May 2018, the Company completed this reevaluation and no longer considers unremitted foreign earnings of any of its subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested. For additional information on the Tax Act, the impact of potential changes in provisional amounts, and the change in indefinite reinvestment assertions for certain foreign subsidiaries , see Part IV  -  Item 15, \"Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules\" Note 12  -  Income Taxes, included in this report.. <U+FEFF>. Although many impacts of the Tax Act are favorable for the Company both in the near term and long term, the Tax Act also authorizes the Treasury Department to issue regulations with respect to the new provisions. The Company cannot predict how the changes in the Tax Act, regulations, or other guidance issued under it, including conforming or non-conforming state tax rules, might affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, there can be no assurance that U.S. tax laws, including the corporate income tax rate, will not undergo significant additional changes in the near future.. <U+FEFF>. 13. The Company may not have sufficient cash to service its indebtedness or to pay cash dividends.. <U+FEFF>. The Company's debt consists of fixed rate senior notes and a revolving credit facility. Management has used the proceeds of the revolving credit facility primarily for stock repurchases. In order to service such debt, the Company is required to use its income from operations to make interest and principal payments required by the terms of its borrowing agreements. In addition, the Company's borrowing agreements include covenants to maintain certain financial ratios and to comply with other financial terms, conditions and covenants. Also, the Company has historically paid out a large part of its earnings to stockholders in the form of regular quarterly cash dividends.. <U+FEFF>. The Company may incur substantial debt in the future for acquisitions or other general business or business development activities. In addition, the Company may continue to use available cash balances to execute share repurchases under approved share buy-back plans. To the extent that the Company is required to seek additional financing to support certain of these activities, such financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to the Company. If the Company is unable to obtain such financing or to service its existing or future debt with its operating income, or if available cash balances are affected by future business performance, liquidity, capital needs, alternative investment opportunities or debt covenants, the Company could be required to reduce, suspend or eliminate its dividend payments to its stockholders.. <U+FEFF>. The Company's business development activities may not be successful.. <U+FEFF>. The Company may increase growth through business development activities such as acquisitions, joint ventures, licensing and/or other strategic partnerships in the U.S. and internationally. However, if the Company is not able to identify, acquire and successfully integrate acquired products or companies or successfully manage joint ventures or other strategic partnerships, the Company may not be able to maximize these opportunities. The failure to properly manage business development activities because of difficulties in the assimilation of operations and products, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the loss of key employees or other factors could materially adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company's business development activities will be profitable at their inception or that they will achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made.. <U+FEFF>. Future acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic partnerships could also result in the incurrence of debt, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, unanticipated regulatory complications and/or increased operating expenses, all of which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition. In addition, to the extent that the economic benefits associated with any of the Company's business development activities diminish in the future, the Company may be required to record impairments to goodwill, intangible assets or other assets associated with such activities, which could also adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. <U+FEFF>"
