[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following factors, together with all of the other information included in this report, in evaluating our company and our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected, and the value of our stock could decline. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. As such, you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties.. Risks Related to Our Business. The requirements of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the \"ACA\"), or its modification, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We believe the ACA, or its modification, will continue to bring about significant changes to the American health care system. The costs of funding the ACA, or its modification, may continue to be financed, in part, from substantial additional fees and taxes on us and other health insurers, health plans and individuals, as well as reductions in certain levels of payments to us and other health plans under Medicare.. The Medicaid expansion provisions remain optional for states. Some states have decided not to participate in the Medicaid expansion, and states currently participating may choose not to participate in the future. Congress may also withhold the funding necessary to operate the ACA, or its modification. Given the breadth of possible changes and the uncertainties of interpretation, implementation and timing of these changes, which we expect to occur over the next several years, the ACA, or any modification, could change the way we do business, potentially affecting our pricing, benefit design, product mix, geographic mix and distribution channels.. New or amended regulations and policies, as well as future legislative changes, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows by:. • reducing the federal matching payments to state Medicaid programs;. • restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments;. • restricting our ability to expand into new markets;. • increasing our medical and administrative costs;. • lowering our Medicare payment rates and/or increasing our expenses associated with the non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments;. • encouraging states to contract with organizations that are not subject to the annual premium-based health insurance industry assessment imposed by the ACA (the \"ACA industry fee\") for their Medicaid programs; and. • encouraging states to integrate Medicare and Medicaid using a limited number of health plans or a fee for service model.. In addition, the response of other companies to these policy, regulatory and legislative changes and adjustments to their offerings, if any, could have a meaningful effect in the health care markets.. The ACA included a number of changes that have affected the way plans operate, such as reduced Medicare premium rates, minimum MLR and other provisions.. Reduced Medicare Premium Rates. In April 2017, the CMS final call letter revised the proposed 2018 MA and Part D rates. We estimate the 2018 rates, as compared with 2017, will decrease slightly, excluding Medicare coding trends and the return of the ACA industry fee.. 32. Table of Contents. Minimum Medical Loss Ratio. Beginning in 2014, the ACA established a minimum MLR for MA and Part D plans, requiring plans to spend not less than 85% of premiums on medical and pharmacy benefits. The rules implementing the minimum MLR impose financial and other penalties for failing to achieve the minimum MLR, including requirements to refund to CMS shortfalls in amounts spent on medical benefits and termination of a plan's MA contract for prolonged failure to achieve the minimum MLR. The MLR prescribed by HHS differs from the MLR calculation under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (\"GAAP\") and is determined by adding a plan's spending for clinical services, prescription drugs and other direct patient benefits, plus its total spending on quality improvement activities and dividing the total by earned premiums (after subtracting specific identified taxes and other fees). These provisions have not had a material effect on our results of operations in 2015, 2016 or 2017.. Other Provisions. The ACA imposed certain new taxes and fees, including limitations on the amount of compensation that is tax deductible, as well as the ACA industry fee on health insurers, which began in 2014. The ACA imposed certain new taxes and fees, including limitations on the amount of compensation that is tax deductible, as well as an annual premium-based health insurance industry assessment (the \"ACA industry fee\") on health insurers, which began in 2014. The total ACA industry fee levied on the health insurance industry was $11.3 billion in both 2015 and 2016, increasing to $14.3 billion in 2018. After 2018, the ACA industry fee increases according to an index based on net premium growth. The assessment is being levied on certain health insurers that provide insurance in the assessment year, and is allocated to health insurers based on each health insurer's share of net premiums for all U.S health insurers in the year preceding the assessment. The ACA industry fee is not deductible for income tax purposes, which has significantly increased our effective income tax rate. In December 2015, President Obama signed the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016 which, among other provisions, included a one-year moratorium on the ACA industry fee for 2017. While the ACA industry fee will be assessed in 2018, the continuing resolution approved in January 2018 provides for an additional one-year moratorium for 2019 for the ACA industry fee. The re-imposition of the ACA industry fee in 2018 and any future increases to the ACA industry fee could increase our tax rates and could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The health reforms in the ACA allow, but do not require, states to expand eligibility for Medicaid programs. In addition, the uncertainty of federal matching funds for the state Medicaid programs, including the Medicaid expansion populations, may make states more likely to further delay expanding Medicaid eligibility. As a result, the effects of any potential future expansions and future federal financing are uncertain, making it difficult to determine whether the net effect of the ACA, or any modification, will be positive or negative for our Medicaid business.. Any failure by us to manage acquisitions, expansions, divestitures or other significant transactions successfully may have a material adverse effect on our quality scores, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our membership has grown substantially due to acquisitions, such as that of Universal American Corp. (\"Universal American\") in 2017, geographic expansions and organic growth, such as the statewide expansion of Medicaid in Missouri. We may not be successful in enhancing our infrastructure to support this continued growth, and delays in infrastructure improvements may have a material adverse effect on our quality scores, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, due to the substantial initial costs related to acquisitions and expansions, such growth could adversely affect our short-term profitability and liquidity.. As part of our growth strategy, we identify potential acquisition targets, bid and negotiate acquisition terms, work with regulators to receive regulatory approval for the acquisition and once the transaction is closed, we must integrate the acquisition into our operations.. Once an attractive acquisition target is identified, we may not be successful in bidding against competitors. Even if we are successful in bidding against competitors, we may not be able to obtain the regulatory approval from federal and state agencies required to complete the acquisition. Depending on the transaction size, we may not be able to obtain appropriate financing. We may not be able to comply with the regulatory requirements necessary for approval of the acquisition or state regulators may give preference to competing offers made by locally-owned entities, competitors with higher quality scores or not-for-profit entities.. Once acquired, we may have difficulties integrating the businesses within our existing operations, due to factors such as:. • new associates who must become familiar with our operations and company culture;. 33. Table of Contents. • acquired provider networks that operate on different terms than our existing networks and whose contracts may need to be renegotiated;. • existing members who decide to switch to another health care plan;. • disparate administrative and information technology systems; and. • difficulties implementing our operations strategy to operate the acquired businesses profitably.. As a result, our acquired businesses may not perform as we anticipated, or in line with our existing businesses. In addition, if the expected future profitability of the acquired business declines, we may need to write down or incur impairment charges of the acquired assets. In the future, we may incur material expenses in connection with the integration and execution of acquisitions, expansions, and other significant transactions.. Furthermore, we may incur significant transaction expenses in connection with a potential acquisition or expansion opportunity that is not successful. If we are unable to effectively execute our acquisition strategy or integrate acquired businesses, our future growth may suffer and our profitability may decrease.. Our rate of expansion into other geographic areas may also be inhibited by factors such as:. • the time and costs associated with obtaining the necessary licenses and approvals to operate;. • lower quality scores compared to our competitors;. • participation in fewer lines of business compared to our competitors;. • our inability to develop a network of physicians, hospitals and other health care providers that meets our requirements and those of government regulators;. • delays in the procurement,  renewal or implementation of Medicaid or similar programs in new or existing states;. • CMS or state contract provisions regarding quality measures, such as CMS Star Ratings;. • competition, which increases the cost of recruiting members;. • the cost of providing health care services in those areas;. • demographics and population density; and. • applicable state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of capital and surplus.. In any program start-up, acquisition, expansion or re-bid, the implementation of the contract, as designed, may be affected by factors beyond our control. These include political considerations, network development, contract appeals, incumbent Medicaid contractors, participation in other lines of business, membership assignment (allocation of members who do not self-select), errors in the bidding process, changes to the program design or implementation timing, difficulties experienced by other private vendors involved in the implementation, such as enrollment brokers, and noncompliance with contractual requirements with which we do not yet have experience and similar risks. As a result, our business, particularly plans for expansion or increased membership levels, could be negatively affected.. In addition, when making award determinations and evaluating proposed acquisitions and expansions, regulators frequently consider the plan's historical regulatory compliance, litigation and reputation and we are required to disclose material investigations and litigation, including in some cases investigations and litigation that occurred in the past. As a result of our previous federal and state investigations, stockholder and derivative litigation, the restatement during 2009 of our previously issued financial statements and related matters, and the criminal trial of certain of our former executives and employees that concluded in the second quarter of 2013, we have been, and may continue to be, the subject of negative publicity. In addition, the Iowa Medicaid bid protest, and the subsequent ruling to exclude the Company from the program has resulted in negative publicity. Continuing negative publicity and other negative perceptions regarding these matters may adversely affect our ability to grow.. If we are unable to estimate and manage medical benefits expense effectively, our profitability likely will be reduced or we could become unprofitable.. Our profitability depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to estimate and effectively manage our costs related to the provision of health care services. Relatively small changes in the ratio of our expenses related to health care services to the premiums we receive (the \"medical benefits ratio\" or \"MBR\") can create significant changes in our financial results. Many aspects of the managed care business are not predictable, and estimating medical benefits expense is a continuous process, which depends on the information available to us and our ability to utilize such information. Factors that may cause medical benefits expense to exceed our estimates include, but are not limited to:. 34. Table of Contents. • the addition of new members, whether by acquisition, new enrollment, program startup or expansion (including geographic expansion), whose risk profiles are uncertain or unknown and for whom initiatives to manage their care take longer than expected;. • an increase in the cost of health care services and supplies, including pharmaceuticals, whether as a result of the introduction of new products or technologies, inflation or otherwise;. • the performance of our pharmaceutical benefit manager in managing our pharmaceutical costs;. • higher-than-expected utilization of health care services;. • contractual provisions related to continuity of care for new members;. • contractual provisions or regulatory requirements restricting the use and design of medical expense initiatives, including the ability to control the pharmaceutical formulary in Medicaid programs;. • periodic renegotiation of hospital, physician and/or other provider contracts;. • the occurrence of catastrophes, natural disasters, epidemics, pandemics, terrorism or bio-terrorism;. • changes in the demographics of our members and medical trends affecting them;. • challenges in implementing medical expense cost control initiatives, especially during the first year of a new Medicaid program;. • new mandated benefits, increased mandated provider reimbursement rates or other changes in health care laws, regulations, public policy and/or practices;. • emerging changes in the economy;. • changes in members' behavior and health care utilization patterns;. • provider billing practices; and. • changes in the fee schedules, rate design, and reimbursement structure for health care services.. The factors and assumptions that are used to develop our estimates of costs, including medical benefits expense, inherently are subject to greater variability when there is more limited experience or information available to us, or the state or federal client, such as when we commence operations in a new state or region or commence participation in a new program. In many cases, the degree of our ability to accurately estimate medical benefits expense may not be known until we have sufficient experience and more complete information.  For example, levels of plan utilization and members' use of medical services, provider claims submissions, our payment processes and other factors can result in identifiable patterns emerging only following the passage of a significant period of time after the occurrence of the underlying causes of deviations from our assumptions. If our medical benefits expense increases and we are unable to manage these medical costs effectively in the future, our profits would likely be reduced or we may not remain profitable, which would also affect our liquidity, cash flows and our ability to comply with statutory requirements.. Our medical benefits expense may exceed our estimates or our regulators' actuarial pricing assumptions, and we may be unable to adjust the premiums we receive under our current contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Assumptions and estimates are utilized in establishing premium deficiency reserves.  For example, we have established a premium deficiency reserve of $45.6 million in connection with the expanded Illinois Medicaid program.  If our assumptions in establishing reserves are inconsistent with actual experience, our reserves may be inadequate to pay medical costs.  We may be required to increase our premium deficiency reserve, or establish new premium deficiency reserves in connection with other contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our MA and PDP plans, as well as certain of our Medicaid plans, are subject to a minimum MLR, which requires health plans to spend not less than a certain percentage of premiums on medical benefits. If a minimum MLR is not met, then we could be required to refund a portion of our premiums back to the state or CMS, as applicable.. In addition, there are sometimes wide variations in the established rates per member in both our Medicaid and Medicare lines of business. For instance, the rates we receive for a Supplemental Security Income (\"SSI\") member are generally significantly higher than for a non-SSI member who is otherwise similarly situated. As the composition of our membership base changes as the result of programmatic, competitive, regulatory, benefit design, economic or other changes; there is a corresponding change to our premium revenue, costs and margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Some provider contracts are directly tied to state Medicaid or Medicare fee schedules, which the state or CMS, respectively, may increase without granting a corresponding increase in premiums to us. We have experienced similar types of adjustments in states in which we operate. Unless such adjustments are mitigated by an increase in premiums, or if this were to occur in any more of the states in which we operate, our profitability will be negatively affected.. 35. Table of Contents. Also, in some rural areas, it is difficult to maintain a provider network sufficient to meet regulatory requirements. In situations where we have a deficiency in our provider network, regulators require us to allow members to obtain care from out-of-network providers at no additional cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage medical benefits expenses. In some states, with respect to certain services, the amount that the health plan must pay to out-of-network providers for services provided to our members is defined by law or regulation, but in certain instances it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that is not clearly translatable into dollar terms. Out-of-network providers may believe they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with the health plan. The uncertainty of the amount to pay and the possibility of subsequent adjustments of the payment could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Although we maintain reinsurance to protect us against certain severe or catastrophic medical claims, we cannot assure that such reinsurance coverage currently is or will be adequate or available to us in the future or that the cost of such reinsurance will not limit our ability to obtain it.. Failure to maintain satisfactory quality and service measures could negatively affect our premium rates, subject us to penalties, limit or reduce our membership, impede our ability to compete for new business in existing or new markets or result in the termination of our contracts, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, rate of growth and results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Quality scores are used by certain agencies to establish premium rates or, in the case of CMS, to pay bonuses to MA plans that enable high scoring plans to offer enhanced health benefits, which are attractive to members.. Certain provisions in the ACA provide additional Medicare revenue related to the achievement of higher Star Ratings that can be used to offer more attractive benefit packages to members and/or achieve higher profit margins. In addition, plans with Star Ratings of 4.0 or higher are eligible for year-round open enrollment, whereas plans with lower Star Ratings have more restrictions on enrollment criteria and timing. Part C or Part D Medicare plans with Star Ratings of less than three stars for three consecutive years are denoted as \"low performing\" plans on the CMS website and in the CMS \"Medicare and You\" handbook. In addition, CMS could exercise its authority to terminate the MA and PDP contracts for plans rated below three stars for three consecutive years for the plan year 2020.  As a result, plans that achieve higher Star Ratings may have a competitive advantage over plans with lower Star Ratings.. CMS's current quality measurement methodology does not appropriately account for socio-economic determinants of health. Because we have a greater percentage of lower-income members than average, we may be unable to achieve or maintain a 4.0 Star Rating for some or all of our plans without a legislative or regulatory adjustment to the quality measurement methodology. Though various regulatory and legislative solutions have been proposed, we continue to work with our legislative and regulatory partners to ensure this issue is adequately addressed. However, our efforts may not be successful, and we could continue to have plans with Star Ratings lower than our competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our membership and profitability of our MA and PDP lines of business.. In October 2017, CMS announced 2018 MA and PDP Star Ratings. Three of our 16 active MA contracts received an overall rating of 4.0 stars or higher and served approximately 38.7% of our December 31, 2017 MA membership, including contracts serving certain of our members in Florida, Maine, New York and Texas.  Four of our MA contracts received an overall rating of 3.5 stars and served approximately 11.7% of our December 31, 2017 MA membership, including contracts serving certain of our members in Arizona, California, New Jersey, and New York. Eight of our MA contracts received an overall rating of 3.0 stars, while we have one MA plan that received an overall score of 2.5 stars serving our members in Hawaii and Louisiana.. Our MA plan serving Arkansas, Illinois, Mississippi, South Carolina and Tennessee received a score of 2.5 stars for its Part C operations for 2017 and 2018 and could be subject to termination by CMS if the score does not improve for 2019. Additionally, our PDP plan received a score of 2.5 stars for 2017 and 2018 and could subject the contract to termination by CMS if the score does not improve for 2019.. In certain state Medicaid programs, plans that do not meet applicable quality and service measures can be required to refund premiums previously received, may not receive premiums withheld, may not be able to earn quality bonuses, may be required to pay penalties or may be subject to enrollment limitations, including suspension of auto assignment of members, or termination of the contract. In addition, if the state determines that a health plan has failed to meet the contractual requirements for quality measures, these contracts may be subject to termination or other remedies, such as liquidated damages, at the discretion of the state. We are unable to predict what actions a state may take, if any, when assessing our contractual performance.. 36. Table of Contents. In addition, lower quality scores compared to our competitors may adversely affect our ability to attract members and obtain regulatory approval for acquisitions or expansions or succeed in competitive bidding situations. As a result, lower quality scores compared to our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, rate of growth, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our encounter data may be inaccurate or incomplete, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs.. Our contracts require the submission of complete and correct encounter data. The accurate and timely reporting of encounter data is increasingly important to the success of our programs because more states are using encounter data to determine compliance with performance standards and to set premium rates.  We have expended and may continue to expend additional effort and incur significant additional costs to collect or correct inaccurate or incomplete encounter data and have been, and continue to be exposed to, operating sanctions and financial fines and penalties for noncompliance. In some instances, our government clients have established retroactive requirements for the encounter data we must submit. There also may be periods of time in which we are unable to meet existing requirements. In either case, it may be prohibitively expensive or impossible for us to collect or reconstruct this historical data.. We have experienced challenges in obtaining complete and accurate encounter data, due to difficulties with providers and third-party vendors submitting claims in a timely fashion in the proper format, and with state agencies in coordinating such submissions. As states increase their reliance on encounter data, these difficulties could adversely affect the premium rates we receive and how membership is assigned to us and subject us to financial penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and our ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs.. We rely on a number of third parties, and failure of any one of the third parties to perform in accordance with our contracts or applicable law could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We have determined, based on an evaluation of factors, including cost, compliance, quality and procurement success, that it is more efficient to use third parties for certain functions and services. As a result, we have contracted with a number of third parties to provide significant operational support including, but not limited to, pharmacy benefit management for our members as well as certain enrollment, billing, call center, benefit administration and claims processing functions, sales and marketing, reinsurance, quality improvement efforts and certain aspects of utilization management. We have limited ability to control the performance of these third parties. If a third party provides services that we are required to provide under a contract with a government client, we are responsible for such performance and will be held accountable by the government client for any failure of performance by our vendors. Significant failure by a third party to perform in accordance with the terms of our contracts or applicable law could subject us to fines or other sanctions or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, upon termination of a third party contract, we may encounter difficulties in replacing the third party on favorable terms, transitioning services to another vendor, or in assuming those responsibilities ourselves, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, quality scores and results of operations. Further, we rely on state-operated systems and sub-contractors to qualify and assign eligible members into our health plan. Ineffectiveness of these state operations and sub-contractors can have a material adverse effect on our enrollment.. Our Medicaid operations are concentrated in a limited number of states. Loss of a material contract, insufficient premium rates, delayed payment of earned premiums, refund of overpayments or decreased membership and other factors may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our concentration of Medicaid operations in a limited number of states could cause our revenue, profitability or cash flow to change suddenly and unexpectedly as a result of insufficient premium rates, payment delays, refund of overpayments, loss of a material contract, legislative actions, changes in Medicaid eligibility methodologies, including recertification requirements for eligibility, increased competition, catastrophic claims, epidemics, pandemics, unexpected increases in utilization, advances in medical technology and pharmaceutical therapies, difficulties in managing provider costs, general economic conditions and similar factors in those states. Our inability to continue to operate in any of these states or a significant change in the nature of our existing operations, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Unfavorable changes in health care or other benefit costs or reimbursement rates or increased competition in these states could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operating results.. 37. Table of Contents. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our Medicaid operations in Florida and Kentucky each accounted for greater than 10% of our consolidated premium revenue, net of premium taxes. These customers accounted for contracts that have terms of between one and three years with varying expiration dates.. Our Medicaid contracts are generally intended to run for one to three years and in some cases may be extended for additional years if the state or other sponsoring agency elects to do so. When our state contracts expire, they may be opened for bidding by competing health care plans. For example, the State of Florida is in the process of re-procuring Medicaid services for a five-year term commencing January 1, 2019. There is no guarantee that our contracts will be renewed or extended or, if renewed or extended, on what terms. Further, our contracts with the states are subject to cancellation by the state after a short notice period in the event of unavailability of state funds. Our contracts could also be terminated if we fail to perform in accordance with the standards set by state regulatory agencies. If any of our contracts are terminated, not renewed or extended, renewed or extended on less favorable terms or not renewed or extended on a timely basis or if an increased number of competitors were awarded contracts in these states, our business will suffer, and our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially affected.. Most of our Medicaid revenues under these contracts are generated by premiums consisting of fixed monthly payments per member and supplemental payments for other services such as maternity deliveries, depending on the type of member in our plans. The payments are generally set based on an estimation of the medical costs using actuarially sound methods based on historical data, factors and assumptions. When we commence operations in a new state or region or commence participation in a new program, the factors and assumptions used to develop premiums and premium rates are subject to greater variability as there is limited experience or information available to us and the state. Actual experience could differ from the assumptions used in the premium-setting process, which could result in premiums being insufficient to cover our medical benefits expense.. In addition, our premium revenues remain subject to reconciliation and recoupment for many years. The refund of premium overpayment to the government customer could be significant and would reduce our premium revenue in the year that the repayment obligation is identified.. State governments generally are experiencing tight budgetary conditions within their Medicaid programs. As a result, government agencies with which we contract may seek funding alternatives, which may result in reductions in funding, or changes to program design, including member eligibility and benefits for their Medicaid programs. For example, the State of Kentucky expects to implement new premium and work requirements for certain members to maintain their eligibility for the Medicaid program beginning on July 1, 2018, which may reduce our Medicaid membership in Kentucky. If any state in which we operate were to decrease premiums paid to us for these reasons or any other reason, decrease members eligible to participate in the programs, reduce the benefits offered by the programs, or pay us less than the amount necessary to keep pace with our cost trends, or delay increases in premiums, these could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We have experienced rate decreases and rate increase delays in the past and may do so in the future. Economic conditions affecting state governments and agencies could also result in delays in receiving premium payments. If there is a significant delay in our receipt of premiums to pay health benefit costs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity.. A significant percentage of our Medicaid plan enrollment results from mandatory enrollment in Medicaid managed care plans. States may mandate that certain types of Medicaid beneficiaries enroll in Medicaid managed care through CMS-approved state plan amendments or, for certain groups, through federal waivers or demonstrations. Waivers and programs under demonstrations are generally approved for two- to five-year periods and can be renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies and the waiver request is approved or renewed by CMS. We have no control over this renewal process. If a state in which we operate does not mandate managed care enrollment in its state plan or does not renew an existing managed care waiver, our membership would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We derive a significant portion of our cash flow and gross margin from our PDP operations, for which we submit annual bids for participation. The results of our bids could materially affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. A significant portion of our PDP membership is obtained from the auto-assignment of beneficiaries in CMS-designated regions where our PDP premium bids are below benchmarks of other plans' bids. In general, our premium bids are based on assumptions regarding PDP membership, utilization, drug costs, drug rebates and other factors for each region. Our 2018 PDP bids resulted in one of our basic plans being below the benchmarks in 25 of the 34 CMS regions, and within the de minimis range in five other regions, compared with our 2017 bids, in which we were below the benchmarks in 30 of the 34 CMS regions, and within the de minimis range in three other regions. For those regions in which we are within the de minimis range, we will not be eligible to have new members auto-assigned to us, but we will not lose our existing auto-assigned membership.. 38. Table of Contents. If our future Part D premium bids are not below the CMS benchmarks, we risk losing PDP members who were previously assigned to us and we may not have additional PDP members auto-assigned to us, which could materially reduce our revenue and profits.. If our actual costs of providing prescription drugs are higher than our estimated costs of providing prescription drugs when we provided our bids to CMS, our funds receivable from CMS could be higher than we anticipated, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and liquidity.. We may not be able to generate or access sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness or successfully secure alternatives to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $1.2 billion in aggregate principal amount of total indebtedness outstanding primarily consisting of $1.2 billion senior notes due 2025 (the \"Senior Notes\"). Additionally, we had $1.0 billion available for borrowing under our 2016 Revolving Credit Facility (the \"Credit Agreement\"). Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our and our subsidiaries' financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. As a result, we may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities or to access the cash flows of our subsidiaries in an amount sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes and the Credit Agreement. We cannot assure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that financing sources will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes and the Credit Agreement, or to fund our other liquidity needs.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments and the indenture that governs the Senior Notes may restrict us from adopting some or all of these alternatives. If we are unable to pay our indebtedness on time, it could result in the acceleration of our indebtedness and materially adversely affect us.. Future changes in health care laws present challenges for our business that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Future changes in, or interpretations to, existing health care laws or regulations, or the enactment of new laws or the issuance of new regulations could materially reduce our revenue and/or profitability by, among other things:. • imposing additional license, registration and/or capital requirements;. • increasing our administrative and other costs;. • requiring us to change our operating structure;. • requiring significant additional reporting and technological capabilities;. • imposing additional fees and taxes, which cannot be offset by increased premium revenue;. • increasing mandated benefits, such as the proposed mental health parity regulation;. • further limiting our ability to engage in intra-company transactions with our affiliates and subsidiaries;. • restricting our revenue and enrollment growth;. • requiring us to restructure our relationships with providers; and. • requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems.. On May 6, 2016, CMS published regulations that overhauled Medicaid managed care requirements. These regulations include requirements that state Medicaid programs evaluate network adequacy standards and impose a requirement of managed care organizations (\"MCO\") to report MLRs annually to states, as well as a requirement that states set MCO rates to reasonably achieve an MLR of greater than 85% as long as the capitation rates are actuarially sound. Additionally, these regulations expand federal financial participation reimbursement opportunities related to members with behavioral (mental) health issues who receive short term services in an alternative mental disease institution and outline requirements for value-based provider contracting.  Under the regulations, the states may also be tasked with developing and publicizing plan quality rating results.   The degree of federal oversight in implementing these regulations is uncertain, and the states may retain substantial flexibility. 39. Table of Contents. in designing their Medicaid programs. Implementation or lack of implementation by CMS and the state Medicaid agencies of these regulations may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Requirements relating to increased plan information disclosure, expedited appeals and grievance procedures, third party review of certain medical decisions, health plan liability, access to specialists, \"clean claim\" (a claim for which no additional information is needed), payment methodologies and timing, utilization of mail order pharmacy, administrative simplification, mandatory network inclusion of certain providers, mandated increases in provider reimbursement rates, physician collective bargaining rights, centralized credentialing and confidentiality of medical records either have been enacted or are under consideration. Changes in state law, regulations and rules also may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 was enacted in April 2015, which, among other things, extended the Special Needs Program through 2018. On January 22, 2018, CHIP funding was extended for six years as part of a broader continuing resolution to fund the federal government. In addition, the resolution continued the enhanced federal match rate for CHIP established by the ACA initially, but reduced the rate over time. The resolution also extended the requirement for states to maintain coverage for children from 2019 through 2023, but after October 1, 2019, the requirement is limited to children in families with incomes at or below 300% of the federal poverty level. On February 9, 2018, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 was enacted, which extended CHIP for an additional four years, until 2027, and permanently reauthorized MA special needs plans but imposed additional requirements for care coordination and integration of long-term services and supports. The funding of the CHIPs and Special Needs Programs by the federal government may be limited further, and eligibility for those programs may also be further restricted. If these programs are further modified or the funding further restricted, states could cease operating these programs, or limit their eligibility or benefits, or impose new requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, cash flow, membership and profitability.. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 also added additional flexibility to how ACOs can operate and accelerated the timing of the closure of the Part D \"coverage gap\" (i.e., the dollar threshold at which an individual has to pay full price for his or her medications).  As a result, Part D beneficiaries' co-pays will be reduced to 25% of prescription costs in 2019, instead of that reduction occurring in 2020 under prior law.  These changes, and other future changes to federal and state health care laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We encounter significant competition for program participation, members, network providers, key personnel and sales personnel and our failure to compete successfully may limit our ability to increase or maintain membership in the markets we serve, or have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects and results of operations.. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The criteria and scoring of the criteria used to award participation in certain government programs, such as Medicaid and CHIP, are subject to substantial discretion and vary greatly among them. Some of our competitors are more established in the insurance and health care industries, with larger market share, greater financial resources and better quality scores than we have in some markets. We also operate in, and may attempt to acquire business in, programs or markets in which premiums are determined on the basis of a competitive premium bidding process. In these programs or markets, funding levels established by bidders with significantly different cost structures, target profitability margins or aggressive bidding strategies could negatively affect our ability to maintain or acquire profitable businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Regulatory reform or other initiatives may bring additional competitors into our markets. Regulators may prefer companies that operate in lines of business in which we do not operate when we bid on new business or renewals of existing business, which may cause our bid or renewal to be unsuccessful.. We compete for members principally on the basis of size and quality of provider network, benefits provided and quality of service. We may not be able to develop innovative products and services that are attractive to members. We cannot be sure that we will continue to remain competitive, nor can we be sure that we will be able to successfully retain or acquire members for our products and services at current levels of profitability.. In addition, we compete with other health plans to contract with hospitals, physicians, pharmacies and other providers for inclusion in our networks that serve government program beneficiaries. We believe providers select plans in which they participate based on several criteria including reimbursement rates, timeliness and accuracy of claims payment, potential to deliver new patient volume and/or retain existing patients, effectiveness of resolution of calls and complaints and other factors. We cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully attract or retain providers under acceptable contract terms to maintain a competitive network in the geographic areas we serve.. 40. Table of Contents. We are dependent on our senior management and we may not be able retain our senior management or attract and retain other qualified management, clinical and commercial personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel in the managed care and health care industry. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future modify our senior management structure, which could affect our retention of employees and management. If we are not able to attract and retain necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy. In particular, if we lose any members of our senior management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements, and our business may be harmed as a result.. Our MA plans are sold primarily through our sales personnel, who frequently work with independent brokers, consultants and agents who assist in the production and servicing of business. The independent brokers, consultants and agents generally are not dedicated to us exclusively and may also recommend and/or market health care benefit products of our competitors, and we must compete intensely for their services and allegiance. Our sales could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract or retain sales personnel and third-party brokers, consultants and agents or if we do not adequately provide support, training and education to this sales network regarding our product portfolio, which is complex, or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels.. To the extent that competition intensifies in any market that we serve, our ability to retain or increase members and providers, maintain or increase our revenue growth and control medical cost trends and/or our pricing flexibility may be adversely affected. Failure to compete successfully in the markets we serve may have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects and results of operations.. Risk-adjustment payment systems make our revenue and results of operations more difficult to estimate and could result in retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Most of our government customers employ risk-adjustment models to determine the premium amount they pay for each member. This model pays more for members with predictably higher costs according to the health status of each beneficiary enrolled. Premium payments are generally established at fixed intervals according to the contract terms and then adjusted on a retroactive basis. We reassess the estimates of the risk adjustment settlements each reporting period and any resulting adjustments are made to premium revenue. In addition, revisions by our government customers to the risk-adjustment models have reduced, and may continue to reduce, our premium revenue.. As a result of the variability of certain factors that determine estimates for risk-adjusted premiums, including plan risk scores, the actual amount of retroactive payments could be materially more or less than our estimates. Consequently, our estimate of our plans' risk scores for any period, and any resulting change in our accrual of premium revenues related thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The data provided to our government customers to determine the risk score are subject to audit by them even after the annual settlements occur. These audits may result in the refund of premiums to the government customer previously received by us, which could be significant and would reduce our premium revenue in the year that repayment is required.. Government customers have performed and continue to perform audits of selected plans to validate the provider coding practices under the risk adjustment model used to calculate the premium paid for each member. We anticipate that CMS will continue to conduct audits of our Medicare contracts and contract years on an on-going basis. An audit may result in the refund of premiums to CMS. It is likely that a payment adjustment could occur as a result of these audits; and any such adjustment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We are subject to extensive government regulation and risk of litigation, and any actual or alleged violation by us of the terms of our contracts, applicable laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our business is extensively regulated by the federal government and the states in which we operate. The laws and regulations governing our operations are generally intended to benefit and protect health plan members and providers rather than stockholders and creditors. The government agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude to enforce them. These laws and regulations, along with the terms of our government contracts, regulate how we do business, what services we offer, and how we interact with our members, providers and the public. Any actual or alleged violation by us of applicable laws or regulations could damage our reputation and reduce our revenues and profitability, thereby having a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. 41. Table of Contents. We face a significant risk of class action lawsuits and other litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses. The following are examples of types of potential litigation and regulatory investigations we face:. • claims by government agencies relating to compliance with laws and regulations;. • claims relating to sales practices;. • claims relating to the methodologies for calculating premiums;. • claims relating to the denial or delay of health care benefit payments;. • claims relating to claims payments and procedures;. • claims relating to provider marketing;. • claims by providers for network termination or exclusion;. • anti-kickback claims;. • medical malpractice or negligence actions based on our medical necessity decisions or brought against us on the theory that we are liable for our providers' malpractice or negligence;. • allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities;. • provider disputes over compensation and termination of provider contracts or defamation claims;. • allegations of discrimination;. • allegations of breaches of duties;. • claims relating to inadequate or incorrect disclosure or accounting in our public filings and other statements;. • allegations of agent misconduct;. • claims related to deceptive trade practices;. • claims relating to audits and contract performance;. • protests related to Medicaid awards; and. • violations of state procurement laws and policies.. As we contract with various governmental agencies to provide managed health care services, we are subject to various reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with the contracts and applicable laws and regulations. Any adverse review, audit, investigation or result from litigation could result in:. • loss of our right to participate in government-sponsored programs, including Medicaid and Medicare;. • forfeiture or recoupment of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our government contracts;. • imposition of significant civil or criminal penalties, fines or other sanctions on us and/or our key associates;. • reduction or limitation of our membership;. • damage to our reputation in various markets;. • increased difficulty in marketing our products and services;. • inability to obtain approval for future acquisitions or service or geographic expansion;. • suspension or loss of one or more of our licenses to act as an insurer, HMO or third party administrator or to otherwise provide a service; and. • an event of default under our debt agreements.. In particular, because we receive payments from federal and state governmental agencies, we are subject to various laws commonly referred to as \"fraud and abuse\" laws, including the federal False Claims Act, which permit agencies and enforcement authorities to institute suit against us for violations and, in some cases, to seek treble damages, penalties and assessments. Many states, including states where we currently operate, have enacted parallel legislation. Liability under such federal and state statutes and regulations may arise if we know, or it is found that we should have known, that information we provide to form the basis for a claim for government payment is false or fraudulent.. Some courts have permitted False Claims Act suits to proceed if the claimant was out of compliance with program requirements. Liability for such matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Qui tam, or \"whistleblower\" actions under federal and state law can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government. These actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of health care companies to defend false claim actions, pay fines or be excluded from Medicare, Medicaid or other state or federal health care programs as a result of investigations arising out of such actions.. For example, in October 2008, the Civil Division of the United States Department of Justice (the \"Civil Division\") informed us that as part of its civil inquiry, it was investigating four complaints filed by relators against us under the whistleblower provisions of the False Claims Act. We also learned from a docket search that a former employee filed an action in state court for Leon County, Florida against several defendants, including us and one of our subsidiaries. With respect to these actions, we reached a settlement with the Civil Division, the Civil Division of the United States Attorney's Office for the. 42. Table of Contents. Middle District of Florida, and the Civil Division of the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Connecticut. However, other such actions may have been filed against us of which we are presently unaware, or other similar actions may be filed against us in the future.. We are currently undergoing standard periodic audits by several state agencies and CMS to verify compliance with our contracts and applicable laws and regulations. For additional risks associated with these audits, see \"Risk-adjustment payment systems make our revenue and results of operations more difficult to estimate and could result in material retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows\" above.. In addition, there have been a number of investigations regarding the marketing practices of brokers and agents selling health care and other insurance products and the payments they receive. These have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and brokers and agents marketing and selling those companies' products. For example, CMS and state departments of insurance have increased their scrutiny of the marketing practices of brokers and agents who market Medicare products. These investigations and enforcement actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans and/or changes to industry practices, which could adversely affect our ability to market our products.. We rely on the accuracy of eligibility systems provided by our government clients to have members assigned to us, collect premiums, and any inaccuracies or other problems in those systems may cause states to recoup premium payments from us, or our membership to decline, which could materially reduce our revenues and results of operations.. Members are assigned to us and premium payments that we receive are based upon eligibility systems provided by our government clients. If those eligibility systems do not function properly, fewer members may be assigned to us, which could materially reduce our revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  In addition, a state will require us to reimburse it for premiums that we received from the state based on an eligibility list that it later discovers contains individuals who were not eligible for any government-sponsored program, have been enrolled twice in the same program, have secondary insurance, are eligible for a different premium category, are eligible for a different program or did not meet additional eligibility criteria such as premium payments or work requirements. Our review of remittance files may not identify all member eligibility errors and could result in repayment of premiums in years subsequent to the year in which the revenue was recorded.  We have established a reserve in anticipation of recoupment by the states of previous overpayments, but ultimately our reserve may not be sufficient to cover the amount, if any, of recoupments. If the amount of any recoupment exceeds our reserves, our revenues could be materially reduced and it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. In addition to recoupment of premiums previously paid, we also face the risk that a state could fail to pay us for members for whom we are entitled to payment, based on any inaccuracies or other errors in the states' eligibility systems. Our results of operations would be reduced as a result of the state's failure to pay us for related payments we made to providers and were unable to recoup.. If we are unable to access sufficient capital, whether as a result of difficulties finding acceptable public or private financing, restrictions under our credit agreement, restrictions under our Senior Notes, restrictions on dividend payments from our subsidiaries or higher levels of required statutory capital, we may be unable to grow or maintain our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our business strategy includes entering new markets by pursuing attractive growth opportunities for our existing product lines and pursuing acquisition opportunities. We may need to access the debt or equity markets and receive dividends from our subsidiaries to fund these growth activities.. Our ability to enter new markets and purchase existing businesses may be hindered in situations where financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. Financing may only be available to us with unfavorable terms such as high rates of interest, restrictive covenants and other restrictions that could impede our ability to profitably operate our business and increase the expected rate of return we require, making such efforts unfeasible.. Our Credit Agreement and Senior Notes have restrictions on our ability to secure additional capital. Our substantial indebtedness and restrictive covenants:. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and. • expose us to greater interest rate risk since the interest rate on borrowings under our Credit Agreement is variable.. 43. Table of Contents. Our debt service obligations require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business and ongoing capital expenditures, which could impede our growth. If our operating cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to comply with the financial covenants in the credit agreement or to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt financing or restructure our debt, which could harm our long-term business prospects.. Our Credit Agreement and Senior Notes also contain various restrictions and covenants that restrict our financial and operating flexibility, including our ability to grow our business or declare dividends without lender approval. If we fail to pay any of our indebtedness when due, or if we breach any of the other covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness, one or more events of default may be triggered. If we are unable to obtain a waiver, these events of default could permit our creditors to declare all amounts owed to be immediately due and payable.. In addition, in most states, we are required to seek the prior approval of state regulatory authorities to transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries in excess of specified amounts or, in some states, any amount. If our state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and/or distributions by certain of our regulated subsidiaries to us or our non-regulated subsidiaries, our liquidity, unregulated cash flows, business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected.. Our licensed HMO and insurance subsidiaries are subject to state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital and maintenance of certain financial ratios, as defined by each state. States may raise the statutory capital level from time to time, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity.. Our subsidiaries also may be required to maintain higher levels of statutory capital and are subject to their state regulators' general oversight powers. Regardless of whether a state adopts the risk-based capital requirements, the state's regulators can require our subsidiaries to maintain minimum levels of statutory net worth in excess of amounts required under the applicable state laws if they determine that maintaining such additional statutory net worth is in the best interests of our members and other constituents. For example, if premium rates are inadequate, reduced profits or losses in our regulated subsidiaries may cause regulators to increase the amount of capital required. Any additional capital contribution made to one or more of the affected subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and growth potential. In addition, increases of statutory capital requirements could cause us to withdraw from certain programs or markets where it becomes economically difficult to continue operating profitably.. Our indemnification obligations and the limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Under Delaware law, our charter and bylaws and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors, officers and associates with respect to current and future investigations and litigation. In connection with some pending matters, including the criminal trial of certain of our former executives and associates, we are required to, or we have otherwise agreed to, advance, and have advanced, significant legal fees and related expenses and expect to continue to do so while these matters are pending, subject to the caps provided in our settlement agreements with certain individuals. We have exhausted our insurance for the expenses associated with the criminal trial of our former executive officers and associates, and the related government investigations that commenced in 2007, and further expenses incurred by us for these matters will not be reimbursed.. We currently maintain insurance which provides coverage for our independent directors and officers hired after January 24, 2008 for certain potential matters to the extent they occur after October 2007. We cannot provide any assurances that pending claims, or claims yet to arise, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover our claims.. We are exposed to fluctuations in the securities and debt markets, which could affect our investment portfolio and our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity.. Our investment portfolio represents a significant portion of our assets and is subject to general credit, liquidity, and market and interest rate risks. Market fluctuations in the securities and credit markets could affect the value or liquidity of our investment portfolio and adversely affect interest income. As a result, we may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity which may materially affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity.. 44. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Stock. We are subject to laws and government regulations that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our Company, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions favorable to stockholders.. Our operating subsidiaries are subject to state laws that require prior regulatory approval for any change of control of an HMO or insurance company. For purposes of these laws, in most states \"control\" of an entity is presumed to exist when a person, group of persons or entity acquires the power to vote 10% or more of the voting securities of that entity, subject to certain exceptions. These laws may discourage acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular through unsolicited transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions that some or all of our stockholders find favorable.. Our stock price and trading volume may be volatile and future sales of our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. From time to time, the price and trading volume of our common stock, as well as the stock of other companies in the health care industry, may experience periods of significant volatility. Company-specific issues and developments generally in the health care industry (including the regulatory environment) and the capital markets and the economy in general may cause this volatility. Our stock price and trading volume may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including:. • variations in our operating results;. • changes in our or the market's expectations about our future operating results;. • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning our Company or the health care industry generally;. • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable;. • news reports relating to trends in our markets;. • changes or proposed changes in the laws, regulations and policies affecting our business;. • acquisitions and financings by us or others in our industry;. • changes in our senior management;. • sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by our directors and executive officers or principal stockholders, or the perception that such sales could occur; and. • the risks described in \"Risks Related to Our Business\" above.. We may issue equity securities in the future, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. We have an effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3 filed with the SEC under which we may offer from time to time an indeterminate amount of any combination of debt securities, common and preferred stock and warrants. The registration statement allows us to seek additional financing, subject to the SEC's rules and regulations relating to eligibility to use Form S-3. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants.. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities, including sales of shares in connection with any future acquisitions, could be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. These sales may have a harmful effect on prevailing market prices for our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital in the financial markets at a time and price favorable to us. Holders of shares of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle them to purchase a pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation provides that we have authority to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock.. Risks Related to Information Technology. If we or our vendors are unable to maintain effective and secure management information systems and applications, successfully update or expand processing capability or develop new capabilities to meet our business needs and regulatory requirements, we could experience operational disruptions and other materially adverse consequences to our business and results of operations.. Our business depends on effective and secure information systems, applications and operations.  The information gathered, processed and stored by our management information systems and our vendors' management information systems assists us in, among other things, marketing and sales, membership tracking, billing, claims processing, medical management, medical care cost and utilization trending, reinsurance, financial and management accounting, reporting, and planning and analysis. These. 45. Table of Contents. systems also support our customer service functions, provider and member administrative functions and support tracking and extensive analysis of medical expenses and outcome data. These systems remain subject to unexpected interruptions resulting from occurrences such as hardware failures or increased demand. There can be no assurance that such interruptions will not occur in the future, and any such interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Moreover, operating and other issues can lead to data problems that affect the performance of important functions, including, but not limited to, claims payment, customer service and financial reporting.. There can also be no assurance that our or our vendors' process of maintaining and improving existing systems, developing new systems to support our operations, complying with contractual and regulatory requirements and improving service levels will not be delayed or that system issues will not arise in the future. Our and our vendors' information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs and regulatory requirements. If we or our vendors are unable to maintain or expand our systems, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, such as the inability to pay claims or to make claims payments on a timely basis, loss of members, difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems, difficulty in improving quality, increases in administrative expenses and write-offs of our expenditures in unsuccessful capital investments.. Additionally, events outside our control, including terrorism or acts of nature such as hurricanes, earthquakes, or fires, could significantly impair our or our vendors' information systems, applications and critical business functions. To help ensure continued operations in the event that our primary operations are rendered inoperable, we have a disaster recovery plan to recover critical business functionality within stated timelines. Our plan may not operate effectively during or following an actual attack or natural disaster and our operations and critical business functions could be disrupted or compromised, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations.. Cybersecurity attacks also could significantly impair our or our vendors' information systems, or compromise our or our vendors' data security.  Despite our and our vendors efforts to secure information systems, we could be subject to cybersecurity incidents that bypass our security measures, impact the integrity, availability or privacy of personal health information or other data subject to privacy laws or disrupt our information systems, devices or business, including our ability to provide various health care services. As cyber threats continue to evolve from malicious persons and groups, new vulnerabilities and advanced new attacks against information systems, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any cybersecurity vulnerabilities.  Cybersecurity attacks could result in (i) harm to our members, associates and providers; (ii) business interruptions and delays; (iii) the loss, misappropriation, corruption or unauthorized access of data; (iv) litigation and potential liability under privacy, security and consumer protection laws or other applicable laws; (v) reputational damage and (vi) federal and state governmental inquiries, any of which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation.. In addition, we and our vendors are subject to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (\"HIPAA\") as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (the \"HITECH Act\"), as well as numerous other privacy and security laws and regulations at the federal and state levels.  Given the complexity and the evolving regulations related to data security and privacy, our or our vendors' ongoing ability to comply with such requirements is uncertain, which may expose us to the criminal and increased civil penalties provided under such laws and may require us to incur significant costs in order to seek to comply with such requirements, as well as subject us to significant penalties and reputational damage if we are unable to comply, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations."
