[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. We wish to caution readers that in addition to the important factors described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, we have included below the most significant factors that have affected, or in the future could affect, our actual results and could cause our actual consolidated results during fiscal 2018, and beyond, to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf.. Our success depends in part upon the continued succession and retention of certain key personnel.. On October, 6, 2017, the Company announced that Chief People Officer Scott Weisberg intended to leave the Company once he had completed an effective succession process.  Mr. Weisberg has transitioned his responsibilities to Coley O'Brien, who had been Vice President of Human Resources.  Mr. O'Brien will become Chief People Officer effective March 1, 2018 and join the senior leadership team reporting to President and Chief Executive Officer Todd Penegor.. We believe that over time our success has been dependent to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management team.  The failure by us to retain members of our senior management team in the future could adversely affect our ability to build on the efforts we have undertaken to increase the efficiency and profitability of our business.. Competition from other restaurant companies as well as grocery chains and other retail food outlets, or poor customer experience at Wendy's restaurants, could hurt our brand.. The market segments in which Company-operated and franchised Wendy's restaurants compete are highly competitive with respect to, among other things, price, food quality and presentation, service, location, convenience, and the nature and condition of the restaurant facility.  If customers have a poor experience at a Wendy's restaurant, whether at a Company-operated or franchised restaurant, we may experience a decrease in guest traffic.  Further, Wendy's restaurants compete with a variety of locally-owned restaurants, as well as competitive regional and national chains and franchises.  Several of these chains compete by offering menu items that are targeted at certain consumer groups or dietary trends.  Additionally, many of our competitors have introduced lower cost, value meal menu options.  Our revenues and those of our franchisees may be hurt by this product and price competition.. Moreover, new companies, including operators outside the quick-service restaurant industry, may enter our market areas and target our customer base.  For example, additional competitive pressures for prepared food purchases have come from deli sections and in-store cafes of a number of major grocery store chains, as well as from convenience stores and casual dining outlets.  Such competitors may have, among other things, lower operating costs, better locations, better facilities, better management, better products, more effective marketing and more efficient operations.  Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do, which may allow them to react to changes in pricing and marketing strategies in the quick-service restaurant industry better than we can.  Many of our competitors spend significantly more on advertising and marketing than we do, which may give them a competitive advantage through higher levels of brand awareness among consumers.. Wendy's also competes with grocery chains and other retail outlets which sell food that will be prepared at home.  Competition with these chains and other outlets has increased as the gap between the price of food at home compared to food purchased at restaurants has widened.. 12. All such competition may adversely affect our revenues and profits by reducing revenues of Company-operated restaurants and royalty revenue from franchised restaurants.. Changes in consumer tastes and preferences, and in discretionary consumer spending, could result in a decline in sales at Company-operated restaurants and in the royalties that we receive from franchisees.. The quick-service restaurant industry is often affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions, discretionary spending priorities, demographic trends, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing restaurants.  Our success depends to a significant extent on discretionary consumer spending, which is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income.  Accordingly, we may experience declines in sales during economic downturns.  Any material decline in the amount of discretionary spending or a decline in consumer food-away-from-home spending could hurt our revenues, results of operations, business and financial condition.. If Company-operated and franchised restaurants are unable to adapt to changes in consumer preferences and trends, Company-operated and franchised restaurants may lose customers and the resulting revenues from Company-operated restaurants and the royalties that we receive from franchisees may decline.. Disruptions in the national and global economies may adversely impact our revenues, results of operations, business and financial condition.. Disruptions in the national and global economies could result in higher unemployment rates and declines in consumer confidence and spending.  If such disruptions occur, they may result in significant declines in consumer food-away-from-home spending and customer traffic in our restaurants and those of our franchisees.  There can be no assurance that government responses to the disruptions will restore consumer confidence.  Ongoing disruptions in the national and global economies may adversely impact our revenues, results of operations, business and financial condition.. Changes in commodity costs (including beef, chicken, pork, cheese and grains), supplies, fuel, utilities, distribution and other operating costs could harm results of operations.. Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in commodity costs (including beef, chicken, pork, cheese and grains), supplies, fuel, utilities, distribution and other operating costs.  Commodity cost pressures, and any increase in these costs, especially beef or chicken prices, could adversely affect future operating results.  In addition, our business is susceptible to increases in these costs as a result of other factors beyond our control, such as weather conditions, global demand, food safety concerns, product recalls and government regulations.  Further, prices for feed ingredients used to produce beef, chicken and pork could be adversely affected by changes in global weather patterns, which are inherently unpredictable, and by federal ethanol policy.  Increases in gasoline prices could result in the imposition of fuel surcharges by our distributors, which would increase our costs.  Significant increases in expenses incurred by consumers, such as living expenses or gasoline prices, could also result in a decrease in customer traffic at our restaurants, which could adversely affect our business.  We cannot predict whether we will be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs by adjusting our purchasing practices and menu prices, and a failure to do so could adversely affect our operating results.  In addition, we may not seek to or be able to pass along price increases to our customers.. Shortages or interruptions in the supply or delivery of perishable food products could damage the Wendy's brand reputation and adversely affect our sales and operating results.. Wendy's and its franchisees are dependent on frequent deliveries of perishable food products that meet brand specifications.  Shortages or interruptions in the supply of perishable food products caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, disease or food-borne illnesses, inclement weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients, which could lower our revenues, increase operating costs, damage brand reputation and otherwise harm our business and the businesses of our franchisees.. Food safety events, including instances of food-borne illness (such as salmonella or E. Coli) involving Wendy's, its supply chain or other food service companies, could create negative publicity and adversely affect sales and operating results.. Food safety is a top priority, and we dedicate substantial resources to ensure that our customers enjoy safe, quality food products.  However, food safety events, including instances of food-borne illness (such as salmonella or E. Coli), have occurred in the food industry in the past, and could occur in the future.. 13. Food safety events could adversely affect the price and availability of beef, poultry or other meats.  As a result, Wendy's restaurants could experience a significant increase in food costs if there are food safety events whether or not such events involve Wendy's restaurants or restaurants of competitors.. In addition, food safety events, whether or not involving Wendy's, could result in negative publicity for Wendy's or for the industry or market segments in which we operate.  Increased use of social media could create and/or amplify the effects of negative publicity.  This negative publicity, as well as any other negative publicity concerning types of food products Wendy's serves, may reduce demand for Wendy's food and could result in a decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants as consumers shift their preferences to our competitors or to other products or food types.  A decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity could result in a decline in sales and operating results at Company-operated restaurants or in royalties from sales at franchised restaurants.. Consumer concerns regarding the nutritional aspects of beef, poultry, french fries or other products we sell, concerns regarding the ingredients in our products and/or cooking processes used in our restaurants, or concerns regarding the effects of disease outbreaks, epidemics or pandemics could affect demand for our products.. Consumer concerns regarding the nutritional aspects of beef, poultry, french fries or other products we sell, concerns regarding the ingredients in our products and/or cooking processes used in our restaurants, or concerns regarding the effects of disease outbreaks, epidemics or pandemics could result in less demand for our products and a decline in sales at Company-operated restaurants and in royalties from sales at franchised restaurants.. Increased use of social media could create and/or amplify the effects of negative publicity and adversely affect sales and operating results.. Events reported in the media, including social media, whether or not accurate or involving Wendy's, could create and/or amplify negative publicity for Wendy's or for the industry or market segments in which we operate.  This could reduce demand for Wendy's food and could result in a decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants as consumers shift their preferences to our competitors or to other products or food types.  A decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants as a result of negative publicity from social media could result in a decline in sales and operating results at Company-operated restaurants or in royalties from sales at franchised restaurants.. Growth of our restaurant business is dependent on new restaurant openings, which may be affected by factors beyond our control.. Our restaurant business derives earnings from sales at Company-operated restaurants, franchise royalties received from franchised restaurants and franchise fees from franchise restaurant operators for each new unit opened.  Growth in our restaurant revenues and earnings is dependent on new restaurant openings.  Numerous factors beyond our control may affect restaurant openings.  These factors include but are not limited to:. • our ability to attract new franchisees;. • the availability of site locations for new restaurants;. • the ability of potential restaurant owners to obtain financing;. • the ability of restaurant owners to hire, train and retain qualified operating personnel;. • construction and development costs of new restaurants, particularly in highly-competitive markets;. • the ability of restaurant owners to secure required governmental approvals and permits in a timely manner, or at all; and. • adverse weather conditions.. 14. Wendy's franchisees could take actions that could harm our business.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 95% of restaurants in the Wendy's system were operated by franchisees.  Wendy's franchisees are contractually obligated to operate their restaurants in accordance with the standards set forth in agreements with them.  Wendy's also provides training and support to franchisees.  However, franchisees are independent third parties that we do not control, and the franchisees own, operate and oversee the daily operations of their restaurants.  Specifically, franchisees are solely responsible for developing and utilizing their own policies, procedures and documents, making their own hiring, firing and disciplinary decisions, scheduling hours and establishing wages, and managing their day-to-day employment processes and procedures, all of which is done independent of Wendy's and in compliance with all applicable laws, rules or regulations.  Further, franchisees have discretion as to the prices charged to customers.  As a result, the ultimate success and quality of any franchise restaurant rests with the franchisee.  If franchisees do not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with required standards, then royalty payments to us could be adversely affected and the brand's image and reputation could be harmed, both of which in turn could hurt our business and operating results.. In addition, the failure of franchisees to adequately engage in succession planning may affect their restaurant operations and development of new Wendy's restaurants, which in turn could hurt our business and operating results.. Our success depends on franchisees' participation in brand strategies.. Wendy's franchisees are an integral part of our business.  Wendy's may be unable to successfully implement the strategies that it believes are necessary for further growth if franchisees do not participate in that implementation.  Our business and operating results could be adversely affected if a significant number of franchisees do not participate in brand strategies.. Our Image Activation program may not positively affect sales at Company-operated and participating franchised restaurants or improve our results of operations, and franchisees may not participate in the Image Activation program to the extent expected by the Company.. The Company and its franchisees reimaged 551 North America system restaurants and built 174 global restaurants in 2017.  As of December 31, 2017, the global Wendy's system had 43% of restaurants on the new image.  The Company has plans for significantly more new and reimaged Company and franchisee restaurants in 2018 and beyond.. In order to promote Image Activation new restaurant development, Wendy's has an incentive program for franchisees that provides for reductions in royalty and national advertising payments for up to the first two years of operation for qualifying new restaurants opened by December 31, 2020, with the value of the incentives declining in the later years of the program.  Wendy's also had incentive programs for 2017 available to franchisees that commenced Image Activation restaurant remodels by December 15, 2017.  The remodel incentive programs provide for reductions in royalty payments for one year after the completion of construction.. The Company's Image Activation program may not positively affect sales at Company-operated restaurants or improve results of operations.  There can be no assurance that sales at participating franchised restaurants will achieve or maintain projected levels or that after giving effect to the incentives provided to franchisees the Company's results of operations will improve.  There can also be no assurance that franchisees will participate in the Image Activation program to the extent expected by the Company.. Further, it is possible that Wendy's may provide other financial incentives to franchisees to participate in the Image Activation program.  These incentives could also result in additional expense and/or a reduction of royalties or other revenues received from franchisees in the future.  If Wendy's provides additional incentives to franchisees related to financing of the Image Activation program, Wendy's may incur costs related to loan guarantees, interest rate subsidies and/or costs related to collectability of loans.. In addition, most of the Wendy's system consists of franchised restaurants.  Many of our franchisees will need to borrow funds in order to participate in the Image Activation program.  Other than the incentive programs described above, Wendy's generally does not provide franchisees with financing but it continues to develop third-party financing sources for franchisees.  If our franchisees are unable to obtain financing at commercially reasonable rates, or not at all, they may be unwilling or unable to invest in the reimaging of their existing restaurants and our future growth and results of operations could be adversely affected.. 15. Our financial results are affected by the operating results of franchisees.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 95% of the Wendy's system were franchise restaurants.  We receive revenue in the form of royalties, which are generally based on a percentage of sales at franchised restaurants, rent and fees from franchisees.  Accordingly, a substantial portion of our financial results is to a large extent dependent upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees.  If sales trends or economic conditions worsen for franchisees, their financial results may worsen and our royalty, rent and other fee revenues may decline.  In addition, accounts receivable and related allowance for doubtful accounts may increase.  When Company-operated restaurants are sold, one of our subsidiaries is often required to remain responsible for lease payments for these restaurants to the extent that the purchasing franchisees default on their leases.  During periods of declining sales and profitability of franchisees, the incidence of franchisee defaults for these lease payments increases and we are then required to make those payments and seek recourse against the franchisee or agree to repayment terms.  Additionally, if franchisees fail to renew their franchise agreements, or if we decide to restructure franchise agreements in order to induce franchisees to renew these agreements, then our royalty revenues may decrease.  Further, we may decide from time to time to acquire restaurants from franchisees that experience significant financial hardship, which may reduce our cash and cash equivalents.. Wendy's may be unable to manage effectively the acquisition and disposition of restaurants, which could adversely affect our business and financial results.. Wendy's has from time to time acquired the interests of and sold Wendy's restaurants to franchisees.  Wendy's will continue to evaluate strategic acquisitions of franchised restaurants and strategic dispositions of Company-operated restaurants to existing and new franchisees.  The success of these transactions is dependent upon the availability of sellers and buyers, the availability of financing, and the brand's ability to negotiate transactions on terms deemed acceptable.  In addition, the operations of restaurants that the brand acquires may not be integrated successfully, and the intended benefits of such transactions may not be realized.  Acquisitions of franchised restaurants pose various risks to brand operations, including:. • diversion of management's attention to the integration of acquired restaurant operations;. • increased operating expenses and the inability to achieve expected cost savings and operating efficiencies;. • exposure to liabilities arising out of sellers' prior operations of acquired restaurants; and. • incurrence or assumption of debt to finance acquisitions or improvements and/or the assumption of long-term, non-cancelable leases.. In addition, engaging in acquisitions and dispositions places increased demands on the brand's operational and financial management resources and may require us to continue to expand these resources.  If Wendy's is unable to manage the acquisition and disposition of restaurants effectively, our business and financial results could be adversely affected.. Current restaurant locations may become unattractive, and attractive new locations may not be available for a reasonable price, if at all.. The success of any restaurant depends in substantial part on its location.  There can be no assurance that our current restaurant locations will continue to be attractive as demographic patterns change.  Neighborhood or economic conditions where our restaurants are located could decline in the future, thus resulting in potentially reduced sales in those locations.  In addition, rising real estate prices in some areas may restrict our ability and the ability of franchisees to purchase or lease new desirable locations.  If desirable locations cannot be obtained at reasonable prices, the brand's ability to execute its growth strategies could be adversely affected.. Wendy's leasing and ownership of significant amounts of real estate exposes it to possible liabilities and losses, including liabilities associated with environmental matters.. As of December 31, 2017, Wendy's leased or owned the land and/or the building for 337 Company-operated Wendy's restaurants.  Wendy's also owned 521 and leased 1,296 properties that were either leased or subleased principally to franchisees as of December 31, 2017.  Accordingly, we are subject to all of the risks associated with leasing and owning real estate.  In particular, the value of our real property assets could decrease, and costs could increase, because of changes in the investment climate for real estate, demographic trends, supply or demand for the use of the restaurants, which may result from competition from similar restaurants in the area, and liability for environmental matters.. 16. Wendy's is subject to federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning the discharge, storage, handling, release and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances.  These environmental laws provide for significant fines, penalties and liabilities, sometimes without regard to whether the owner, operator or occupant of the property knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of the hazardous or toxic substances.  Third parties may also make claims against owners, operators or occupants of properties for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of, or actual or alleged exposure to, such substances.  A number of our restaurant sites were formerly gas stations or are adjacent to current or former gas stations, or were used for other commercial activities that can create environmental impacts.  We may also acquire or lease these types of sites in the future.  We have not conducted a comprehensive environmental review of all of our properties.  We may not have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities at our leased and owned properties, and any such liabilities identified in the future could cause us to incur significant costs, including costs associated with litigation, fines or clean-up responsibilities.  In addition, we cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted.  We cannot predict the amount of future expenditures that may be required in order to comply with any environmental laws or regulations or to satisfy any such claims.  See \"Item 1. Business - General - Legal and Environmental Matters.\". Wendy's leases real property generally for initial terms of 15 to 20 years with one or more options to extend the term of the leases in consecutive five-year increments.  Many leases provide that the landlord may increase the rent over the term of the lease and any renewals thereof.  Most leases require us to pay all of the costs of insurance, taxes, maintenance and utilities.  We generally cannot cancel these leases.  If an existing or future restaurant is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term.  In addition, as each lease expires, we may fail to negotiate additional renewals or renewal options, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close restaurants in desirable locations.. Due to the concentration of Wendy's restaurants in particular geographic regions, our business results could be impacted by the adverse economic conditions prevailing in those regions regardless of the state of the national economy as a whole.. As of December 31, 2017, we and our franchisees operated Wendy's restaurants in 50 states, the District of Columbia and 30 foreign countries and territories.  As of December 31, 2017 and as detailed in \"Item 2. Properties,\" the eight leading states by number of operating units were: Florida, Ohio, Texas, Georgia, California, Pennsylvania, North Carolina and Michigan.  This geographic concentration can cause economic conditions in particular areas of the country to have a disproportionate impact on our overall results of operations.  It is possible that adverse economic conditions in states or regions that contain a high concentration of Wendy's restaurants could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in the future.. Our operations are influenced by adverse weather conditions.. Weather, which is unpredictable, can impact Wendy's restaurant sales.  Harsh weather conditions that keep customers from dining out result in lost opportunities for our restaurants.  A heavy snowstorm in the Northeast or Midwest or a hurricane in the Southeast can shut down an entire metropolitan area, resulting in a reduction in sales in that area.  Our first quarter includes winter months and historically has a lower level of sales at Company-operated restaurants.  Because a significant portion of our restaurant operating costs is fixed or semi-fixed in nature, the loss of sales during these periods hurts our operating margins, and can result in restaurant operating losses.  For these reasons, a quarter-to-quarter comparison may not be a good indication of Wendy's performance or how it may perform in the future.. Our business could be hurt by increased labor costs or labor shortages.. Labor is a primary component in the cost of operating our restaurants.  We devote significant resources to recruiting and training its managers and hourly employees.  Increased labor costs due to competition, increased minimum wage or employee benefits costs (including various federal, state and local actions to increase minimum wages), unionization activity or other factors would adversely impact our cost of sales and operating expenses.  In addition, Wendy's success depends on its ability to attract, motivate and retain qualified employees, including restaurant managers and staff.  If the brand is unable to do so, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. 17. Complaints or litigation may hurt the Wendy's brand.. Wendy's customers file complaints or lawsuits against us alleging that we are responsible for an illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to a Wendy's restaurant, or alleging that there was a problem with food quality or operations at a Wendy's restaurant.  We are also subject to a variety of other claims arising in the ordinary course of our business, including personal injury claims, contract claims, claims from franchisees (which tend to increase when franchisees experience declining sales and profitability) and claims alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters, including class action lawsuits related to these matters.  The Company has also been named as a defendant in the matters described in Note 23 of the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data included in Item 8 herein.  Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are found to be liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert management's attention away from operations and hurt our performance.  We cannot estimate the aggregate possible range of loss due to most proceedings being in preliminary stages, with various motions either yet to be submitted or pending, discovery yet to occur, and significant factual matters unresolved.  In addition, most cases seek an indeterminate amount of damages and many involve multiple parties.  Predicting the outcomes of settlement discussions or judicial or arbitral decisions are thus inherently difficult.  Insurance policies contain customary limitations, conditions and exclusions that can affect the amount of insurance proceeds ultimately received.  A judgment significantly in excess of our insurance coverage for any claims could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.  Further, adverse publicity resulting from these claims may hurt us and our franchisees.. Additionally, the restaurant industry has been subject to a number of claims that the menus and actions of restaurant chains have contributed to the obesity of certain of their customers.  Adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may harm the reputation of our restaurants, even if the allegations are not directed against our restaurants or are not valid, and even if we are not found liable or the concerns relate only to a single restaurant or a limited number of restaurants.  Moreover, complaints, litigation or adverse publicity experienced by one or more of Wendy's franchisees could also hurt our business as a whole.. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of the Wendy's brand and hurt our business.. Our intellectual property is material to the conduct of our business.  We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets and similar intellectual property rights to protect our brand and other intellectual property.  The success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to increase brand awareness and further develop our branded products in both existing and new markets.  If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are not adequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property, either in print or on the Internet, the value of our brand may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, including the failure of our brand to achieve and maintain market acceptance.  This could harm our image, brand or competitive position and, if we commence litigation to enforce our rights, cause us to incur significant legal fees.. We franchise our brand to various franchisees.  While we try to ensure that the quality of our brand is maintained by all of our franchisees, we cannot assure that these franchisees will not take actions that hurt the value of our intellectual property or the reputation of the Wendy's restaurant system.. We have registered certain trademarks and have other trademark registrations pending in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions.  The trademarks that we currently use have not been registered in all of the countries outside of the United States in which we do business or may do business in the future and may never be registered in all of these countries.  We cannot assure that all of the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property in the United States and foreign countries will be adequate.  The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.. In addition, we cannot assure that third parties will not claim infringement by us in the future.  Any such claim, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause delays in introducing new menu items, require costly modifications to advertising and promotional materials or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements.  As a result, any such claim could harm our business and cause a decline in our results of operations and financial condition.. 18. Our current insurance may not provide adequate levels of coverage against claims that have been or may be filed.. We currently maintain insurance we believe is adequate for businesses of our size and type.  However, there are types of losses we may incur that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not economically reasonable to insure, such as losses due to natural disasters or acts of terrorism.  In addition, we currently self-insure a significant portion of expected losses under workers' compensation, general liability and property insurance programs.  Unanticipated changes in the actuarial assumptions and management estimates underlying our reserves for these losses could result in materially different amounts of expense under these programs, which could harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. The Company currently maintains insurance coverage to address cyber incidents.  Applicable insurance policies contain customary limitations, conditions and exclusions.  There can be no assurance that the cyber policies maintained by the Company will cover substantially all of the Company's costs and expenses incurred related to the cybersecurity incidents described below in this Item 1A and in Note 23 of the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data included in Item 8 herein.. Changes in legal or regulatory requirements, including franchising laws, payment card industry rules, overtime rules, minimum wage rates, tax legislation, federal ethanol policy and accounting standards, may adversely affect our ability to open new restaurants or otherwise hurt our existing and future operations and results.. Each Wendy's restaurant is subject to licensing and regulation by health, sanitation, safety and other agencies in the state and/or municipality in which the restaurant is located, as well as to Federal laws, rules and regulations and requirements of non-governmental entities such as payment card industry rules.  State and local government authorities may enact laws, rules or regulations that impact restaurant operations and the cost of conducting those operations.  There can be no assurance that we and/or our franchisees will not experience material difficulties or failures in obtaining the necessary licenses or approvals for new restaurants, which could delay the opening of such restaurants in the future.  In addition, more stringent and varied requirements of local governmental bodies with respect to tax, zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay or prevent development of new restaurants in particular locations.. Federal laws, rules and regulations address many aspects of our business, such as franchising, federal ethanol policy, minimum wages and taxes.  We and our franchisees are also subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, along with the ADA, family leave mandates and a variety of other laws enacted by the states that govern these and other employment law matters.  Changes in laws, rules, regulations and governmental policies, including the joint employer standard, could increase our costs and adversely affect our existing and future operations and results.. Changes in accounting standards, or in the interpretation of existing standards, applicable to us could also affect our future results.  See \"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\" Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, for a summary of new or amended accounting standards applicable to us.. We do not exercise ultimate control over purchasing for our restaurant system, which could harm sales or profitability and the brand.. Although we ensure that all suppliers to the Wendy's system meet quality control standards, Wendy's franchisees control the purchasing of food, proprietary paper, equipment and other operating supplies from such suppliers through the purchasing co-op controlled by Wendy's franchisees, QSCC.  QSCC negotiates national contracts for such food, equipment and supplies.  We are entitled to appoint two representatives (of the total of 11) on the board of directors of QSCC and participate in QSCC through our Company-operated restaurants, but we do not control the decisions and activities of QSCC except to ensure that all suppliers satisfy our quality control standards.  If QSCC does not properly estimate the product needs of the Wendy's system, makes poor purchasing decisions, or decides to cease its operations, system sales and operating costs could be adversely affected and our results of operations and financial condition or the financial condition of Wendy's franchisees could be hurt.. 19. Our international operations are subject to various factors of uncertainty and there is no assurance that international operations will be profitable.. In addition to many of the risk factors described throughout this Item 1A, Wendy's business outside of the United States is subject to a number of additional factors, including international economic and political conditions, risk of corruption and violations of the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar laws of other countries, differing cultures and consumer preferences, the inability to adapt to international customer preferences, inadequate brand infrastructure within foreign countries to support our international activities, inability to obtain adequate supplies meeting our quality standards and product specifications or interruptions in obtaining such supplies, restrictions on our ability to move cash out of certain foreign countries, currency regulations and fluctuations, diverse government regulations and tax systems, uncertain or differing interpretations of rights and obligations in connection with international franchise agreements, the collection of royalties from international franchisees and intellectual property rights, the availability and cost of land, construction costs, other legal, financial or regulatory impediments to the development and/or operation of new restaurants, and the availability of experienced management, appropriate franchisees, and joint venture partners.  Although we believe we have developed the support structure required for international growth, there is no assurance that such growth will occur or that international operations will be profitable.. To the extent we invest in international Company-operated restaurants or joint ventures, we would also have the risk of operating losses related to those restaurants, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We are heavily dependent on computer systems and information technology and any material failure, interruption or security breach of our computer systems or technology could impair our ability to efficiently operate our business.. We are significantly dependent upon our computer systems and information technology to properly conduct our business, including point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, management of our supply chain, collection of cash, payment of obligations and various other processes and procedures.  Our ability to efficiently manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems and information technology.  The failure of these systems and information technology to operate effectively, an interruption, problems with maintenance, upgrading or transitioning to replacement systems, fraudulent manipulation of sales reporting from our franchised restaurants resulting in loss of sales and royalty payments, or a breach in security of these systems could be harmful and cause delays in customer service, result in the loss of data and reduce efficiency or cause delays in operations.  Significant capital investments might be required to remediate any problems.  Any security breach involving our or our franchisees' point-of-sale or other systems could result in a loss of consumer confidence and potential costs associated with fraud.  Also, despite our considerable efforts and technological resources to secure our computer systems and information technology, security breaches, such as unauthorized access and computer viruses, may occur, resulting in system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information.  A security breach of our computer systems or information technology could require us to notify customers, employees or other groups, result in adverse publicity, loss of sales and profits, and incur penalties or other costs that could adversely affect the operation of our business and results of operations.. As part of our marketing efforts, we rely on search engine marketing and social media platforms to attract and retain customers.  These efforts may not be successful, and pose a variety of other risks, including the improper disclosure of proprietary information, negative comments about the Wendy's brand, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud or out of date information.  The inappropriate use of social media vehicles by franchisees, customers, or employees could increase our costs, lead to litigation or result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation.  The occurrence of any such developments could have an adverse effect on business results.. 20. The occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in cybersecurity, could negatively impact our business by causing a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of confidential information, and/or damage to our employee and business relationships, all of which could subject us to loss and harm the Wendy's brand.. A cyber incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity or availability of information resources.  More specifically, a cyber incident is an intentional attack or an unintentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data or steal confidential information about customers, franchisees, vendors and employees.  A number of retailers and other companies have recently experienced serious cyber incidents and breaches of their information technology systems.  The Wendy's system has also experienced unusual credit card activity at some Wendy's restaurants, as further described below.  As the Company's reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to its systems, both internal and those it has outsourced.  The three primary risks that could directly result from the occurrence of a cyber incident include operational interruption, damage to the relationship with customers, franchisees and employees and private data exposure.  In addition to maintaining insurance coverage to address cyber incidents, the Company has also implemented processes, procedures and controls to help mitigate these risks.  However, these measures, as well as its increased awareness of a risk of a cyber incident, do not guarantee that the Company's reputation and financial results will not be adversely affected by such an incident.. Because the Company and its franchisees accept electronic forms of payment from their customers, the Company's business requires the collection and retention of customer data, including credit and debit card numbers and other personally identifiable information in various information systems that the Company and its franchisees maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom the Company and its franchisees contract to provide credit card processing.  The Company also maintains important internal Company data, such as personally identifiable information about its employees and franchisees and information relating to its operations.  The Company's use of personally identifiable information is regulated by foreign, federal and state laws, as well as by certain third-party agreements.  As privacy and information security laws and regulations change, the Company may incur additional costs to ensure that it remains in compliance with those laws and regulations.  If the Company's security and information systems are compromised or if its employees or franchisees fail to comply with these laws, regulations, or contract terms, and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect the Company's reputation and could disrupt its operations and result in costly litigation, judgments, or penalties resulting from violation of federal and state laws and payment card industry regulations.  A cyber incident could also require the Company to notify customers, employees or other groups, result in adverse publicity, loss of sales and profits, increase fees payable to third parties, and incur penalties or remediation and other costs that could adversely affect the operation of the Company's business and results of operations.. Certain of our franchisees have experienced cybersecurity incidents.. The Company first reported unusual payment card activity affecting some franchise-owned restaurants in February 2016 and that malware had been discovered on certain systems.  Subsequently, on June 9, 2016, the Company reported that an additional malware variant had been identified and disabled.  On July 7, 2016, the Company, on behalf of affected franchise locations, provided information about specific restaurant locations that may have been impacted by these attacks, all of which are located in the United States, along with support for customers who may have been affected by the malware variants.. Working closely with third-party forensic experts, federal law enforcement and payment card industry contacts as part of its investigation, the Company determined that specific payment card information was targeted by the additional malware variant.  This information included cardholder name, credit or debit card number, expiration date, cardholder verification value and service code.. The Company believes the criminal cyberattacks resulted from service providers' remote access credentials being compromised, allowing access, and the ability to deploy malware, to some franchisees' point-of-sale systems.  There has been no indication in the investigation that any Company-operated restaurants were impacted by this activity.. The Company worked with investigators to disable the malware involved in the first attack in 2016.  Soon after detecting the malware variant involved in the latest attack, the Company identified a method of disabling it and thereafter disabled it in all franchisee restaurants where it was discovered.  The investigation has confirmed that criminals used malware believed to have been effectively deployed on some Wendy's franchisee systems starting in late fall 2015.. 21. The Company has been named as a defendant in a putative class action filed in the United States on behalf of customers, as well as five class actions brought by financial institutions in the United States that have been consolidated into a single proceeding.  In addition, certain of the Company's present and former directors, and one non-director executive officer of the Company, were named as defendants in a putative shareholder derivative complaint alleging breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment and gross mismanagement.  These civil proceedings seek damages and other relief allegedly arising from the cybersecurity incident.  In addition, claims may also be made by payment card networks against the affected franchisees.  These claims and investigations may adversely affect how we or our franchisees operate the business, divert the attention of management from the operation of the business, have an adverse effect on our reputation, result in additional costs and adversely affect our results of operations.. We may be required to recognize additional asset impairment and other asset-related charges.. We have significant amounts of long-lived assets, goodwill and intangible assets and have incurred impairment charges in the past with respect to those assets.  In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we test for impairment generally annually, or more frequently, if there are indicators of impairment, such as:. • significant adverse changes in the business climate;. • current period operating or cash flow losses combined with a history of operating or cash flow losses or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with long-lived assets;. • a current expectation that more-likely-than-not (i.e., a likelihood that is more than 50%) long-lived assets will be sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of their previously estimated useful life; and. • a significant drop in our stock price.. Based upon future economic and capital market conditions, as well as the operating performance of our reporting units, future impairment charges could be incurred.  Further, as a result of the system optimization initiative, the Company has recorded losses on remeasuring long-lived assets to fair value upon determination that the assets will be leased and/or subleased to franchisees in connection with the sale or anticipated sale of restaurants, and may incur further losses as the Company sells restaurants from time to time.. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are subject to various restrictions, and substantially all of the assets of certain subsidiaries are security, under the terms of a securitization transaction.. On January 17, 2018, Wendy's Funding, LLC (the \"Master Issuer\"), a limited-purpose, bankruptcy-remote, wholly owned indirect subsidiary of the Company, completed a refinancing transaction under which the Master Issuer issued Series 2018-1 3.573% Fixed Rate Senior Secured Notes, Class A-2-I (the \"Series 2018-1 Class A-2-I Notes\") with an initial principal amount of $450.0 million and Series 2018-1 3.884% Fixed Rate Senior Secured Notes, Class A-2-II (the \"Series 2018-1 Class A-2-II Notes\") with an initial principal amount of $475.0 million (collectively, the \"Series 2018-1 Class A-2 Notes\").  Interest payments on the Series 2018-1 Class A-2 Notes are payable on a quarterly basis.  The net proceeds from the sale of the Series 2018-1 Class A-2 Notes were used to redeem the Master Issuer's outstanding Series 2015-1 Class A-2-I Notes, to pay prepayment and transaction costs, and for general corporate purposes.. Concurrently, the Master Issuer entered into a revolving financing facility of Series 2018-1 Variable Funding Senior Secured Notes, Class A-1 (the \"Series 2018-1 Class A-1 Notes\" and, together with the Series 2018-1 Class A-2 Notes, the \"Series 2018-1 Senior Notes\"), which allows for the drawing of up to $150.0 million under the Series 2018-1 Class A-1 Notes, which include certain credit instruments, including a letter of credit facility.  On the closing date, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under its Series 2018-1 Class A-1 Notes.  The Series 2015-1 Class A-1 Notes were canceled on the closing date and the letters of credit outstanding against the Series 2015-1 Class A-1 Notes were transferred to the Series 2018-1 Class A-1 Notes.. In addition to the Series 2018-1 Senior Notes, the Master Issuer also has outstanding the Series 2015-1 4.080% Fixed Rate Senior Secured Notes, Class A-2-II (the \"Class A-2-II Notes\") and the Series 2015-1 4.497% Fixed Rate Senior Secured Notes, Class A-2-III, (the \"Class A-2-III Notes\") (collectively, the \"remaining Series 2015-1 Class A-2 Notes\") that were issued on June 1, 2015.  The Series 2018-1 Senior Notes and the remaining Series 2015-1 Class A-2 Notes are collectively the \"Senior Notes.\". 22. The Senior Notes are secured by a security interest in substantially all of the assets of the Master Issuer and certain other limited-purpose, bankruptcy remote, wholly-owned indirect subsidiaries of the Company that act as guarantors (collectively, the \"Securitization Entities\"), except for certain real estate assets and subject to certain limitations as set forth in the applicable Indenture (as amended and supplemented) and the Guarantee and Collateral Agreement.  The assets of the Securitization Entities include most of the domestic and certain of the foreign revenue-generating assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, which principally consist of franchise-related agreements, certain company-operated restaurants, intellectual property and license agreements for the use of intellectual property.. The Senior Notes are subject to a series of covenants and restrictions customary for transactions of this type, including (i) that the Master Issuer maintains specified reserve accounts to be used to make required payments in respect of the Senior Notes, (ii) provisions relating to optional and mandatory prepayments and the related payment of specified amounts, including specified make-whole payments in the case of the Series 2018-1 Class A-2 Notes and the remaining Series 2015-1 Class A-2 Notes under certain circumstances, (iii) certain indemnification payments in the event, among other things, the assets pledged as collateral for the Senior Notes are in stated ways defective or ineffective and (iv) covenants relating to recordkeeping, access to information and similar matters.  The Senior Notes are also subject to customary rapid amortization events provided for in the Indenture, including events tied to failure to maintain stated debt service coverage ratios, the sum of global gross sales for specified restaurants being below certain levels on certain measurement dates, certain manager termination events, an event of default, and the failure to repay or refinance the Series 2018-1 Class A-2 Notes or the remaining Series 2015-1 Class A-2 Notes on the applicable scheduled maturity date.  The Senior Notes are also subject to certain customary events of default, including events relating to non-payment of required interest, principal, or other amounts due on or with respect to the Senior Notes, failure to comply with covenants within certain time frames, certain bankruptcy events, breaches of specified representations and warranties, failure of security interests to be effective, and certain judgments.. In the event that a rapid amortization event occurs under the Indenture (including, without limitation, upon an event of default under the Indenture or the failure to repay the securitized debt at the end of the applicable term), the funds available to the Company would be reduced or eliminated, which would in turn reduce our ability to operate or grow our business.  If the Company's subsidiaries are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service their debt obligations, they may need to refinance or restructure debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital.  If the Company's subsidiaries are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, they may not be able to meet debt payment and other obligations.. The Company has a significant amount of debt outstanding. Such indebtedness, along with the other contractual commitments of its subsidiaries, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations.. The Company has approximately $2.8 billion of outstanding debt, including debt issued in the securitization transaction on June 1, 2015 and the refinancing transaction that was completed on January 17, 2018.  Additionally, a subsidiary of the Company has issued the Series 2018-1 Class A-1 Notes, which will allow the subsidiary to borrow amounts from time to time on a revolving basis, up to an aggregate principal amount of $150.0 million.. This level of debt could have significant consequences on the Company's future operations, including:. • making it more difficult to meet payment and other obligations under outstanding debt;. • resulting in an event of default if the Company's subsidiaries fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in debt agreements, which event of default could result in all of the Company's subsidiaries' debt becoming immediately due and payable;. • reducing the availability of the Company's cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting the Company's ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes;. • subjecting the Company to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on indebtedness with variable interest rates;. • limiting the Company's flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing its vulnerability to, changes in the Company's business, the industry in which it operates and the general economy; and. • placing the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that are less leveraged.. 23. In addition, certain of the Company's subsidiaries also have significant contractual requirements for the purchase of soft drinks.  If consumer preferences change and the Company's customers purchase fewer soft drinks than expected or estimated, such contractual commitments may adversely affect the financial condition of the Company.  The Company has also provided loan guarantees to various lenders on behalf of franchisees entering into debt arrangements for new restaurant development and equipment financing.  Certain subsidiaries also guarantee or are contingently liable for certain leases of their respective franchisees for which they have been indemnified.  In addition, certain subsidiaries also guarantee or are contingently liable for certain leases of their respective franchisees for which they have not been indemnified.  These commitments could have an adverse effect on the Company's liquidity and the ability of its subsidiaries to meet payment obligations.. The ability to meet payment and other obligations under the debt instruments of the Company's subsidiaries depends on their ability to generate significant cash flow in the future.  This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, as well as other factors that are beyond the Company's control.  There can be no assurance that the Company's business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to it under existing or any future credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable its subsidiaries to meet their debt payment obligations and to fund other liquidity needs.  If the Company's subsidiaries are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service their debt obligations, they may need to refinance or restructure debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital.  If the Company's subsidiaries are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, they may not be able to meet debt payment and other obligations.. In addition, the Company may incur additional indebtedness in the future.  If new debt or other liabilities are added to the Company's current consolidated debt levels, the related risks that it now faces could intensify.. The securitization transaction documents impose certain restrictions on the activities of the Company and its subsidiaries.. The Indenture and the management agreement entered into between a subsidiary of the Company and the Indenture trustee (the \"Management Agreement\") contain various covenants that limit the Company's and its subsidiaries' ability to engage in specified types of transactions.  For example, the Indenture and the Management Agreement contain covenants that, among other things, restrict, subject to certain exceptions, the ability of certain subsidiaries to:. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness;. • sell certain assets;. • create or incur liens on certain assets to secure indebtedness; or. • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of their assets.. As a result of these restrictions, the Company may not have adequate resources or flexibility to continue to manage the business and provide for growth of the Wendy's system, including product development and marketing for the Wendy's brand, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's future growth prospects, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. To service debt and meet its other cash needs, Wendy's will require a significant amount of cash, which may not be generated or available to it.. The ability of Wendy's to make payments on, repay or refinance its debt, including debt issued in the securitization transaction on June 1, 2015 and the refinancing transaction completed on January 17, 2018, and any additional debt, and to fund planned capital expenditures, dividends and other cash needs will depend largely upon its future operating performance.  Future performance, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.  In addition, the ability of Wendy's to borrow funds in the future to make payments on its debt will depend on the satisfaction of the covenants in its credit facilities and other debt agreements, including those for the debt issued in the securitization transaction on June 1, 2015 and the refinancing transaction completed on January 17, 2018, and other agreements it may enter into in the future.  Specifically, Wendy's will need to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial condition tests.  There is no assurance that the Wendy's business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available under its credit facilities or from other sources in an amount sufficient to enable it to pay its debt or to fund its or the Company's dividend and other liquidity needs.. 24. There can be no assurance regarding whether or to what extent the Company will pay dividends on its Common Stock in the future.. Holders of the Company's Common Stock will only be entitled to receive such dividends as its Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments.  Any dividends will be made at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on the Company's earnings, financial condition, cash requirements and such other factors as the Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time.. Because the Company is a holding company, its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent upon cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments on hand and cash flows from its subsidiaries.  The ability of its subsidiaries to pay cash dividends and/or make loans or advances to the holding company will be dependent upon their respective abilities to achieve sufficient cash flows after satisfying their respective cash requirements, including subsidiary-level debt service and revolving credit agreements, to enable the payment of such dividends or the making of such loans or advances.  The ability of any of its subsidiaries to pay cash dividends or other payments to the Company will also be limited by restrictions in debt instruments currently existing or subsequently entered into by such subsidiaries, which is described earlier in this Item 1A.. A substantial amount of the Company's Common Stock is concentrated in the hands of certain stockholders.. Nelson Peltz, the Company's Chairman and former Chief Executive Officer, Peter May, the Company's Vice Chairman and former President and Chief Operating Officer, and Edward Garden, who resigned as a director of the Company on December 14, 2015, beneficially own shares of the Company's outstanding Common Stock that collectively constitute more than 20% of its total voting power as of February 20, 2018.  Messrs. Peltz, May and Garden may, from time to time, acquire beneficial ownership of additional shares of Common Stock.. On December 1, 2011, the Company entered into an agreement (the \"Trian Agreement\") with Messrs. Peltz, May and Garden, and several of their affiliates (the \"Covered Persons\").  Pursuant to the Trian Agreement, the Board of Directors, including a majority of the independent directors, approved, for purposes of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (\"Section 203\"), the Covered Persons becoming the owners (as defined in Section 203(c)(9) of the DGCL) of or acquiring an aggregate of up to (and including), but not more than, 32.5% (subject to certain adjustments set forth in the Agreement) of the outstanding shares of the Company's Common Stock, such that no such persons would be subject to the restrictions set forth in Section 203 solely as a result of such ownership.  Certain other provisions of the Trian Agreement terminated when the Covered Persons' beneficial ownership of the Company's Common Stock decreased to less than 25% of the outstanding voting power of the Company in January, 2014.. This concentration of ownership gives Messrs. Peltz, May and Garden significant influence over the outcome of actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.  They are also in a position to have significant influence to prevent or cause a change in control of the Company.  If in the future Messrs. Peltz, May and Garden were to acquire more than a majority of the Company's outstanding voting power, they would be able to determine the outcome of the election of members of the Board of Directors and the outcome of corporate actions requiring majority stockholder approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.  They would also be in a position to prevent or cause a change in control of the Company.. The Company's certificate of incorporation contains certain anti-takeover provisions and permits our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and limits its ability to raise capital from affiliates.. Certain provisions in the Company's certificate of incorporation are intended to discourage or delay a hostile takeover of control of the Company.  The Company's certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of shares of \"blank check\" preferred stock, which will have such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.  Accordingly, the Board of Directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power and other rights of the holders of its common stock.  The preferred stock could be used to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company that is determined by the Board of Directors to be undesirable.  Although the Company has no present intention to issue any shares of preferred stock, it cannot assure that it will not do so in the future.. The Company's certificate of incorporation prohibits the issuance of preferred stock to affiliates, unless offered ratably to the holders of the Company's Common Stock, subject to an exception in the event that the Company is in financial distress and the issuance is approved by its audit committee.  This prohibition limits the ability to raise capital from affiliates.. 25"
