[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The risks described below are not the only ones we face in our business. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed.. 14. Table of Contents. DUE TO INCREASED COMPETITION, WESBANCO MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN BANKING CUSTOMERS AT CURRENT LEVELS.. WesBanco operates in a highly competitive banking and financial industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes. WesBanco faces banking competition in all the markets it serves from the following:. <U+0095>    local, regional and national banks;. <U+0095>    savings and loans;. <U+0095>    internet banks;. <U+0095>    credit unions;. <U+0095>    payday lenders and money services businesses;. <U+0095>    finance companies;. <U+0095>    online trading and robo-advisors;. <U+0095>    financial technology companies and other non-bank lenders; and. <U+0095>    brokerage firms serving WesBanco's market areas.. In particular, WesBanco's competitors include several major national financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions may have products and services not offered by WesBanco such as new payment system technologies and cryptocurrency, which may cause current and potential customers to choose those institutions. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits and range and quality of services provided. Competitively priced deposits from other banks may cause a loss of despoits to be replaced by more expensive wholesale funding. WesBanco also faces competition from financial technology (\"FinTech\") companies. In addition to providing products and services traditionally offered by banks, some FinTech companies allow customers to complete financial transactions without the need for bank intermediaries. This could result in the loss of revenue from transaction fees and fewer customer accounts. If WesBanco is unable to attract new and retain current customers, loan and deposit growth could decrease, causing WesBanco's results of operations and financial condition to be negatively impacted.. WESBANCO MAY NOT BE ABLE TO EXPAND ITS TRUST AND INVESTMENT SERVICES SEGMENT AND RETAIN ITS CURRENT CUSTOMERS.. WesBanco may not be able to attract new and retain current investment management clients due to competition from the following:. <U+0095>    commercial banks and trust companies;. <U+0095>    mutual fund companies;. <U+0095>    investment advisory firms;. <U+0095>    law firms;. <U+0095>    brokerage firms; and. <U+0095>    other financial services companies.. Its ability to successfully attract and retain investment management clients is dependent upon its ability to compete with competitors' investment products, level of investment performance, client services and marketing. 15. Table of Contents. and distribution capabilities. Due to changes in economic conditions, the performance of the trust and investment services segment may be negatively impacted by the financial markets in which investment clients' assets are invested, causing clients to seek other alternative investment options. If WesBanco is not successful, its results from operations and financial position may be negatively impacted.. CUSTOMERS MAY DEFAULT ON THE REPAYMENT OF LOANS WHICH COULD SIGNIFICANTLY IMPACT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS THROUGH INCREASES IN THE PROVISION AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES.. The Bank's customers may default on the repayment of loans, which may negatively impact WesBanco's earnings due to loss of principal and interest income. Increased operating expenses may result from the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and work-out of the loan. Collection efforts may or may not be successful causing WesBanco to write off the loan or repossess the collateral securing the loan, which may or may not exceed the balance of the loan.. WesBanco maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, to provide for probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio. Management evaluates the appropriateness of the allowance for loan losses at least quarterly, which includes testing certain individual loans as well as collective pools of loans for impairment. This evaluation includes an assessment of actual loss experience within each category of the portfolio, individual commercial and commercial real estate loans that exhibit credit weakness; current economic events, including employment statistics, trends in bankruptcy filings, and other pertinent factors; industry or geographic concentrations; and regulatory guidance.. WesBanco's regulatory agencies periodically review the allowance for loan losses. Based on their assessment the regulatory agencies may require WesBanco to adjust the allowance for loan losses. These adjustments could negatively impact WesBanco's results of operations or financial position.. ECONOMIC CONDITIONS IN WESBANCO'S MARKET AREAS COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT EARNINGS.. WesBanco Bank serves both individuals and business customers throughout West Virginia, Ohio, western Pennsylvania, Kentucky and southern Indiana. The substantial majority of WesBanco's loan portfolio is to individuals and businesses in these markets. As a result, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of WesBanco are affected by local and regional economic conditions. A downturn in these economies could have a negative impact on WesBanco and the ability of the Bank's customers to repay their loans. The value of the collateral securing loans to borrowers may also decline as the economy declines. As a result, deteriorating economic conditions in these markets could cause a decline in the overall quality of WesBanco's loan portfolio requiring WesBanco to charge-off a higher percentage of loans and/or increase its allowance for loan losses. A decline in economic conditions in these markets may also force customers to utilize deposits held by WesBanco Bank in order to pay current expenses causing the Bank's deposit base to shrink. As a result the Bank may have to borrow funds at higher rates in order to meet liquidity needs. Lower oil and gas prices in prior years have reduced shale gas activity in the region, which somewhat negatively impacted local and regional economic conditions, affecting both commercial and retail customers, resulting in lower deposits and credit deterioration in the loan portfolio. While current prices for oil and gas have increased, and shale gas activity has increased, these markets are volatile and lower prices could return in the near future. These events may have a negative impact on WesBanco's earnings and financial condition.. CURRENT MARKET INTEREST RATES AND COST OF FUNDS MAY NEGATIVELY IMPACT WESBANCO'S BANKING BUSINESS.. Fluctuations in interest rates may negatively impact the business of the Bank. The Bank's main source of income from operations is net interest income, which is equal to the difference between the interest income. 16. Table of Contents. received on interest-bearing assets (usually loans and investment securities) and the interest expense incurred in connection with interest-bearing liabilities (usually deposits and borrowings). These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond WesBanco's control, including general economic conditions, both domestic and foreign, and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. WesBanco Bank's net interest income can be affected significantly by changes in market interest rates. Changes in relative interest rates may reduce the Bank's net interest income as the difference between interest income and interest expense decreases. As a result, the Bank has adopted asset and liability management policies to minimize the potential adverse effects of changes in interest rates on net interest income, primarily by altering the mix and maturity of loans, investments and funding sources. However, even with these policies in place, WesBanco cannot be certain that changes in interest rates or the shape of the interest rate yield curve will not negatively impact its results of operations or financial position. The higher interest rates in 2017 caused a decrease in fair value of certain lower-rate securities within our investment portfolio of which the unrealized losses were recorded in other comprehensive income.. In the current rising rate environment, WesBanco's cost of funds for banking operations may increase at a faster pace than asset yields. Cost of funds also may increase as a result of future general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. The Bank has traditionally obtained funds principally through deposits and borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB), correspondent banks, and other wholesale borrowing sources. As a general matter, deposits are a cheaper source of funds than borrowings because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for borrowings. If, as a result of general economic conditions, market interest rates, competitive pressures or higher deposit betas in relation to increases in federal funds rate increases, the value of deposits at the Bank decreases relative to its overall banking operations, the Bank may have to rely more heavily on borrowings as a source of funds in the future.. SIGNIFICANT DECLINES IN U.S. AND GLOBAL MARKETS COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON WESBANCO'S EARNINGS.. The capital and credit markets could experience extreme disruption. These conditions result in less liquidity, greater volatility, widening of credit spreads and a lack of price transparency in certain asset types. In many cases, markets could exert downward pressure on stock prices, security prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. Sustained weakness in business and economic conditions in any or all of the domestic or foreign financial markets could result in credit deterioration in investment securities held by us, rating agency downgrades for such securities or other market factors that (such as lack of liquidity for re-sales, absence of reliable pricing information or unanticipated changes in the competitive market) could result in us having to recognize other-than-temporary impairment in the value of such investment securities, with a corresponding charge against earnings. Furthermore, our pension assets are primarily invested in equity and debt securities, and weakness in capital and credit markets could result in deterioration of these assets, and changes in certain key pension assumptions based on current interest rates, long-term rates of return and other economic or actuarial assumptions may increase minimum funding contributions and future pension expense. If these markets were to deteriorate further, these conditions may be material to WesBanco's ability to access capital and may adversely impact results of operations.. Further, WesBanco's trust and investment services income could be impacted by fluctuations in the securities market. A portion of this revenue is based on the value of the underlying investment portfolios. If the values of those investment portfolios decline, the Bank's revenue could be negatively impacted.. WESBANCO COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THE RECENT ADOPTION OF U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX REFORM.. On December 22, 2017, H.R.1, known as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,\" was signed into law. Among other things, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act lowers the corporate tax rate to 21%, eliminating current brackets that have a maximum tax rate of 35%. As a result of the reduction of the corporate tax rate to 21%, companies revalued their. 17. Table of Contents. deferred tax assets and liabilities as of the date of enactment, and any resulting tax effects will need to be accounted for in the reporting period of enactment. WesBanco has undertaken a re-valuation of its deferred tax assets and liabilities, and the net deferred tax assets were written down $12.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2017. The remeasurement should be in accordance with SEC Staff Bulletin No. 18, which provides SEC staff guidance for the applications of ASC Topic 740, Income Tax, in the reporting period in which the 2017 Tax Act was signed into law. In addition, the new law could have an adverse impact on WesBanco's municipal bond portfolio and low income housing tax credits. Since the new law is reducing the federal income tax rate to 21%, the benefit of these investments could deteriorate as corporations' income tax expense declines.. RISKS INHERENT IN MUNICIPAL BONDS COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON WESBANCO'S EARNINGS.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 39% of WesBanco's total securities portfolio was invested in municipal bonds. Although WesBanco's municipal portfolio is broadly spread across the U.S., any downturn in the economy of a state or municipality in which WesBanco holds municipal obligations could increase the default risk of the respective debt. In addition, a portion of WesBanco's municipal bond portfolio is comprised of Build America bonds. Due to current government sequester reducing the interest subsidy that the government provides to the issuing municipalities, extraordinary redemption provisions (ERP) may be executed by the municipality if it is in their favor to do so. There is a risk that when an ERP is executed, WesBanco may not recover its amortized cost in the bond if it was purchased at a premium. Credit risks are also prevalent when downgrades of credit ratings are issued by major credit rating agencies, which are caused by creditworthiness issues of both bond insurers and the municipality itself. Credit rating downgrades to a non-investment grade level may force WesBanco to sell a municipal bond at a price where amortized cost may not be recovered. The enacted Federal tax reform legislation reduces the corporate income tax rate to 21%. The decrease in the tax rate could significantly reduce the demand of tax-exempt municipal bonds causing the current market values to decline. Rising interest rates could also cause the current market values of our municipal bond portfolio to decline as they all have a fixed interest component. Any of the above default risks, early redemption risks and credit risks could cause WesBanco to take impairment charges, which could be significant, that would negatively impact earnings.. WESBANCO MAY BE REQUIRED TO WRITE DOWN GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS, CAUSING ITS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS TO BE NEGATIVELY AFFECTED.. When WesBanco acquires a business, a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition is allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The amount of the purchase price which is allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired. WesBanco's goodwill is 41% and 43% of stockholders' equity as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Under current accounting standards, if WesBanco determines that goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, it is required to write down the carrying value of these assets. WesBanco conducts an annual review to determine whether goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets are impaired. WesBanco completed such an impairment analysis in 2017 and concluded that no impairment charge was necessary for the year ended December 31, 2017. WesBanco cannot provide assurance that it will not be required to take an impairment charge in the future. Any impairment charge would have a negative effect on its shareholders' equity and financial results and may cause a decline in our stock price.. WESBANCO IS SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND SUPERVISION.. WesBanco is subject to extensive federal and state regulation, supervision and examination. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, rather than corporate shareholders. These regulations affect WesBanco's lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, operations and growth, among other things. These regulations also impose obligations to maintain appropriate policies, procedure and controls. Congress and. 18. Table of Contents. federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect WesBanco in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject WesBanco to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products that could be offered, and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on WesBanco's business, financial condition and result of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, WesBanco had $164.3 million in subordinated and junior subordinated debt presented as a separate category of long-term debt on its Consolidated Balance Sheets, which includes $138.6 million in junior subordinated debt. For regulatory purposes, Trust Preferred Securities totaling $134.3 million underlying such junior subordinated debt are included in Tier 1 capital in accordance with regulatory reporting requirements. On March 1, 2005, the Federal Reserve Board adopted a rule that retains trust preferred securities in Tier 1 capital, but with stricter quantitative limits and clearer qualitative standards. Under the rule, the aggregate amount of trust preferred securities and certain other capital elements is limited to 25% of Tier 1 capital elements, net of goodwill. The amount of trust preferred securities and certain other elements in excess of the limit can be included in Tier 2 capital, subject to restrictions. The Dodd-Frank Act required the federal banking agencies to develop new consolidated capital requirements applicable to bank holding companies and banks. Rules issued in 2013 generally exclude trust preferred securities from Tier 1 capital beginning in 2015, however, a grandfather provision will permit bank holding companies with consolidated assets of less than $15 billion, such as WesBanco, to continue counting existing trust preferred securities as Tier 1 capital until they mature. For bank holding companies with consolidated assets greater than $15 billion, the existing trust preferred securities would be included as Tier 2 capital until the instruments are redeemed or mature.. In addition, new international capital standards known as Basel III, which were implemented by a U.S. federal banking agencies' joint final rule issued in July 2013, and effective January 1, 2015, further increases the minimum capital requirements applicable to WesBanco and the Bank, which may negatively impact both entities. Additional information about these changes in capital requirements are described above in \"Item 1. Business - Capital Requirements.\". Regulation of WesBanco and its subsidiaries is expected to continue to expand in scope and complexity in the future. These laws are expected to have the effect of increasing WesBanco's costs of doing business and reducing its revenues, and may limit its ability to pursue business opportunities or otherwise adversely affect its business and financial condition. The Dodd-Frank Act and other laws, as well as rules implementing or related to them, may adversely affect WesBanco. Specifically, any governmental or regulatory action having the effect of requiring WesBanco to obtain additional capital or increase short-term liquidity could reduce earnings and have a material dilutive effect on current shareholders, including the Dodd-Frank Act source of strength requirement that bank holding companies make capital infusions into a troubled subsidiary bank. Legislation and regulation of debit card fees, credit cards and other bank services, as well as changes in WesBanco's practices relating to those and other bank services, may affect WesBanco's revenue and other financial results. Additional information about increased regulation is provided in \"Item 1. Business\" under the headings \"Supervision and Regulation,\" \"Holding Company Regulations,\" \"Capital Requirements,\" \"Dodd-Frank Act,\" and \"Consumer Protection Laws.\". ADDITIONAL GROWTH WILL SUBJECT WESBANCO TO ADDITIONAL REGULATION AND INCREASED SUPERVISION.. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes additional regulatory requirements on institutions with $10 billion or more in assets. WesBanco had $9.8 billion in assets as of December 31, 2017 and expects to have over $10 billion in assets with the merger of FTSB in 2018, thus WesBanco would become subject to the following:. <U+0095>    Supervision, examination and enforcement by the CFPB with respect to consumer financial protection laws;. 19. Table of Contents. <U+0095>    Regulatory stress testing requirements, whereby WesBanco would be required to conduct an annual stress test (using assumptions for baseline, adverse and severely adverse scenarios);. <U+0095>    A modified methodology for calculating FDIC insurance assessments and potentially higher assessment rates as a result of institutions with $10 billion or more in assets being required to bear a greater portion of the cost of raising the reserve ratio;. <U+0095>    Heightened compliance standards under the Volcker Rule;. <U+0095>    Significantly reduced debit card interchange revenue from applicability of the Durbin Amendment; and. <U+0095>    Enhanced supervision as a larger financial institution;. <U+0095>    Registration for its derivatives and mandatory usage of a Central Clearinghouse (CCP) for clearing.. The imposition of these regulatory requirements and increased supervision may require additional commitment of financial resources to regulatory compliance and may increase WesBanco's cost of operations. Further, the results of the stress testing process may lead WesBanco to retain additional capital or alter the mix of its capital components.. LIMITED AVAILABILITY OF BORROWINGS AND LIQUIDITY FROM THE FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK SYSTEM AND OTHER SOURCES COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT EARNINGS.. WesBanco Bank is currently a member bank of the Federal Home Loan Bank (\"FHLB\") of Pittsburgh, and while it retains certain short-term borrowings from the FHLB of Cincinnati from prior bank acquisitions, it is no longer considered a member bank of such FHLB. Membership in this system of quasi-governmental, regional home-loan oriented agency banks allows us to participate in various programs offered by the FHLB. We borrow funds from the FHLB, which are secured by a blanket lien on certain residential and commercial mortgage loans, and if applicable, investment securities with collateral values in excess of the outstanding balances. Future earnings shortfalls and minimum capital requirements of the FHLB may impact the collateral necessary to secure borrowings and limit the borrowings extended to their member banks, as well as require additional capital contributions by member banks. The FHLB's rating assigned to WesBanco Bank may also negatively impact the amount of term collateral and other conditions imposed by the FHLB upon WesBanco Bank. Should these situations occur, WesBanco's short-term liquidity needs could be negatively impacted. If WesBanco was restricted from using FHLB advances due to weakness in the system or with the FHLB of Pittsburgh, WesBanco may be forced to find alternative funding sources. If WesBanco is required to rely more heavily on higher cost funding sources, revenues may not increase proportionately to cover these costs, which would adversely affect WesBanco's results of operations and financial position.. THE SOUNDNESS OF OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT WESBANCO.. Financial service institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. WesBanco has exposure to various industries and counterparties, and WesBanco routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutions. As a result, a default by, or potential default by, a financial institution could result in market-wide liquidity problems, losses or other financial institution defaults. Many of these transactions could expose WesBanco to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. These losses or defaults could adversely effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. WESBANCO'S FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS DEPEND ON THE SUCCESSFUL GROWTH OF ITS SUBSIDIARIES.. WesBanco's primary business activity for the foreseeable future will be to act as the holding company of its banking and other subsidiaries. Therefore, WesBanco's future profitability will depend on the success and growth of these subsidiaries. In the future, part of WesBanco's growth may come from buying other banks and. 20. Table of Contents. buying or establishing other companies. Such entities may not be profitable after they are purchased or established, and they may lose money or be dilutive to earnings per share, particularly for the first few years. A new bank or company may bring with it unexpected liabilities, bad loans, or poor employee relations, or the new bank or company may lose customers and the associated revenue. Dilution of book and tangible book value may occur as a result of an acquisition that may not be earned back for several years, if at all.. WESBANCO'S ABILITY TO PAY DIVIDENDS IS LIMITED, AND COMMON STOCK DIVIDENDS MAY HAVE TO BE REDUCED OR ELIMINATED.. Holders of shares of WesBanco's common stock are entitled to dividends if, when, and as declared by WesBanco's Board of Directors out of funds legally available for that purpose. Although the Board of Directors has declared cash dividends in the past, the current ability to pay dividends is largely dependent upon the receipt of dividends from the Bank. Federal and state laws impose restrictions on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends, which restrictions are more fully described in \"Item 1. Business - Payment of Dividends.\" In general, future dividend policy is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon a number of factors, including WesBanco's and the Bank's future earnings, liquidity and capital requirements, regulatory constraints and financial condition.. FUTURE EXPANSION BY WESBANCO MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AS WELL AS DILUTE THE INTERESTS OF OUR SHAREHOLDERS AND NEGATIVELY AFFECT THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK.. WesBanco may acquire other financial institutions, or branches or assets of other financial institutions, in the future. WesBanco may also open new branches and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. Any such expansion of our business will involve a number of expenses and risks, which may include:. <U+0095>    the time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential expansions;. <U+0095>    the potential inaccuracy of estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risk with respect to target institutions;. <U+0095>    the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring local management and opening new offices, and the delay between commencing these activities and the generation of profits from the expansion;. <U+0095>    the risk we could discover undisclosed liabilities resulting from any acquisitions for which we may become responsible;. <U+0095>    our financing of the expansion;. <U+0095>    the diversion of management's attention to the negotiation of a transaction and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combining businesses;. <U+0095>    entry into unfamiliar markets;. <U+0095>    the introduction of new products and services into our existing business;. <U+0095>    the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on our results of operations;. <U+0095>    the risk that benefits such as enhanced earnings that we anticipate from any new acquisitions may not develop and future results of the combined companies may be materially lower from those estimated; and. <U+0095>    the risk of loss of key employees and customers.. We can give no assurance that integration efforts for any future acquisitions will be successful. We may issue equity securities in connection with acquisitions, which could dilute the economic and voting interests of our existing shareholders. WesBanco has a proposed merger with First Sentry Bancshares, Inc. that is anticipated to close early in the second quarter of 2018.. 21. Table of Contents. SUITABLE ACQUISITION OPPORTUNITIES MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE TO WESBANCO IN THE FUTURE.. WesBanco continually evaluates opportunities to acquire other businesses. However, WesBanco may not have the opportunity to make suitable acquisitions on favorable terms in the future, which could negatively impact the growth of its business. WesBanco expects that other banking and financial companies, many of which have significantly greater resources, will compete to acquire compatible businesses. This competition could increase prices for acquisitions that WesBanco would likely pursue, and its competitors may have greater resources than it does. Also, acquisitions of regulated businesses such as banks are subject to various regulatory approvals. If WesBanco fails to receive the appropriate regulatory approvals, it will not be able to consummate an acquisition that it believes is in its best interests.. HIGHER FDIC DEPOSIT INSURANCE PREMIUMS AND ASSESSMENTS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT WESBANCO'S FINANCIAL CONDITION.. Since 2008, the economic environment caused higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the deposit insurance fund. In order to restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC has in the past significantly increased the assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions, and in November 2009, it adopted a rule requiring banks to prepay their FDIC assessments for years through 2012, which accompanied a rate increase beginning in 2011. In 2016, the FDIC achieved their targeted reserve fund ratio of 1.15 percent, which allowed banks with total assets of less than $10 billion to have a reduction in costs. Banks greater than $10 billion in total assets will continue to have higher assessed rates until the reserve fund ratio reaches 1.35 percent, including a 4.5 basis point surcharge until late 2018. Additionally, when WesBanco's total assets surpass $10 billion, under the Dodd Frank Act, to the extent the FDIC increases reserves against future losses, the increased assessments (including the above mentioned surcharge) are to be borne primarily by institutions with assets of greater than $10 billion. Per the enacted Federal tax reform legislation, FDIC insurance premiums are no longer fully deductible for federal income tax purposes for banks above $10 billion in size. Additional increases in FDIC insurance premiums and future special assessments may adversely affect WesBanco's results of operations and financial condition.. A NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARD WILL RESULT IN A SIGNIFICANT CHANGE IN HOW WE RECOGNIZE CREDIT LOSSES AND MAY HAVE A MATERIAL IMPACT ON OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION OR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.. In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") issued an accounting standard update, \"Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326), Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments,\" which replaces the current \"incurred loss\" model for recognizing credit losses with an \"expected loss\" model referred to as the Current Expected Credit Loss (\"CECL\") model. Under the CECL model, we will be required to present certain financial assets carried at amortized cost, such as loans held for investment and held-to-maturity debt securities, at the net amount expected to be collected. The measurement of expected credit losses is to be based on information about past events, including historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the reported amount. This measurement will take place at the time the financial asset is first added to the balance sheet and periodically thereafter. This differs significantly from the \"incurred loss\" model required under current generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\"), which delays recognition until it is probable a loss has been incurred. Accordingly, we expect that the adoption of the CECL model will materially affect how we determine our allowance for loan losses and could require us to significantly increase our allowance. Moreover, the CECL model may create more volatility in the level of our allowance for loan losses. If we are required to materially increase our level of allowance for loan losses for any reason, such increase could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The new CECL standard will become effective for us for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 and for interim periods within those fiscal years. We are currently evaluating the impact the CECL model will. 22. Table of Contents. have on our accounting, but we expect to recognize a one-time cumulative-effect adjustment to our allowance for loan losses as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the new standard is effective, consistent with regulatory expectations set forth in interagency guidance issued at the end of 2016. We cannot yet determine the magnitude of any such one-time cumulative adjustment or of the overall impact of the new standard on our financial condition or results of operations.. INTERRUPTION TO OUR INFORMATION SYSTEMS OR BREACHES IN SECURITY COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT WESBANCO'S OPERATIONS.. WesBanco relies on information systems and communications for operating and monitoring all major aspects of business, as well as internal management functions. Any failure, interruption, intrusion or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the WesBanco customer relationship, management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While WesBanco has policies, procedures and technical safeguards designed to prevent or limit the effect of any failure, interruption, intrusion or security breach of its information systems, and also performs testing of business continuity and disaster recovery plans, there can be no absolute assurance that the above-noted issues will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed.. There have been efforts on the part of third parties to breach data security at financial institutions. The ability of our customers to bank remotely, including online and through mobile devices, requires secure transmission of confidential information and increases the risk of data security breaches. Because the techniques used to attack financial services company communications and information systems change frequently (and generally increase in sophistication), often attacks are not recognized until launched against a target, may be supported by foreign governments or other well-financed entities, and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, we may be unable to address these techniques in advance of attacks, including by implementing adequate preventative measures. Certain financial institutions in the United States have also experienced attacks from technically sophisticated and well-resourced third parties that were intended to disrupt normal business activities by making internet banking systems inaccessible to customers for extended periods. These \"denial-of-service\" attacks, if attempted, would require substantial resources to defend, and may affect customer satisfaction and behavior.. Cyber-attacks on third party retailers or other business establishments that widely accept debit card or check payments could compromise sensitive bank customer information, such as debit card and account numbers. Such an attack could result in significant costs to the bank, such as costs to reimburse customers, reissue debit cards and open new customer accounts.. The occurrence of any such failure, disruption or security breach of WesBanco's information systems, particularly if widespread or resulting in financial losses to our customers, could damage WesBanco's reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject WesBanco to additional regulatory scrutiny, and expose WesBanco to civil litigation and possible financial liability. In addition, the prevalence of cyber-attacks and other efforts to breach or disrupt our systems has led, and will continue to lead, to costs to WesBanco with respect to prevention and mitigation of these risks, as well as costs reimbursing customers for losses suffered as a result of these actions. Successful attacks or systems failures at other large financial institutions, whether or not WesBanco is included, could lead to a general loss of customer confidence in financial institutions with a potential negative impact on WesBanco's business, additional demands on the part of our regulators, and increased costs to deal with risks identified as a result of the problems affecting others. The risks described above could have a material effect on WesBanco's business, results of operations and financial condition.. WESBANCO IS EXPOSED TO OPERATIONAL RISK THAT COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT THE COMPANY. WesBanco is exposed to multiple types of operational risk, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, clerical or record-keeping errors and computer or. 23. Table of Contents. telecommunications systems malfunctions. WesBanco's business is dependent on the processing of the ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. WesBanco could be materially and adversely affected if employees, clients, counterparties or other third parties caused an operational breakdown or failure, either as a result of human error, fraudulent manipulation or purposeful damage to any of our operations or systems.. LOSS OF KEY EMPLOYEES COULD IMPACT GROWTH AND EARNINGS AND MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON BUSINESS.. Our operating results and ability to adequately manage our growth are highly dependent on the services, managerial abilities and performance of our key employees, including executive officers and senior management. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of this management and personnel. The loss of services, or the inability to successfully complete planned or unplanned transitions of key personnel approaching normal retirement age, could have an adverse impact on WesBanco's business, operating results and financial condition because of their skills, knowledge of the local markets, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.. A HIGH PERCENTAGE OF WESBANCO'S LOAN PORTFOLIO IS IN WEST VIRGINIA, OHIO, PENNSYLVANIA, KENTUCKY, AND INDIANA AND IN COMMERCIAL AND RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE. DETERIORATIONS IN ECONOMIC CONDITIONS IN THIS AREA OR IN THE REAL ESTATE MARKET GENERALLY COULD BE MORE HARMFUL TO THE COMPANY COMPARED TO MORE DIVERSIFIED INSTITUTIONS.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 21% of WesBanco's loan portfolio was comprised of residential real estate loans, and 47% was comprised of commercial real estate loans.. Inherent risks of commercial real estate (\"CRE\") lending include the cyclical nature of the real estate market, construction risk and interest rate risk. The cyclical nature of real estate markets can cause CRE loans to suffer considerable distress. During these times of distress, a property's performance can be negatively affected by tenants' deteriorating credit strength and lease expirations in times of softening demand caused by economic deterioration or over-supply conditions. Even if borrowers are able to meet their payment obligations, they may find it difficult to refinance their full loan amounts at maturity due to declines in property value. Other risks associated with CRE lending include regulatory changes and environmental liability. Regulatory changes in tax legislation, zoning or similar external conditions including environmental liability may affect property values and the economic feasibility of existing and proposed real estate projects.. The company's CRE loan portfolio is concentrated in West Virginia, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Kentucky and Indiana. There are a wide variety of economic conditions within the local markets of the three states in which most of the company's CRE loan portfolio is situated. Rates of employment, consumer loan demand, household formation, and the level of economic activity can vary widely from state to state and among metropolitan areas, cities and towns. Metropolitan markets comprise various submarkets where property values and demand can be affected by many factors, such as demographic makeup, geographic features, transportation, recreation, local government, school systems, utility infrastructure, tax burden, building-stock age, zoning and building codes, and available land for development. As a result of the high concentration of the company's loan portfolio, it may be more sensitive, as compared to more diversified institutions, to future disruptions in and deterioration of this market, which could lead to losses which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of the company.. 24. Table of Contents. WESBANCO MAY NEED TO RAISE CAPITAL IN THE FUTURE, BUT CAPITAL MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE WHEN NEEDED OR AT ACCEPTABLE TERMS.. Federal and state banking regulators require WesBanco and its banking subsidiary, WesBanco Bank, to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. In addition, in the future WesBanco may need to raise additional capital to support its business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or WesBanco may otherwise elect to raise additional capital in anticipation of future growth opportunities. If WesBanco's total assets were to increase to $15 billion due to acquisitions, certain trust preferred securities would no longer be included in the Tier 1 capital of the risk-based capital guidelines, although it is expected it should count as Tier 2 capital. WesBanco has $138.6 million and $137.6 million in junior subordinated debt in its Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.. WesBanco's ability to raise additional capital for parent company or banking subsidiary needs will depend on conditions at that time in the capital markets, overall economic conditions, WesBanco's financial performance and condition, and other factors, many of which are outside our control. There is no assurance that, if needed, WesBanco will be able to raise additional capital or unsecured debt that may count as tier 2 capital on favorable terms or at all. An inability to raise additional capital may have a material adverse effect on our ability to expand operations, and on our financial condition, results of operations and future prospects."
