[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information included in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. The occurrence of any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements and estimates that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks and uncertainties described below.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We are directly dependent upon the condition of the aerospace industry, which is closely tied to global economic conditions, and if aerospace industry or the U.S. or global economy were to experience a recession, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted.. Demand for the products and services we offer are directly tied to the delivery of new aircraft, aircraft utilization, and repair of existing aircraft, which, in turn, are impacted by global economic conditions. For example, 2009 revenue passenger. 11. miles (RPMs) on commercial aircraft declined due to the global recession. During the same period, the industry experienced declines in large commercial, regional and business jet deliveries. While demand for commercial and regional jets recovered, business jet orders and deliveries remain well below their pre-recession peak, reflecting a deeper downturn in the last recession, changes in corporate spending patterns and an uncertain economic outlook. A slowdown in the global economy, or a return to a recession, would negatively impact the aerospace industry, and could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Military spending, including spending on the products we sell, is dependent upon national defense budgets, and a reduction in military spending could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. During the year ended September 30, 2017, 44% of our net sales were related to military aircraft. The military market is significantly dependent upon government budget trends, particularly the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) budget. Future DoD budgets could be negatively impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, a change in defense spending policy by the current and future presidential administrations and Congress, the U.S. government's budget deficits, spending priorities, the cost of sustaining the U.S. military presence in overseas operations and possible political pressure to reduce U.S. Government military spending, each of which could cause the DoD budget to decline. A decline in U.S. military expenditures could result in a reduction in military aircraft production, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In particular, military spending may be negatively impacted by the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the Budget Control Act), which was passed in August 2011. The Budget Control Act established limits on U.S. government discretionary spending, including a reduction of defense spending by approximately $490 billion between the 2012 and 2021 U.S. government fiscal years, and also provided that the defense budget would face \"sequestration\" cuts of up to an additional $500 billion during that same period to the extent that discretionary spending limits were exceeded. The impact of sequestration was reduced with respect to the government's 2014 and 2015 fiscal years, in exchange for extending sequestration into fiscal years 2022 and 2023, following the enactment of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 in December 2013. The impact of sequestration was further reduced with respect to the government's 2016 and 2017 fiscal years, following the enactment of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 in November 2015. Sequestration is currently scheduled to resume in the government's 2018 fiscal year. We are unable to predict the impact that the cuts associated with sequestration will ultimately have on funding for the military programs which we support. However, such cuts could result in reductions, delays or cancellations of these programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to unique business risks as a result of supplying equipment and services to the U.S. government directly and as a subcontractor, which could lead to a reduction in our net sales from, or the profitability of our supply arrangements with, the U.S. government.. Companies engaged in supplying defense-related equipment and services to U.S. government agencies are subject to business risks specific to the defense industry. We contract directly with the U.S. government and are also a subcontractor to customers contracting with the U.S. government. Accordingly, the U.S. government may unilaterally suspend or prohibit us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations, revoke required security clearance, reduce the value of existing contracts or audit our contract-related costs and fees. In addition, most of our U.S. government contracts and subcontracts can be terminated by the U.S. government or the contracting party, as applicable, at its convenience. Termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination.. In addition, we are subject to U.S. government inquiries and investigations, including periodic audits of costs that we determine are reimbursable under government contracts. U.S. government agencies routinely audit government contractors to review performance under contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards, as well as the adequacy of and compliance with internal control systems and policies. Any costs found to be misclassified or inaccurately allocated to a specific contract are not reimbursable, and to the extent already reimbursed, must be refunded. Also, any inadequacies in our systems and policies could result in payments being withheld, penalties and reduced future business. If a government inquiry or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, including contract termination, fines, forfeiture of fees, suspension of payment and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. government agencies, any of which could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are also subject to the federal False Claims Act, which provides for substantial civil penalties and treble damages where a contractor presents a false or fraudulent claim to the government for payment. Actions under the False Claims Act may be brought by the government or by other persons on behalf of the government (who may then share in any recovery).. 12. We do not have guaranteed future sales of the products we sell and when we enter into Contracts with our customers we generally take the risk of cost overruns, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and operating margins may be negatively affected if we purchase more products than our customers require, product costs increase unexpectedly, we experience high start-up costs on new Contracts or our Contracts are terminated.. A majority of our Contracts are long-term, fixed-price agreements with no guarantee of future sales volumes, and they may be terminated for convenience on short notice by our customers, often without meaningful penalties, and often provide that we are reimbursed for the cost of any inventory specifically procured for the customer or inventory that is not commonly sold to our other customers. In addition, we purchase inventory based on our forecasts of anticipated future customer demand. As a result, we may take the risk of having excess inventory if our customers do not place orders consistent with our forecasts, particularly with respect to inventory that has a more limited shelf-life. We also run the risk of not being able to pass along or otherwise recover unexpected increases in our product costs, including as a result of commodity price increases, which may increase above our established prices at the time we entered into the Contract and established prices for products we provide. When we are awarded new Contracts, particularly JIT contracts, we may incur high costs, including salary and overtime costs to hire and train on-site personnel, in the start-up phase of our performance. In the event that we purchase more products than our customers require, product costs increase unexpectedly, we experience high start-up costs on new Contracts or our Contracts are terminated, our business, financial condition, results of operations and operating margins could be negatively affected.. If we lose significant customers, significant customers materially reduce their purchase orders or significant programs on which we rely are delayed, scaled back or eliminated, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Our top ten customers for the year ended September 30, 2017 accounted for 48% of our net sales. A reduction in purchasing by or loss of one of our larger customers for any reason, including changes in manufacturing or procurement practices, loss of a customer as a result of the acquisition of such customer by a purchaser who does not fully utilize a distribution model or uses a competitor, in-sourcing by customers, a transfer of business to a competitor, an economic downturn, failure to adequately service our clients or to manage the implementation of new customer sites, decreased production or a strike, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As an example of changes in manufacturing practices that could impact us, OEMs such as Boeing and Airbus have incorporated a higher proportion of composite materials in some of the aircraft they manufacture. Aircraft utilizing composite materials generally require the use of significantly fewer C-class aerospace parts than new aircraft made of more traditional non-composite materials, although the parts used are generally higher priced than C-class aerospace parts used in non-composite aircraft structures. To the extent Boeing, Airbus and other customers increase their reliance on composite materials, they may materially reduce their purchase orders from us.. As an example of the potential loss of business due to customer in-sourcing, a major OEM is undertaking an initiative to cause its first and second tier suppliers to source certain OEM-specific materials, including fasteners, directly from the OEM itself, rather than through distributors such as us. If such initiative is broadly implemented by the OEM, or if other OEMs pursue similar initiatives, a portion of our sales to their suppliers, and consequently our business, financial condition and results of operations, could be adversely affected.. We expect to derive a significant portion of our net sales from certain aerospace programs in their early production stages. Our future growth will be dependent, in part, upon our sales to various OEMs and subcontractors as related to such programs. If production of any of the programs we support is terminated or delayed, or if our sales to customers affiliated with these programs are reduced or eliminated, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We operate in a highly competitive market and our failure to compete effectively may negatively impact our results of operations.. We operate in a highly competitive global industry and compete against a number of companies, including divisions of larger companies and certain of our suppliers, some of which may have significantly greater financial resources than we do and therefore may be able to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements than we can. Our competitors consist of both U.S. and foreign companies and range in size from divisions of large public corporations to small privately held entities. We believe that our ability to compete depends on superior customer service and support, on-time delivery, sufficient inventory availability, competitive pricing and effective quality assurance programs. To remain competitive, we may have to adjust the. 13. prices of some of the products and services we sell and continue investing in our procurement, supply-chain management and sales and marketing functions, the costs of which could negatively impact our results of operations.. In addition, we face competition for our Contract customers from both competitors in our industry and the in-sourcing of supply-chain management by our customers themselves. If any of our Contract customers decides to in-source the services we provide or switches to one of our competitors, we would be adversely affected.. We may be unable to effectively manage our inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Due to the lead times required by many of our suppliers, we typically order products, particularly hardware products, in advance of expected sales, and the volume of such orders may be significant. Lead times generally range from several weeks up to two years, depending on industry conditions, which makes it difficult to successfully manage our inventory as we plan for future demand. In addition, demand for our products can fluctuate significantly, which can also negatively impact our cash flows and inventory level. For example, in the three months ended September 30, 2015, we determined that inventory previously purchased in connection with a specific program which was subsequently terminated had no alternative use, and we recorded a provision to write-down such inventory by of $33.0 million.. If suppliers are unable to supply us with the products we sell in a timely manner, inadequate quantities and/or at a reasonable cost, we may be unable to meet the demands of our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our inventory is primarily sourced directly from producers and manufacturing firms, and we depend on the availability of large supplies of the products we sell. Our largest suppliers for the year ended September 30, 2017 were Precision Castparts Corp. and Arconic. During fiscal 2017, 13% of the products we purchased were from Precision Castparts Corp. and 9% were purchased from Arconic. In addition, our ten largest suppliers during fiscal 2017 accounted for 42% of our purchases. These manufacturers and producers may experience capacity constraints that result in their being unable to supply us with products in a timely manner, in adequate quantities and/or at a reasonable cost. Contributing factors to manufacturer capacity constraints include, among other things, industry or customer demands in excess of manufacturing capacity, labor shortages and changes in raw material flows. Any significant interruption in the supply of these products or termination of our relationship with any of our suppliers could result in us being unable to meet the demands of our customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is highly dependent on complex information technology.. The provision and application of IT is an increasingly critical aspect of our business. Among other things, our IT systems must frequently interact with those of our customers, suppliers and logistics providers. Our future success will depend on our continued ability to employ IT systems that meet our customers' demands. The failure or disruption of the hardware or software that supports our IT systems, including redundancy systems, could significantly harm our ability to service our customers and cause economic losses for which we could be held liable and which could damage our reputation. In addition, we are subject to cybersecurity risk, which includes, but is not limited to, malicious software and unauthorized attempts to gain access to sensitive, confidential or otherwise protected information related to us, our customers or suppliers. A cyber-related attack could cause a loss of data and interruptions or delays in our business (particularly with respect to our tcmIS operating system), cause us to incur remediation costs, subject us to claims and damage our reputation. In addition, the failure or disruption of our IT systems, communications or utilities could cause us to interrupt or suspend our operations or otherwise adversely affect our business. Our property and business interruption insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of any system or operational failure or disruption which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, system improvements and other IT-related upgrades could require us to accelerate the depreciation of certain assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Our competitors may have or may develop IT systems that permit them to be more cost effective and otherwise better able to meet customer demands than we are able to with IT systems we are able to acquire or develop. Larger competitors may be able to develop or license IT systems more cost effectively than we can by spreading the cost across a larger revenue base, and competitors with greater financial resources may be able to acquire or develop IT systems that we cannot afford. If we fail to meet the demands of our customers or protect against disruptions of our IT systems, we may lose customers, which could seriously harm our business and adversely affect our operating results and operating cash flow.. 14. We may be unable to retain personnel who are key to our operations.. Our success, among other things, is dependent on our ability to attract, develop and retain highly qualified senior management and other key personnel. Competition for key personnel is intense, and our ability to attract and retain key personnel is dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. The inability to hire, develop and retain these key employees may adversely affect our operations.. There are risks inherent in international operations that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. While the majority of our operations are based in the United States, we have significant international operations, with facilities in Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Mexico, Singapore and the United Kingdom, and customers throughout North America, Latin America, Europe, Asia and the Middle East. For the years ended September 30, 2017 and 2016, 35% and 35%, respectively, of our net sales were derived from customers located outside the United States.. Our international operations are subject to, without limitation, the following risks:. • the burden of complying with multiple and possibly conflicting laws and any unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;. • political risks, including risks of loss due to civil disturbances, acts of terrorism, acts of war, guerilla activities and insurrection;. • unstable economic, financial and market conditions and increased expenses due to inflation, or higher interest rates;. • difficulties in enforcement of third-party contractual obligations and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems;. • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations and the application of foreign labor regulations;. • differing local product preferences and product requirements; and. • potentially adverse tax consequences from changes in tax laws, requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries and restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries.. In addition, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies affect the dollar value of our net investment in foreign subsidiaries, with these fluctuations being included in a separate component of stockholders' equity. At September 30, 2017, we reported a cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment of $82.5 million in stockholders' equity as a result of foreign currency translation adjustments, and we may incur additional adjustments in future periods. In addition, operating results of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars for purposes of our statements of comprehensive income at average monthly exchange rates. Moreover, to the extent that our net sales are not denominated in the same currency as our expenses, our net earnings could be materially adversely affected. For example, a portion of labor, material and overhead costs for our facilities in the United Kingdom, Germany, France and Italy are incurred in British pounds or euros, but in certain cases the related net sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar or other currencies could result in material fluctuations in foreign currency translation amounts or the U.S. dollar value of transactions and, as a result, our net earnings could be materially adversely affected. At times we engage in hedging transactions to manage or reduce our foreign currency exchange risk, but these transactions may not be successful and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. During fiscal 2017 and 2016, fluctuations in foreign currency translation had a negative impact on net sales of $22.9 million and $30.2 million, respectively.. Our international operations require us to comply with numerous applicable anti-corruption and trade control laws and regulations, including those of the U.S. government and various other jurisdictions, and our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. Doing business on a worldwide basis requires us and our subsidiaries to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various other jurisdictions, and our failure to successfully comply with these rules and regulations may. 15. expose us to liabilities. These laws and regulations apply to companies, individual directors, officers, employees and agents, and may restrict our operations, trade practices, investment decisions and partnering activities.. In particular, our international operations are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the FCPA, the Bribery Act and other applicable anti-corruption regimes. These laws generally prohibit us from corruptly providing anything of value, directly or indirectly, to government officials for the purposes of improperly influencing official decisions, improperly obtaining or retaining business, or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. As part of our business, we may deal with governments and state-owned business enterprises, the employees and representatives of which may be considered government officials for purposes of the FCPA, the Bribery Act or other applicable anti-corruption laws. Some anti-corruption laws, such as the Bribery Act, also prohibit commercial bribery and the acceptance of bribes, and the FCPA further requires publicly traded companies to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately reflect the transactions of the company. In addition, some of the international locations in which we operate lack a developed legal system and have elevated levels of corruption, and our industry is highly regulated, which increases our risk of violating anti-corruption laws.. As an exporter, we must comply with various laws and regulations relating to the export of products, services and technology from the United States and other countries having jurisdiction over our operations. In the U.S., these laws include, among others, EAR administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security, ITAR administered by the U.S. Department of State's Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, and trade sanctions, regulations and embargoes administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control. These laws and regulations may require us to obtain individual validated licenses from the relevant agency to export, re-export, or transfer commodities, software, technology, or services to certain jurisdictions, individuals, or entities. We cannot be certain that our applications for export licenses or other authorizations will be granted or approved. Furthermore, the export license and export authorization process is often time-consuming.. Violations of these legal requirements are punishable by criminal fines and imprisonment, civil penalties, disgorgement of profits, injunctions, debarment from government contracts, seizure and forfeiture of unlawful attempted exports, and/or denial of export privileges, as well as other remedial measures. We have established policies and procedures designed to assist us, our personnel and our agents to comply with applicable U.S. and international laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us, our employees and our agents from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, and violations, allegations or investigations of such violations could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our total assets include substantial intangible assets, and the write-off of a significant portion of our intangible assets would negatively affect our financial results.. Our total assets reflect substantial intangible assets. At September 30, 2017, goodwill and intangible assets, net represented 25.4% of our total assets.  Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of acquired businesses over the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed resulting from acquisitions, including the acquisition of our Company by affiliates of The Carlyle Group (Carlyle) and the acquisition of Haas. Intangible assets represent trademarks, backlogs, non-compete agreements, technology and customer relationships. On at least an annual basis, we assess whether there has been impairment in the value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. If our testing identifies impairment under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), the impairment charge we calculate would result in a charge to income from operations. For example, during the three months ended June 30, 2017, we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment of $240.6 million for our North America Hardware reporting unit and $70.5 million for our North America Chemical reporting unit, for a total impairment charge of $311.1 million. Any future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of goodwill and unamortized identified intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations and total capitalization, which could be material. For additional information, see \"Part II, Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates-Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets.\". Changes in U.S. tax law may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.. The current administration and members of the U.S. Congress are currently pursuing reform of the U.S. tax system, which would include reduced U.S. corporate tax rates, changes to the taxation of international earnings for U.S. multinational corporations and the elimination, in whole or in part, of the deduction for net interest expense.  While we are unable to predict which, if any, of these proposed tax reforms will be enacted into law, and what effects any enacted legislation will have on our liability for U.S. corporate tax, we believe these potential changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.  However, we do believe that a reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate would result. 16. in a write down of a portion of our net U.S. deferred tax assets, the impact of which could be material. In addition, given our current level of interest expense payments, we believe that a limitation on the deductibility of net interest expense could result in a material increase in our U.S. corporate tax liabilities and effective tax rate.. If any of our customers were to become insolvent or experience substantial financial difficulties, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. If any of the customers with whom we do business becomes insolvent or experiences substantial financial difficulties we may be unable to timely collect amounts owed to us by such customers and may not be able to sell the inventory we have purchased for such customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We or our suppliers or customers may experience damage to or disruptions at our or their facilities caused by natural disasters and other factors, which may result in our business, financial condition and results of operations being adversely affected.. Several of our facilities or those of our suppliers and customers could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by earthquakes, tornadoes, floods, hurricanes, fire, power loss, telecommunication and information systems failure or other similar events. Should insurance be insufficient to recover all such losses or should we be unable to reestablish our operations, or if our customers or suppliers were to experience material disruptions in their operations as a result of such events, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We are dependent on access to and the performance of third-party package delivery companies.. Our ability to provide efficient distribution of the products we sell to our customers is an integral component of our overall business strategy. We do not maintain our own delivery networks, and instead rely on third-party package delivery companies. We cannot assure you that we will always be able to ensure access to preferred delivery companies or that these companies will continue to meet our needs or provide reasonable pricing terms. In addition, if the package delivery companies on which we rely experience delays resulting from inclement weather or other disruptions, we may be unable to maintain products in inventory and deliver products to our customers on a timely basis, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A significant labor dispute involving us or one or more of our customers or suppliers, or a labor dispute that otherwise affects our operations, could reduce our net sales and harm our profitability.. Labor disputes involving us or one or more of our customers or suppliers could affect our operations. If our customers or suppliers are unable to negotiate new labor agreements and our customers' or suppliers' plants experience slowdowns or closures as a result, our net sales and profitability could be negatively impacted.. While our employees are not currently unionized, they may attempt to form unions in the future, and the employees of our customers, suppliers and other service providers may be, or may in the future be, unionized. We cannot assure you that there will not be any strike, lock out or material labor dispute with respect to our business or those of our customers or suppliers in the future that materially affects our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be materially adversely affected by high fuel prices.. Fluctuations in the global supply of crude oil and the possibility of changes in government policies on the production, transportation and marketing of jet fuel make it impossible to predict the future availability and price of jet fuel. In the event there is an outbreak or escalation of hostilities or other conflicts or significant disruptions in oil production or delivery in oil-producing areas or elsewhere, there could be reductions in the production or importation of crude oil and significant increases in the cost of jet fuel. If there were major reductions in the availability of jet fuel or significant increases in its cost, commercial airlines would face increased operating costs. Due to the competitive nature of the airline industry, airlines are often unable to pass on increases in fuel prices to customers by increasing fares. As a result, an increase in jet fuel could result in a decrease in net income from either lower margins or, if airlines increase ticket fares, lower net sales from reduced airline travel. Decreases in airline profitability could decrease the demand for new commercial aircraft, resulting in delays of or reductions in deliveries of commercial aircraft that utilize the products we sell, and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. 17. Our financial results may fluctuate from period-to-period, making quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our business, financial condition and results of operations less reliable indicators of our future performance.. There are many factors, such as the cyclical nature of the aerospace industry, fluctuations in our ad hoc sales, delays in major aircraft programs, planned production shutdowns, downward pressure on sales prices and changes in the volume of our customers' orders that could cause our financial results to fluctuate from period-to-period. For example, during the year ended September 30, 2017, 24% of our net sales were derived from ad hoc sales. The prices we charge for ad hoc sales are typically higher than the prices under our Contract sales. However, customers may not continue to purchase the same amount of products from us on an ad hoc basic as they have in the past, so it cannot be assured that in any given year we will be able to generate similar levels of ad hoc net sales as we did in the past. We are also actively working to transition customers from ad hoc purchases to Contracts, which may also result in a reduction in our ad hoc net sales. In addition, our acquisition of Haas has contributed to lower our ad hoc sales as a percentage of total net sales. A significant diminution in our ad hoc sales in any given period could result in fluctuations in our financial results and operating margins. As a result of these factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance.. We will continue to incur significant costs as a result of operating as a publicly traded company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to public company compliance requirements and investor needs.. As a publicly traded company, we will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act) and the rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange have imposed various requirements on public companies. Our management and other personnel will continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will continue to result in increased legal and financial compliance costs compared to a private company and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we believe these rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to maintain appropriate levels of director and officer liability insurance.. We are subject to health, safety and environmental laws and regulations, any violation of which could subject us to significant liabilities and penalties.. We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, protection of the environment and human health and safety, and the handling, transportation, storage, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances, including potentially with respect to historical chemical blending and other activities that pre-dated the purchase of the Haas business by us. Actual or alleged violations of EHS laws, or permit requirements could result in restrictions or prohibitions on operations and substantial civil or criminal sanctions, as well as, under some EHS laws, the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability.. Furthermore, we may be liable for the costs of investigating and cleaning up environmental contamination on or from our operations or at off-site locations, including potentially with respect to historical chemical blending and other activities that pre-dated the purchase of the Haas business by us. We may therefore incur additional costs and expenditures beyond those currently anticipated to address all such known and unknown situations under existing and future EHS laws.. Governmental, regulatory and societal demands for increasing levels of product safety and environmental protection are resulting in increased pressure for more stringent regulatory control with respect to the chemical industry. The European Union's REACH regulations enacted in 2009 have been a continuing source of compliance obligations and restrictions on certain chemicals, and REACH-like regimes have now been adopted in several other countries. In the United States, the core provisions of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) were amended in June 2016 for the first time in nearly 40 years. Among the more significant changes are that these amendments mandate safety reviews of existing chemicals with regulatory action to restrict any \"high risk\" chemicals identified as result of such reviews. The amendments to the TSCA also mandate that the EPA reset the current TSCA Inventory to identify commercially \"active\" chemicals, a process expected to result in potentially significant compliance obligations for the Company and our customers and suppliers who manufacture, process and import chemicals. These types of changes in the Company's regulatory environment, particularly, but not limited to, in the United States, the European Union, Canada and China, could lead to heightened regulatory scrutiny and could adversely impact our ability to supply certain products and provide supply chain management services to our customers. Such changes also could result in compliance obligations for us directly or as part of our supply chain management services to customers, fines, ongoing monitoring and other future business activity restrictions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 18. In addition, these concerns could influence public perceptions regarding our operations and our ability to attract and retain customers and employees. Moreover, changes in EHS regulations could inhibit or interrupt our operations, or require us to modify our facilities or operations. Accordingly, environmental or regulatory matters may cause us to incur significant unanticipated losses, costs, capital expenditures or liabilities, which could reduce our profitability. Such losses, costs, capital expenditures or liabilities will be subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the timing of the promulgation and enforcement of specific standards which impose requirements on our operations. As a result, these losses, costs, capital expenditures or liabilities may be more than currently anticipated.. Our operations involve risks associated with the handling, transportation, storage and disposal of chemical products that may increase our operating costs and reduce our profitability.. Our business is subject to hazards inherent in the handling, transportation, storage and disposal of chemical products. These hazards include: chemical spills, storage tank leaks, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases and other hazards incident to the handling, transportation, storage and disposal of dangerous chemicals. We are also potentially subject to other hazards, including natural disasters and severe weather; explosions and fires; transportation problems, including interruptions, spills and leaks; mechanical failures; unscheduled downtimes; labor difficulties; and other risks. Many potential hazards can cause bodily injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and may result in suspension of our own or our customers' operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties and liabilities. Furthermore, we are subject to present and future claims with respect to our employees when working within our own operations or when supplying chemicals to and/or providing chemical management services at our customer's operations, other persons, including potentially our customers and their employees, workers' compensation and other matters.. We maintain property, business interruption, products liability and casualty insurance policies which we believe are in accordance with customary industry practices, as well as insurance policies covering other types of risks, including pollution legal liability insurance, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. Each of these insurance policies is subject to customary exclusions, deductibles and coverage limits, in accordance with industry standards and practices. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. If the temperature control systems on which we rely fail, certain of the chemical products we sell may become \"non-conforming\" while in storage or in transit, and as a result, we may be responsible for providing replacement products to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Many of the chemical products we sell are sensitive to temperature. Our storage facilities and the vehicles maintained by the third-party delivery companies on whom we rely utilize sophisticated temperature control systems to ensure safe storage and handling of these products. If these temperature control systems fail, products that are sensitive to temperature may become. non-conforming to the customer's specifications, and we may be responsible for providing replacement products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our reputation and/or our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if one of the products we sell causes an aircraft to crash.. We may be exposed to liabilities for personal injury, death or property damage due to the failure of a product we have sold. We typically agree to indemnify our customers against certain liabilities resulting from the products we sell, and any third-party indemnification we seek from our suppliers and our liability insurance may not fully cover our indemnification obligations to customers. We also may not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. Any liability for which third-party indemnification is not available that is not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, a crash caused by one of the products we have sold could damage our reputation for selling quality products. We believe our customers consider safety and reliability as key criteria in selecting a provider of aircraft products and believe our reputation for quality assurance is a significant competitive strength. If a crash were to be caused by one of the products we sold, or if we were to otherwise fail to maintain a satisfactory record of safety and reliability, our ability to retain and attract customers may be materially adversely affected.. 19. We sell products to a highly regulated industry and our business may be adversely affected if our suppliers or customers lose government approvals, if more stringent government regulations are enacted or if industry oversight is increased.. The aerospace industry is highly regulated in the United States and in other countries. The FAA prescribes standards and other requirements for aircraft components in the U.S. and comparable agencies, such as the European Aviation Safety Agency, the Civil Aviation Administration of China and the Japanese Civil Aviation Bureau, regulate these matters in other countries. Our suppliers and customers must generally be certified by the FAA, the DoD and similar agencies in foreign countries. If any of our suppliers' government certifications are revoked, we would be less likely to buy such supplier's products, and, as a result, would need to locate a suitable alternate supply of such products, which we may be unable to accomplish on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If any of our customers' government certifications are revoked, their demand for the products we sell would decline. In each case, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. In addition, if new and more stringent government regulations are adopted or if industry oversight increases, our suppliers and customers may incur significant expenses to comply with such new regulations or heightened industry oversight. In the case of our suppliers, these expenses may be passed on to us in the form of price increases, which we may be unable to pass along to our customers. In the case of our customers, these expenses may limit their ability to purchase products from us. In each case, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. We may be unable to successfully consummate or integrate future acquisitions, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may consider future acquisitions, some of which could be material to us. Depending upon the acquisition opportunities available, we may need to raise additional funds through the capital markets or arrange for additional debt financing to consummate such acquisitions. We may be unable to raise the capital required for future acquisitions on satisfactory terms or at all, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Economics related to acquisitions including valuation, purchase price, synergies and competitive advantage may rely on our ability to efficiently integrate an acquired business with our existing enterprise, which we may not be able to execute successfully.. The results of the United Kingdom's referendum on withdrawal from the European Union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business, which could reduce the price of our common stock.. We have material business operations in both the United Kingdom and the broader European Union. In June 2016, a majority of voters in the United Kingdom elected to withdraw from the European Union in a national referendum. The terms of the withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last until or beyond March 2019, two years after the government of the United Kingdom formally initiated the withdrawal process in March 2017. This has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union, and has given rise to calls for the governments of other European Union member states to consider withdrawal.. These developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and could significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. Asset valuations, currency exchange rates and credit ratings may be especially subject to increased market volatility. Lack of clarity about future United Kingdom laws and regulations as the United Kingdom determines which European Union laws to replace or replicate in the event of a withdrawal, including financial laws and regulations, tax and free trade agreements, intellectual property rights, supply chain logistics, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, immigration laws and employment laws, could decrease foreign direct investment in the United Kingdom, increase costs, depress economic activity and restrict our access to capital. If the United Kingdom and the European Union are unable to negotiate acceptable withdrawal terms or if other European Union member states pursue withdrawal, barrier-free access between the United Kingdom and other European Union member states or among the European economic area overall could be diminished or eliminated. Any of these factors could have a direct or indirect impact on our business in the United Kingdom and the broader European Union, on our suppliers and customers in the United Kingdom and the broader European Union and on our business outside the United Kingdom and the broader European Union, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and reduce the price of our common stock.. 20. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and could harm our ability to react to changes to our business.. As of September 30, 2017, our total indebtedness outstanding under our Existing Credit Facilities (as defined in Part II, Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Credit Facilities - Existing Senior Secured Credit Facilities\") was $875.6 million, which was 57.4% of our total capitalization.. In addition, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Our Credit Facilities contain certain significant qualifications and exceptions that allow us to incur additional indebtedness, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these qualifications and exceptions could be substantial. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage would increase.. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. For example, it could:. • increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and industry conditions;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; and. • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the documents governing our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, make investments and incur liens.. In addition, all of our debt under the Credit Facilities bears, and under the Existing Credit Facilities bore, interest at floating rates, causing us to enter into interest rate swap derivative instruments to partially offset our exposure to interest rate fluctuations, which result in additional risks. As of September 30, 2017, we had a current interest rate hedge liability and a long-term interest rate hedge liability of $2.5 million and $0.9 million, respectively. If our interest rate hedge was determined ineffective partially or entirely as defined by GAAP, the ineffective portion or the entire amount of our interest rate hedge liabilities would adversely affect our earnings. Our derivatives also expose us to credit risk to the extent that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of the agreement, which could negate the intended protection from our hedge instruments. See further discussion on our derivative financial instruments in Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Our level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the Credit Facilities or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness. If we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital and cannot assure you that we will be successful in implementing any such actions or that any actions we take will allow us to stay in compliance with the terms of our indebtedness.. The terms of the Credit Facilities and other debt instruments may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions.. The Credit Facilities contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. The Credit Facilities include covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to:. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock;. • pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock;. • make investments;. 21. • sell assets;. • enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us;. • incur or allow liens;. • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets;. • engage in transactions with affiliates;. • enter into sale leaseback transactions;. • change fiscal periods;. • enter into agreements that restrict the granting of liens or the making of subsidiary distributions;. • create unrestricted subsidiaries; and. • engage in certain business activities.. In addition, the Credit Facilities contain a maximum leverage ratio covenant. A breach of this financial covenant could result in a default under the Credit Facilities. If any such default occurs, the lenders under the Credit Facilities may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. The lenders under the Credit Facilities also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments to provide further borrowings. In addition, following an event of default under the Credit Facilities, the lenders under those facilities will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt, which includes our available cash. If the debt under the Credit Facilities was to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full our debt. See Part II, Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Credit Facilities - Sixth Amendment to Senior Secured Credit Facilities\" for additional information about the Company's compliance with the Consolidated Total Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) maintenance covenant contained in the Credit Agreement.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your common stock at or above the price you paid for your common stock. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, including:. • our operating and financial performance and prospects;. • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;. • the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC;. • changes in, or failure to meet, earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stock of other companies in our industry;. • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in analyst recommendations;. • credit ratings downgrades or other negative actions by ratings agencies for us or our subsidiaries;. • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;. • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. 22. • the impact on our profitability temporarily caused by the time lag between when we experience cost increases until these increases flow through cost of sales because of our method of accounting for inventory, or the impact from our inability to pass on such price increases to our customers;. • material litigation or government investigations;. • changes in general conditions in the United States and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events;. • changes in key personnel;. • sales of common stock by us or members of our management team;. • the volume of trading in our common stock; and. • the realization of any risks described under \"Risk Factors.\". In addition, in recent years, the U.S. stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has significantly impacted the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our Company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our share price and cause you to lose all or part of your investment.. We have no plans to pay regular dividends on our common stock, so you may not receive funds without selling your common stock.. We have no plans to pay regular dividends on our common stock. We generally intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that our Board of Directors deems relevant. The Credit Facilities also effectively limit our ability to pay dividends. Accordingly, you may have to sell some or all of your common stock in order to generate cash flow from your investment. You may not record a gain on your investment when you sell your common stock and you may lose the entire amount of the investment.. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our Company or changes in our management and, as a result, depress the trading price of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our Company may deem advantageous. These provisions:. • establish a classified Board of Directors, with three classes of directors;. • authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that our Board of Directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt;. • limit the ability of stockholders to remove directors;. • prohibit our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders;. • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders;. • provide that our Board of Directors is expressly authorized to amend, or to alter or repeal our bylaws; and. • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. 23. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our Company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing, which could result in us taking corporate actions other than those you desire.. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our share price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities may dilute your ownership in our Company and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We and our existing stockholders may sell additional shares of common stock in subsequent public offerings. We may also issue additional shares of common stock or convertible debt securities to finance future acquisitions. As of September 30, 2017, we had 950,000,000 shares of common stock authorized and 99,450,902 shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, we have 2,001,044 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of options outstanding as of September 30, 2017 and 3,457,947 available shares of common stock reserved for issuance under the Wesco Aircraft Holdings, Inc. 2014 Incentive Award Plan (the 2014 Plan).. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including sales pursuant to Carlyle's registration rights and shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock."
