[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information contained and incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K.  The risks described below are not the only risks facing us.  Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or those risks we currently view to be immaterial, may also materially and adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition.  If any of these risks materialize, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Business. We have incurred losses in the past and may incur losses in the future.. We have incurred losses in recent fiscal years and historically in fiscal years through 2002.  The Company had an accumulated deficit of $329.6 million as of March 31, 2018.. We expect to continue to evaluate new product and growth opportunities.  As a result, we will continue to invest in research and development and sales and marketing, which could adversely affect our short-term operating results.  Although we have made signification progress reducing costs in fiscal years 2018 and 2017, we cannot provide any certainty that we will be profitable in the future.. We depend on a limited number of customers who are able to exert a high degree of influence over us and loss of or the reduction of spending by a major customer could adversely impact our business.. We have and may continue to depend on U.S. telecommunication service providers for the majority of our revenues.  The telecommunications companies and our other customers are significantly larger than we are and are able to exert a high degree of influence over us.  Customers may often be permitted to reschedule orders without penalty.  Even if demand for our products is high, many telecommunication service providers have sufficient bargaining power to demand low prices and other terms and conditions that may materially adversely affect our business and operating results.. Our performance is dependent on customer capital spending, which can be volatile and difficult to forecast.  Customer capital spending can be affected by end user demand driven by competing technology, economic conditions, customer budget restraints, work stoppages or other labor issues at the facilities of our customers and other factors.  Our customers have curtailed or deferred spending in the past without notice.. Overall sales and product mix sold to our large customers have fluctuated in the past and could vary in the future resulting in significant fluctuations in quarterly operating results and may also adversely impact our stock price.. We have in the past and may in the future experience significant delays or other complications in the design, manufacture, launch, and production ramp of new products, which could harm our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results.. Many of our past sales have resulted from our ability to anticipate changes in technology, industry standards and service provider service offerings, and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products and services.  Our continued ability to adapt to such changes will be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and our prospects for growth.  Additionally, other companies may succeed in developing and marketing products that are more effective and/or less costly than any product we may develop, or that are commercially accepted before any of our products.. There can be no assurance that we will successfully introduce new products on a timely basis or achieve sales of new products in the future, particularly as customer demand shifts to new technology or the next generation of products.  Additionally, we rely on third parties to perform a portion of our research and development activities.  Accordingly, the failure of third party research partners to perform under agreements entered into with us, or our failure to renew important agreements with these third party research parties, may delay or curtail our research and development efforts.  In addition, there can be no assurance that we will have the financial and product design resources necessary to continue to successfully develop new products or to otherwise successfully respond to changing technology standards and service provider service offerings.  If we fail to deploy new products on a timely basis, our product sales may decrease and our competitive position, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. We may experience significant delays or other complications in bringing to market and ramping production of new products, such as our new product safety products.  Currently, there are competitive products in the public safety market that have already launched.. The decision to curtail the development of new products or other complications in the development, manufacture, launch, and production ramp of any future product, have in the past and could in the future materially damage our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results.. -. 6. -. Table of Contents. We have completed acquisitions in the past and may engage in future acquisitions that could impact our financial results or stock price.. We have completed acquisitions and expect to continue to review potential acquisitions, and we may acquire or make investments in businesses, products or technologies in the future.  Any existing or substantial future acquisitions or investments would present a number of risks that could harm our business including:. • business integration issues;. • disruption to our ongoing or acquired business;. • difficulty realizing the intended benefits of the transaction;. • impairment of assets related to acquired goodwill and intangibles; and. • key employee retention.. Future acquisitions or investments could also result in use of significant cash balances, potential dilutive issuances of equity securities or incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We have long-term customer pricing contracts but few long-term contracts or arrangements with our suppliers, which could adversely affect our ability, with certainty or economically, to purchase components and technologies used in our products.. Although we have long-term customer pricing contracts, we have few long-term contracts or arrangements with our suppliers. We may not be able to obtain products or components at competitive prices, in sufficient quantities or under other commercially reasonable terms.  Because of our long-term customer pricing contracts, we may be unable to pass any significant increase in product costs on to our customers, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our lack of backlog and market visibility may affect our ability to adjust for unexpected changes in customer demand.. Customers often place orders for product within the month of their requested delivery date.  We therefore typically do not have a material backlog (or known quantity) of unfilled orders, and our revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked or orders becoming non-cancellable in that quarter.  Our expense levels and inventory commitments are based on anticipated customer demand and are relatively fixed in the short term.  If we enter into a high-volume or long-term supply arrangement and subsequently decide that we cannot use the products or services provided for in the supply arrangement then our business could also be harmed.  We enter into short-term contracts with our suppliers in the form of purchase orders.  These purchase orders are issued to vendors based on forecasted customer demand.  Therefore, we may be unable to cancel purchase orders with our suppliers or adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall of orders. Accordingly, any significant shortfall of demand in relation to our expectations or any material delay of customer orders could have an adverse impact on our business, our financial condition and results of operations.. We face significant inventory risk.. We are exposed to significant inventory risks that may adversely affect our operating results as a result of seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes in product cycles and pricing, defective products, changes in customer demand and spending patterns, and other factors.  We endeavor to accurately predict these trends and avoid over-stocking or under-stocking products we assemble and/or sell.  Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory or components are ordered/assembled and the date of customer orders.  In addition, when we begin marketing a new product, it may be difficult to determine appropriate product or component selection, and accurately forecast demand.  The acquisition of certain types of inventory or components may require significant lead-time and they may not be returnable.  We carry a broad selection and significant inventory levels of certain products, and we may be unable to sell products in sufficient quantities.  Any one of the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect our operating results.. Conversely, if we order too little product to meet customer demand, we may have insufficient inventory which could result in unplanned expediting costs or lost revenue opportunities, either of which could have an adverse impact on our financial results.. Our customers have lengthy purchase cycles and unpredictable purchasing practices that affect our ability to sell our products.. Prior to selling products to service providers, we must undergo the lengthy approval and purchase processes of our customers.  Evaluation can take as little as a few months for products that vary slightly from existing products or up to a year or more for products based on new technologies or utilized for new service offerings.  Customers may also choose not to utilize our offerings.  Accordingly, we are continually submitting successive generations of our current products as well as new products to our customers for approval.. The requirement that service providers obtain FCC or state regulatory approval for most new telecommunications and broadband services prior to their implementation has in the past delayed the approval process.  Such delays in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.  While we have been successful in the past in obtaining. -. 7. -. Table of Contents. product approvals from our customers, there is no guarantee that such approvals, or that ensuing sales of such products will continue to occur.. Our business is subject to the risks of international operations.. We are dependent on our independent offshore manufacturing partners in Asia to manufacture, assemble and test our products.  Although there typically is no unique capability with these suppliers, any failure or business disruption by these suppliers to meet delivery commitments would cause us to delay shipments and potentially lose revenue and/or incur contractual penalties.  Our reliance on third-party subcontractors for assembly of our products involves several risks, including the unavailability of, or interruptions in access to, certain process technologies and reduced control over product quality, delivery schedules, transportation, manufacturing yields, and costs.  These risks may be exacerbated by economic or political uncertainties, terrorist actions, or by natural pandemics or other disasters in countries in which our subcontractors or their subcontractors are located.  Contracts with our CMs are generally expressed in U.S. dollars, but volatility in foreign currency rates could increase our costs.. We aim to derive an increased portion of our revenue from international operations.  As a result, our financial condition and operating results could be significantly affected by risks associated with international activities, such as economic, political, and other risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, regional or country specific economic downturns, changes to tax laws, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, complications in complying with, or exposure to liability under, a variety of laws and regulations, including anti-corruption laws and regulations, political instability, significant natural disasters and other events or factors impacting local infrastructure.  Requirements for international expansion may increase our operating expenses or working capital needs.. Due to the rapid pace of technological change and volatile customer demand, our products may become obsolete and could cause us to incur charges for excess and obsolete inventory which would materially harm our business.. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid technological change and volatile customer demands, which affected our past results and could result in inventory obsolescence or excess inventory.  We have in the past and may in the future devote disproportionate resources to a product that we ultimately may not sell or have to sell for a loss.  If we incur substantial inventory impairments that we are not able to recover because of changing market conditions, or if we commit resources that do not result in profitable sales, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our products and services face intense competition.  Our failure to compete successfully could materially affect our profitability.. Because we are smaller than many of our competitors, we may lack the financial, marketing, technical and other resources needed to increase or maintain our market share.  Many of our competitors are larger than we are and may be able to offer a wider array of products and services required for a service provider's business than we do.. Competitors may succeed in establishing more technologically advanced products and services, or products with more favorable pricing or may otherwise gain an advantage over our products which would result in lost business that would adversely impact our profitability.. Because of intense competition, we may price our products and services at low margins in order to win or maintain business. Low margins from our sales of products and services could materially and adversely affect our profitability and ability to achieve our business goals.. We are dependent on third-party technology, the loss of which would harm our business.. We rely on third parties for technology in our products.  Consequently, we must rely upon third parties to develop and to introduce technologies which enhance the Company's current products and enable the Company, in turn, to develop its own products on a timely and cost-effective basis to meet changing customer needs and technological trends in the telecommunications industry.  Were the Company to lose the ability to obtain needed technology from a supplier, or were that technology no longer available to the Company under reasonable terms and conditions, the Company's business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Potential product recalls, service failures and warranty expenses could adversely affect our profitability.. Our products are required to meet rigorous standards imposed by our customers, and we warrant the performance of these products and services.  In addition, our supply contracts with our major customers typically require us to accept returns of products within certain time frames and indemnify such customers against certain liabilities arising out of the use of our products or services.  Complex products such as those offered by us may contain undetected defects or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released.  Despite our testing of products and our comprehensive quality control program, there is no guarantee that our products will not suffer from defects or other deficiencies.  If product defects, recalls, warranty returns, failures, or indemnification or liquidated-damage claims exceed our anticipated costs for these items, our business. -. 8. -. Table of Contents. could be harmed.  Such claims and the associated negative publicity could result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products and services, and could affect our product sales, our customer relationships, and our profitability.. We are dependent on sole or limited source suppliers and independent contract manufacturers and the loss of or disruptions of these products and services would harm our business.. Components used in our products may be currently available from only one source or a limited number of suppliers. Our inabilities to obtain sufficient key components or to develop alternative sources for key components as required, could result in delays or reductions in product deliveries, and consequently severely harm our customer relationships and our business. Furthermore, additional sole-source components may be incorporated into our future products, thereby increasing our supplier risks.  If any of our sole-source suppliers delay or halt production of any of their components, or fail to supply their components on commercially reasonable terms, then our business and operating results would be harmed.. In the event that these suppliers discontinue the manufacture of materials used in our products, we would be forced to incur the time and expense of finding a new supplier, if available, or to modify our products in such a way that such materials were not necessary, which could result in increased manufacturing costs.. We are dependent on independent contract manufacturers.  During fiscal year 2017, the Company increased reliance on a single contract manufacturer to fully outsource final assembly and test operations for its IBW products.. Any disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, delays in manufacturing processes and ramping up volume for new products, transitions to new service providers or any other circumstances that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands.  In addition, unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of these contract manufacturers and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us.  These factors could result in reduced revenues and could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions concerning the supply of \"conflict\" minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (DRC).  As a result, the SEC established annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who may use conflict minerals sourced from the DRC in their products.  There are costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including diligence costs to determine the sources of conflict minerals used in our products.  These requirements also could limit the pool of suppliers who can provide conflict-free minerals and, as a result, we cannot ensure that we will be able to obtain products with these minerals at competitive prices.  In addition, we may face challenges with our customers or with our reputation if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of the minerals used in our products.. We may be subject to litigation that could be costly to defend and could impact our profitability.. Our products use third party and open source intellectual property.  The telecommunications industry is characterized by the existence of an increasing number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement.  From time to time we receive communications from third parties alleging infringement of exclusive patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us.  Such litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and thus adversely impact our profitability.  We could face securities litigation or other litigation that could result in the payment of substantial damages or settlement costs in excess of our insurance coverage.  Any adverse outcome could harm our business.  Even if we were to prevail in any such litigation, we could incur substantial legal costs and management's attention and resources could be diverted from our business which could cause our business to suffer.. Our indemnification obligations for infringement by our products of the rights of other could require us to pay substantial damages.. As is common in our industry, we have a number of agreements in which we have agreed to defend, indemnify and hold harmless our customers and suppliers from damages and costs that arise from the infringement by our products of third-party patents, trademarks or other proprietary rights.  The scope of these indemnities varies, the duration of these indemnities is generally perpetual after execution of an agreement, and the maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnities is often unlimited.  Any indemnification claims by customers could require us to incur significant legal fees and could potentially result in our payment of substantial damages, and our insurance generally would not cover these fees or damages.  As a result, the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business and result of operations.. -. 9. -. Table of Contents. We will not be able to successfully compete, develop and sell products and services if we fail to retain key personnel and hire additional key personnel.. Because of our need to continually compete for customer business, our success is dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, marketing, sales and management personnel.  To remain competitive, we must maintain top management talent, employees who are involved in product development and testing and employees who have developed strong customer relationships.  Because of the high demand for these types of employees, it may be difficult to retain existing key employees and attract new key employees.  In addition, we do not have non-compete contracts with most of our employees.  Our inability to attract and retain key employees could harm our ability to successfully sell existing products, develop new products, and implement our business goals.. Industry consolidation and divestiture could make competing more difficult.. Consolidation of companies offering competing products is occurring through acquisitions, joint ventures and licensing arrangements involving our competitors, our customers and our customers' competitors.. Our customers may acquire, merge or divest territories to other telecommunication service providers.  The acquiring companies often use competitor products in their legacy business.  We are often required to formally bid to retain existing business or obtain new business in the acquirer's territory.. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to compete successfully in an increasingly consolidated telecommunications industry or retain or win business when existing customers divest portions of their business to others. Any heightened competitive pressures that we may face may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Utilization of our deferred tax assets could be limited by an ownership change as defined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, or by a change in the tax code, or by our ability to generate future taxable income.. We have significant deferred tax assets, primarily in the form of net operating losses, which are generally available to offset future taxable income.  If we fail to generate sufficient future taxable income, net operating losses would expire prior to utilization.  A valuation allowance was recorded against all deferred tax assets in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013.  The Company remains in a full valuation allowance position as of March 31, 2018.  A change in ownership, as defined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, could reduce the availability of those tax assets.  Additional federal or state tax code changes could further limit our use of deferred tax assets and harm our business and our investors.. We have and may incur liabilities in connection with the sale of certain assets and discontinued operations.. In connection with our divestitures, we have agreed to indemnify parties against specified losses with respect to those transactions and retained responsibility for various legal liabilities that may accrue.  The indemnities relate to, among other things, liabilities which may arise with respect to the period during which we operated the divested business, and to certain ongoing contractual relationships and entitlements with respect to which we made commitments in connection with the divestiture.  We have incurred and may incur additional expenses defending indemnity and third party claims.  These added expenses to resolve the claim or to defend against the third party action could harm our operating results.  In addition, such claims may divert management attention from our continuing business.  It may also be difficult to determine whether a claim from a third party stemmed from actions taken by us or by another party and we may expend substantial resources trying to determine which party has responsibility for the claim.. Any restructuring activities that we have undertaken and may undertake in the future may not achieve the benefits anticipated and could result in additional unanticipated costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.. In order to align our resources with our growth strategies, operate more efficiently and control costs, recently and in the past we have periodically announced restructuring plans, which include workforce reductions, facility closures and consolidations, asset impairments and other cost reduction initiatives.  We regularly evaluate our existing operations and, as a result of such evaluations, may undertake additional restructuring activities within our business.  These restructuring activities may involve higher costs or longer timetables than we anticipate, including costs related to severance and other employee-related matters, litigation risks and expenses, and other costs.  These restructuring activities may disrupt sales or operations and may not result in improvements in future financial performance.  If we incur unanticipated costs or are unable to realize the benefits related to restructuring activities, the activities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.. An impairment of long-lived assets could adversely impact our reported financial results.. Events or circumstances could arise that may create a need to record an impairment adjustment related to our long-lived assets that could adversely impact our reported financial results.. -. 10. -. Table of Contents. Our business may be affected by uncertain government regulation, and current or future laws or regulations could restrict the way we operate our business or impose additional costs on our business.. The telecommunications industry, including most of our customers, is subject to regulation from federal and state agencies, including the FCC and various state public utility and service commissions.  While most of these regulations do not affect us directly, the effects of regulations on our customers may adversely impact our business and operating results.  For example, FCC regulatory policies affecting the availability of telecommunication company services and other terms on which telecommunication companies conduct their business may impede our penetration of local access markets, and/or make the markets less financially attractive.. Our inability to successfully maintain business continuity could impair our ability to deliver our products and services and harm our business.. We are heavily reliant on our technology and infrastructure to provide our products and services to our customers.  A disruption or failure of these systems or operations because of relocation, the failure to successfully upgrade our systems, a disaster, or other business continuity event could cause data corruption, missing data or data lost or otherwise delay our ability to complete sales and provide the highest level of service to our customers.  In addition, we could have difficulty producing accurate financial statements on a timely basis, which could adversely affect the trading value of our stock.  Although we endeavor to ensure there is redundancy in these systems and that they are regularly backed-up, there are no assurances that data recovery in the event of a disaster or other event would be effective or occur in an efficient manner.  Any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our products and services could harm our reputation and may damage our customers' businesses.. Our failure or the failure of third-party service providers to protect our sites, networks and systems against security breaches, or otherwise to protect our confidential information, could adversely affect our business and financial results.. Our business systems collect, maintain, transmit and store data about our customers, vendors and others, including credit card information and personally identifiable information, as well as other confidential and proprietary information. We also employ third-party service providers that store, process and transmit proprietary, personal and confidential information on our behalf. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties in an effort to securely transmit confidential and sensitive information, including credit card numbers. Our security measures, and those of our third-party service providers, may not detect or prevent all attempts to hack our systems, denial-of-service attacks, viruses, malicious software, break-ins, phishing attacks, social engineering, security breaches or other attacks and similar disruptions that may jeopardize the security of information stored in or transmitted by our sites, networks and systems or that we or our third-party service providers otherwise maintain.. We and our service providers may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent all types of attacks, and techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and may not be known until launched against us or our third-party service providers. In addition, security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including intentional or inadvertent breaches by our employees or by persons with whom we have commercial relationships. Although we maintain privacy, data breach and network security liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate or cover liabilities actually incurred, or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all.  Any compromise or breach of our security measures, or those of our third-party service providers, could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, violate applicable privacy, data security and other laws, and cause significant legal and financial exposure, adverse publicity, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, which could affect its market price and liquidity.. Our Class A Common Stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol \"WSTL.\" In the event that we fail to maintain compliance with the applicable listing requirements, our Class A Common Stock could become subject to delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market.. On July 1, 2016, we were notified by the Listing Qualifications Staff that our Class A Common Stock was not in compliance with the minimum bid price requirement set forth in Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2) (the \"Bid Price Requirement\") because the bid price for our Class A Common Stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for 30 consecutive business days. We regained compliance with the Bid Price Requirement as a result of a one-for-four reverse stock split we effected on June 7, 2017.. -. 11. -. Table of Contents. Though the bid price of our Class A Common Stock has remained above $1.00 per share since the reverse stock split, we cannot guarantee that it will remain at or above $1.00 per share. If the bid price drops below $1.00 per share, our Class A Common Stock could become subject to delisting again, and we may need to seek stockholder approval for an additional reverse stock split. A second reverse stock split could produce negative effects and we cannot provide any assurance that it would result in a long-term or permanent increase in the bid price of our Class A Common Stock. For example, a second reverse stock split could make it more difficult for us to comply with other listing standards of Nasdaq, including requirements related to the minimum number of shares that must be in the public float, the minimum market value of publicly held shares and the minimum number of round lot holders. Although we are currently in compliance with all of the listing standards for listing on Nasdaq, we cannot provide any assurance that we will continue to be in compliance in the future.. The recent reverse stock split of our shares of Class A Common Stock may decrease the market trading liquidity of the shares due to the reduced number of shares outstanding.. In June 2017, we effected a one-for-four reverse stock split of our shares of Class A Common Stock in order to increase the bid price to more than $1.00 per share and thus maintain the listing for our Class A Common Stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market. The liquidity of the shares may be adversely affected by the reverse stock split as a result of the reduced number of shares outstanding following the reverse stock split. In addition, the reverse stock split may have increased the number of stockholders who own odd lots (less than 100 shares) of our Class A Common Stock, creating the potential for such stockholders to experience an increase in the cost of selling their shares and greater difficulty effecting such sales.. Our stock price is volatile and could drop unexpectedly.. Our stock price has demonstrated and may continue to demonstrate volatility as valuations, trading volumes and prices vary significantly.  Such volatility may result in a material decline in the market price of our securities, and may have little relationship to our financial results or prospects.. We could be the subject of future investigation by the SEC or other governmental authorities that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock.. In the event that an investigation by the SEC or other governmental authorities leads to significant legal expense or to action against the Company or its directors and officers, our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock may be adversely impacted.. Our principal stockholders can exercise significant influence that could discourage transactions involving a change of control and may affect your ability to receive a premium for Class A Common Stock that you purchase.. As of May 14, 2018, as trustees of a voting trust dated February 23, 1994, (the Voting Trust) containing common stock held for the benefit of the Penny family, Robert C. Penny III, Robert W. Foskett and Patrick J. McDonough, Jr. have the exclusive power to vote over 49.6% of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of our common stock.  In addition, members of the Penny family who are beneficiaries under this Voting Trust are parties to a stock transfer restriction agreement which prohibits the beneficiaries from transferring any Class B Common Stock or their beneficial interests in the Voting Trust without first offering such Class B Common Stock to the other Penny family members. Certain Penny family members also own or are beneficiaries of trusts that own shares outside of the Voting Trust.  As trustees of the Voting Trust and other trusts, Messrs. Penny, Foskett and McDonough, Jr. control 53.5% of the stock vote.  Consequently, we are effectively under the control of Messrs. Penny, Foskett and McDonough, Jr., as trustees, who can effectively control the election of all of the directors and determine the outcome of most corporate transactions or other matters submitted to the stockholders for approval.  Such control may have the effect of discouraging transactions involving an actual or potential change of control, including transactions in which the holders of Class A Common Stock might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then-current market price."
