[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. We have made in this Form 10-K, and may from time to time make in other public filings, press releases and statements by management, forward-looking statements concerning WES's operations, economic performance and financial condition. These forward-looking statements include statements preceded by, followed by or that otherwise include the words \"believes,\" \"expects,\" \"anticipates,\" \"intends,\" \"estimates,\" \"projects,\" \"target,\" \"goal,\" \"plans,\" \"objective,\" \"should\" or similar expressions or variations on such expressions. These statements discuss future expectations, contain projections of results of operations or financial condition or include other \"forward-looking\" information.. Although we and WGP GP believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, neither we nor WGP GP can give any assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations include, but are not limited to, the following:. • our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders;. • our expected receipt of, and the amounts of, distributions from WES;. • WES's and Anadarko's assumptions about the energy market;. • WES's future throughput (including Anadarko production) which is gathered or processed by or transported through WES's assets;. • operating results of WES;. • competitive conditions;. • technology;. • the availability of capital resources to fund acquisitions, capital expenditures and other contractual obligations of WES, and WES's ability to access those resources from Anadarko or through the debt or equity capital markets;. • the supply of, demand for, and price of, oil, natural gas, NGLs and related products or services;. • WES's ability to mitigate exposure to the commodity price risks inherent in its percent-of-proceeds and keep-whole contracts through the extension of WES's commodity price swap agreements with Anadarko, or otherwise;. • weather and natural disasters;. • inflation;. • the availability of goods and services;. • general economic conditions, internationally, domestically or in the jurisdictions in which WES is doing business;. • federal, state and local laws, including those that limit Anadarko and other producers' hydraulic fracturing or other oil and natural gas operations;. • environmental liabilities;. 41. Table of Contents. • legislative or regulatory changes, including changes affecting our or WES's status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes;. • changes in the financial or operational condition of WES or Anadarko;. • the creditworthiness of Anadarko or WES's other counterparties, including financial institutions, operating partners, and other parties;. • changes in WES's or Anadarko's capital program, strategy or desired areas of focus;. • WES's commitments to capital projects;. • WES's ability to use the WES RCF;. • our and WES's ability to repay debt;. • conflicts of interest among WES, WES GP, WGP and WGP GP, and affiliates, including Anadarko;. • WES's ability to maintain and/or obtain rights to operate its assets on land owned by third parties;. • our or WES's ability to acquire assets on acceptable terms from Anadarko or third parties, and Anadarko's ability to generate an inventory of assets suitable for acquisition;. • non-payment or non-performance of Anadarko or WES's other significant customers, including under WES's gathering, processing, transportation and disposal agreements and its $260.0 million note receivable from Anadarko;. • the timing, amount and terms of our or WES's future issuances of equity and debt securities;. • the outcome of pending and future regulatory, legislative, or other proceedings or investigations, including the investigation by the National Transportation Safety Board (\"NTSB\") related to Anadarko's operations in Colorado, and continued or additional disruptions in operations that may occur as Anadarko and WES comply with regulatory orders or other state or local changes in laws or regulations in Colorado; and. • other factors discussed below and elsewhere in this Item 1A, under the caption Critical Accounting Estimates included under Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K, and in our other public filings and press releases.. The risk factors and other factors noted throughout this Form 10-K could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.. Common units are inherently different from capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in similar businesses. We urge you to carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K in evaluating an investment in the common units of WES or WGP.. If any of the following risks were to occur, the business, financial condition or results of operations of WES and/or WGP could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of the common units could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment.. 42. Table of Contents. RISKS INHERENT IN OUR BUSINESS. Our only cash-generating assets are our ownership interests in WES, and our cash flow is therefore completely dependent upon the ability of WES to make cash distributions to its partners.. The amount of cash that WES can distribute each quarter to its partners, including us, principally depends upon the amount of cash it generates from its operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:. • the prices of, level of production of, and demand for oil and natural gas;. • the volume of oil and natural gas that WES gathers, compresses, processes, treats and/or transports;. • the volumes and prices of NGLs and condensate that WES retains and sells;. • demand charges and volumetric fees associated with WES's transportation services;. • the level of competition from other midstream companies;. • regulatory action affecting the supply of or demand for oil or natural gas, the rates WES can charge, how it contracts for services, its existing contracts, its operating costs or its operating flexibility;. • prevailing economic conditions; and. • our continued success in the guidance, supervision and support of the execution of WES's business strategy.. In addition, the actual amount of cash WES will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond its control, including:. • the level of capital expenditures it makes;. • the level of its operating and maintenance and general and administrative costs;. • its debt service requirements and other payment obligations;. • fluctuations in its working capital needs;. • its ability to borrow funds and access capital markets;. • its treatment as a flow-through entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes;. • restrictions contained in debt agreements to which it is a party; and. • the amount of cash reserves established by WES GP.. Because of these factors, WES may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay quarterly distributions at its most recently paid amount of $0.920 per unit. The amount of cash that WES has available for distribution depends primarily upon its cash flow, including cash flow from operations and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, WES may be able to make cash distributions when it records losses for financial accounting purposes and may not be able to make cash distributions during periods when it records net income for financial accounting purposes. Read \" - Risks Inherent in WES's Business\" for a discussion of risks affecting WES's ability to generate cash flow.. 43. Table of Contents. WES GP, with our consent but without the consent of our unitholders, may limit or modify the incentive distributions we are entitled to receive from WES, which may reduce cash distributions to you.. We own WES GP, which owns the IDRs in WES that entitle us to receive increasing percentages, up to a maximum of 48.0%, of any cash distributed by WES as certain target distribution levels in excess of $0.345 per WES unit are reached in any quarter. A growing portion of the cash flow we receive from WES is expected to be provided by these IDRs.. WES, like other publicly traded partnerships, will generally only undertake an acquisition or expansion capital project if, after giving effect to related costs and expenses, the transaction would be expected to be accretive, meaning it would increase cash distributions per unit in future periods. Because WES GP currently participates in the IDRs at all levels, including the highest sharing level of 48.0%, it is more difficult for an acquisition or capital project to show accretion for the common unitholders of WES than if the IDRs received less incremental cash flow. As a result, WES GP may determine, in certain cases, to propose a reduction in the IDRs to facilitate a particular acquisition or expansion capital project. Such a reduction may relate to all of the cash flow on the IDRs or only to the expected cash flow from the transaction and may be either temporary or permanent in nature.. Our partnership agreement authorizes our general partner to approve any waiver, reduction, limitation or modification of or to WES's IDRs without the consent of our unitholders. In determining whether to approve any such waiver or modification, our general partner's Board of Directors or its Special Committee may consider whatever information it believes appropriate in making such determination. Our general partner's Board of Directors or its Special Committee must also believe that any such modification is in the best interest of our partnership. Any determination with respect to such modification could include consideration of one or more financial cases based on a number of business, industry, economic, legal, regulatory and other assumptions applicable to the proposed transaction. Although we expect a reasonable basis will exist for those assumptions, the assumptions will generally involve current estimates of future conditions, which are difficult to predict. Realization of many of the assumptions will be beyond our general partner's control. Moreover, the uncertainty and risk of inaccuracy associated with any financial projection will increase with the length of the forecasted period.. If distributions on the IDRs were reduced for the benefit of the WES common units, the total amount of cash distributions we would receive from WES, and therefore the amount of cash distributions we could pay to our unitholders, would be reduced.. The future growth of our limited partner distributions is primarily driven by our ownership of WES's IDRs. Any change to the structure or timing of IDR payments would therefore affect our limited partner distribution growth rate.. In the fourth quarter of 2017, 33.2% of WES's total distributions (excluding distributions on Class C units) were paid to us as a result of our ownership of WES's IDRs. As this percentage grows over time, WES's cost of equity capital will increase. WES therefore may be unable in the future to acquire or construct assets on an accretive basis and further grow its distributions. Any reduction in the rate of growth in WES distributions will disproportionately impact our ability to maintain or grow distributions to our limited partners.. We have from time to time discussed, and may discuss in the future, various transactions that would result in a simplification of our and WES's capital structure, including the potential modification or elimination of WES's IDRs. To date, no proposals have been made. Future evaluation of any such transaction, if any, will be based on a variety of factors, including general industry and market conditions. As a result, we can provide no assurance regarding the likelihood, timing or structure of any such transaction. If consummated, a simplification transaction could be dilutive to the holders of our common units and reduce the rate of our future distribution growth.. 44. Table of Contents. In the future, we may not have sufficient cash to pay distributions at our current rate or to increase distributions.. Because our only source of operating cash flow consists of cash distributions from WES, the amount of distributions we are able to make to our unitholders may fluctuate based on the level of distributions WES makes to its partners, including us. We cannot assure you that WES will continue to make quarterly distributions at its most recently paid level of $0.920 per unit or any other level, or increase its quarterly distributions in the future. In addition, while we would expect to increase or decrease distributions to our unitholders if WES were to increase or decrease distributions to us, the timing and amount of such changes in distributions, if any, would not necessarily be comparable to the timing and amount of any changes in distributions made by WES to us. Various factors such as reserves established by the Board of Directors may affect the distributions we make to our unitholders. In addition, prior to making any distributions to our unitholders, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all direct and indirect expenses incurred by them on our behalf. Our general partner will determine the amount of these reimbursed expenses. The reimbursement of these expenses could adversely affect the amount of distributions we make to our unitholders. We cannot guarantee that in the future we will be able to pay distributions at the current rate or that any distributions WES does pay to us will allow us to pay distributions at or above the current rate. The actual amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders will depend on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control or the control of our general partner.. Our rate of growth may be reduced to the extent we purchase additional WES common units, which will reduce the percentage of our cash flow that we receive from the IDRs.. Our business strategy includes supporting the growth of WES through the use of our capital resources, including by purchasing WES common units or lending funds to WES to finance acquisitions or internal growth projects. To the extent we purchase common units, or securities not entitled to a current distribution from WES, the rate of our distribution growth may be reduced, at least in the short term, because a smaller percentage of our cash distributions will come from our ownership of the WES IDRs, the distributions on which increase at a faster rate than those of the other securities we hold.. Our ability to meet our financial needs may be adversely affected by our cash distribution policy and our lack of operational assets.. Our cash distribution policy, which is consistent with our partnership agreement, requires us to distribute all of our available cash quarterly. Our only cash-generating assets are partnership interests in WES, and we currently have no independent operations separate from those of WES. Moreover, as discussed below, a reduction in WES's distributions will disproportionately affect the amount of cash distributions we receive. Given that our cash distribution policy is to distribute available cash and not retain it and that our only cash-generating assets are partnership interests in WES, we may not have enough cash to meet our needs if any of the following events occur:. • an increase in our operating expenses;. • an increase in our general and administrative expenses;. • an increase in our working capital requirements; or. • an increase in the cash needs of WES or its subsidiaries that reduces WES's distributions.. 45. Table of Contents. A reduction in WES's distributions will disproportionately affect the amount of cash distributions to which we are currently entitled.. Our indirect ownership of all the IDRs in WES entitles us to receive specified percentages of total cash distributions made by WES with respect to any particular quarter only in the event that WES distributes more than $0.345 per unit for such quarter. As a result, the holders of WES's common units have a priority over us to cash distributions by WES up to and including $0.345 per unit for any quarter.. Because we are currently participating at the 48.0% level on the IDRs, future growth in distributions paid by WES will not result in an increase in our share of incremental cash distributed by WES. Furthermore, a decrease in the amount of distributions by WES to less than $0.450 per unit per quarter would reduce our percentage of the incremental cash distributions above $0.375 per common unit per quarter from 48.0% to 23.0%, and a decrease in the amount of distributions by WES to levels below the other established target distribution levels would similarly reduce our percentage of the incremental cash distributions from WES. As a result, any reduction in quarterly cash distributions from WES would have the effect of disproportionately reducing the amount of all distributions that we receive from WES based on our indirect ownership of the IDRs in WES as compared to cash distributions we receive from WES with respect to our indirect general partner interest in WES and our WES common units.. If distributions on our common units are not paid with respect to any fiscal quarter, our unitholders will generally not be entitled to receive such payments in the future.. Our distributions to our unitholders will generally not be cumulative. Consequently, if distributions on our common units are not paid with respect to any fiscal quarter, our unitholders will generally not be entitled to receive such payments in the future.. Our and WES's cash distribution policies limit our respective abilities to grow.. Because we distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. In fact, our growth will initially be completely dependent upon WES's ability to increase its quarterly distribution per unit because currently our only cash-generating assets are partnership interests in WES. If we issue additional units or incur debt, including under our working capital facility, the payment of distributions on those additional units or interest on that debt could increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level.. In addition, consistent with the terms of its partnership agreement, WES distributes to its partners all of its available cash each quarter. To the extent WES does not have sufficient cash reserves or is unable to finance growth externally, its cash distribution policy will significantly impair its ability to grow. Further, to the extent WES issues additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital projects, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that WES will be unable to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level, which in turn may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders. The incurrence of additional debt to finance its growth strategy would result in increased interest expense to WES, which in turn may reduce the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders.. The debt that we incur may limit the distributions that we can pay to our unitholders.. Our payment of principal and interest on any future indebtedness, including under our working capital facility, will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We anticipate that any additional credit facility we enter into in the future would limit our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders during an event of default or if an event of default would result from the distributions.. In addition, any future indebtedness may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing for future operations or capital needs, limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities, or make our results of operations more susceptible to adverse economic or operating conditions.. 46. Table of Contents. Our failure to maintain an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting could adversely affect our ability to accurately report our results.. Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide a reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in our internal control that results in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Effective internal control is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and deter and detect any material fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent material fraud, our reputation and operating results will be harmed. Our efforts to develop and maintain our internal control and to remediate material weaknesses in our control may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain adequate control over our financial processes and reporting in the future, including future compliance with the obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to develop or maintain effective control, or difficulties encountered in their implementation or other effective improvement of our internal control, could harm our operating results. Ineffective internal control could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information.. Our unitholders do not elect our general partner or vote on our general partner's directors. In addition, Anadarko owns a sufficient number of our common units to allow it to prevent the removal of our general partner.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our unitholders have only limited voting rights and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Our unitholders do not have the ability to elect our general partner or the members of our general partner's Board of Directors. The members of our general partner's Board of Directors, including the independent directors, are chosen by Anadarko, the sole member of our general partner. Furthermore, if our public unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they have little ability to remove our general partner. Our general partner may not be removed except upon the vote of the holders of at least 80% of the outstanding common units. Because Anadarko owns more than 20% of our outstanding common units, our public unitholders are unable to remove our general partner without Anadarko's consent.. As a result of these provisions, the price at which our common units trade may be lower because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.. Our general partner may cause us to issue additional common units or other equity securities without your approval, which would dilute your ownership interests.. Our general partner may cause us to issue an unlimited number of additional common units or other equity securities, including securities that rank senior to the common units, without unitholder approval. The issuance of additional common units or other equity securities will have the following effects:. • your proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;. • the amount of cash available for distribution on each common unit may decrease;. • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common unit may be diminished;. • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; and. • the market price of the common units may decline.. 47. Table of Contents. The general partner interest in us or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, Anadarko, the owner of our general partner, may transfer its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party, also without unitholder consent. Our new general partner or the new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the Board of Directors and officers of our general partner and to control the decisions taken by the Board of Directors and officers.. If WES's unitholders remove WES GP, we would lose our general partner interest and IDRS in WES and the ability to manage WES.. We currently manage WES through WES GP, our wholly owned subsidiary. WES's partnership agreement, however, gives unitholders of WES the right to remove the general partner of WES upon the affirmative vote of holders of 66 2/3% of WES's outstanding units. If WES GP were to be removed as general partner of WES, it would receive cash or WES common units in exchange for its 1.5% general partner interest and the IDRs and would lose its ability to manage WES. While the WES common units or cash WES GP would receive are intended under the terms of WES's partnership agreement to fully compensate it in the event such an exchange is required, the value of these WES common units or of the investments WES GP makes with the cash over time may not be equivalent to the value of the general partner interest and the IDRs had it retained them. Furthermore, the conversion of the IDRs into WES common units would disproportionately impact the amount of cash distributions to which we are entitled with respect to increases in WES distributions.. In addition, if WES GP is removed as general partner of WES, we would face an increased risk of being deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the \"Investment Company Act\").. Our ability to sell our partnership interests in WES may be limited by securities law restrictions and liquidity constraints.. WGP owns 50,132,046 WES common units, all of which are unregistered and restricted securities, within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Unless we exercise our registration rights with respect to these common units, we will be limited to selling into the market in any three-month period an amount of WES common units that does not exceed the greater of 1.0% of the total number of WES common units outstanding or the average weekly reported trading volume of the WES common units for the four calendar weeks prior to the sale. In addition, we face contractual limitations under WES's partnership agreement on our ability to sell WES general partner units and the IDRs and the market for such interests is illiquid.. You may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business.. Under Delaware law, you could be held liable for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if a court were to determine that the right or the exercise of the right by our unitholders as a group to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other action under our partnership agreement constituted participation in the \"control\" of our business. Additionally, the limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the liabilities of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in many jurisdictions.. Furthermore, Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (the \"Delaware Act\") provides that, under some circumstances, a unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution.. 48. Table of Contents. If in the future we cease to manage and control WES, we may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act.. If we cease to manage and control WES and are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we will either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, obtain exemptive relief from the SEC or modify our organizational structure or our contractual rights to fall outside the definition of an investment company. Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage, require us to add additional directors who are independent of us and our affiliates, and adversely affect the price of our common units. In addition, if we were required to register under the Investment Company Act, we would be taxed as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Our partnership agreement restricts the rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our units.. Our unitholders' voting rights are restricted by a provision in our partnership agreement which provides that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the Board of Directors, cannot be voted on any matter. In addition, our partnership agreement contains provisions limiting the ability of our unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting our unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of our management. As a result, the price at which our common units trade may be lower because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.. WES may issue additional limited partner interests or other equity securities, which may increase the risk that WES will not have sufficient available cash to maintain or increase its cash distribution level.. WES has wide latitude to issue additional limited partner interests on the terms and conditions established by its general partner. We receive cash distributions from WES on the general partner interests, IDRs and limited partner interests that we hold. Because we expect a growing portion of the cash we receive from WES to be attributable to our ownership of the IDRs, payment of distributions on additional WES limited partner interests may increase the risk that WES will be unable to maintain or increase its quarterly cash distribution per unit, which in turn may reduce the amount of incentive distributions we receive and the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders.. If WES GP is not fully reimbursed or indemnified for obligations and liabilities it incurs in managing the business and affairs of WES, its value and, therefore, the value of our common units could decline.. WES GP, as the general partner of WES, may make expenditures on behalf of WES for which it will seek reimbursement from WES. Under Delaware partnership law, WES GP, in its capacity as the general partner of WES, has unlimited liability for the obligations of WES, such as its debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations of WES that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. WES GP has expressly made certain WES indebtedness recourse to it. To the extent WES GP incurs obligations on behalf of WES, it is entitled to be reimbursed or indemnified by WES. If WES is unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify WES GP, WES GP may not be able to satisfy those liabilities or obligations, which would reduce its cash flows to us.. The amount of cash distributions that we are able to distribute to our unitholders is reduced by the incremental costs associated with our being a publicly traded partnership, other general and administrative expenses and any reserves that our general partner believes prudent to maintain for the proper conduct of our business and for future distributions.. Before we can pay distributions to our unitholders, we must first pay our expenses, including the costs of being a publicly traded partnership and other operating expenses, and may establish reserves for debt service requirements, if any, for future distributions during periods of limited cash flows or for other purposes. In addition, we may reserve funds to allow our wholly owned subsidiary, WES GP, to make capital contributions to WES when WES issues additional common units.. 49. Table of Contents. The market price of our common units could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common units in the public or private markets, including sales by Anadarko or other large holders.. We had 218,933,141 common units outstanding as of December 31, 2017. Anadarko currently holds 178,587,365 common units, representing 81.6% of our outstanding common units. Anadarko's shelf registration statement allows for the offer and sale of up to 50 million, or 22.8% as of December 31, 2017, of our common units from time to time. Sales by Anadarko or other large holders of a substantial number of our common units in the public markets, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common units or could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. In addition, under our partnership agreement, our general partner and its affiliates, including Anadarko, have registration rights relating to the offer and sale of any units that they hold, subject to certain limitations.. Increases in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units, or WES's common units, to decline.. Interest rates may increase in the future, whether because of inflation, increased yields on U.S. Treasury obligations or otherwise. As is true with other MLPs (the common units of which are often viewed by investors as yield-oriented securities), the price of our and WES's common units are impacted by our and WES's levels of cash distributions and implied distribution yields. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our common units or WES's common units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price, WES's unit price, and our and WES's ability to make cash distributions at intended levels.. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements.. Because we are a publicly traded partnership, the NYSE does not require our general partner to have a majority of independent directors on its Board of Directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Accordingly, unitholders do not have the same protections afforded to the stockholders of certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.. 50. Table of Contents. RISKS RELATED TO CONFLICTS OF INTEREST. WES GP owes duties to WES's unitholders that may conflict with our interests, including in connection with the terms of contractual agreements, the determination of cash distributions to be made by WES, and the determination of whether WES should make acquisitions and on what terms.. Conflicts of interest exist and may arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, including WES GP, on the one hand, and WES and its limited partners, on the other hand. The directors and officers of WES GP have duties to manage WES in a manner beneficial to us, as WES GP's owner. At the same time, WES GP, as the general partner of WES, has a duty to manage WES in a manner beneficial to WES and its limited partners. The Board of Directors of WES GP or its Special Committee will resolve any such conflict and have broad latitude to consider the interests of all parties to the conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our unitholders.. For example, conflicts of interest may arise in connection with the following:. • the terms and conditions of any contractual agreements between us and our affiliates, including Anadarko, on the one hand, and WES, on the other hand;. • the determination of the amount of cash to be distributed to WES's partners, including us, and the amount of cash to be reserved for the future conduct of WES's business;. • the determination of whether WES should make acquisitions and on what terms;. • the determination of whether WES should use cash on hand, borrow or issue equity to raise cash to finance acquisitions or expansion capital projects, repay indebtedness, meet working capital needs, pay distributions or otherwise;. • any decision we make in the future to engage in business activities independent of WES; and. • the allocation of shared overhead expenses to WES and us.. 51. Table of Contents. Potential conflicts of interest may arise among our general partner, its affiliates and us. Our general partner has limited its state law fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders, which may permit it to favor its own interests to the detriment of us and our unitholders.. Anadarko, the owner of our general partner, owns an 81.6% limited partner interest in us. Conflicts of interest may arise among our general partner and its affiliates (including Anadarko), on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations:. • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its state law fiduciary duty to our unitholders;. • our general partner determines whether or not we incur debt and that decision may affect our or WES's credit ratings;. • our general partner will have limited liability and fiduciary duties under our partnership agreement, which will restrict the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. As a result of purchasing common units, our unitholders consent to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law;. • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates;. • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us;. • our partnership agreement gives our general partner broad discretion in establishing financial reserves for the proper conduct of our business. These reserves will affect the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders;. • our general partner determines the amount and timing of capital expenditures, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders;. • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; and. • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf.. Read Our Relationship with WES and WES GP and Conflicts of Interest under Part III, Item 13 of this Form 10-K.. 52. Table of Contents. A reduction in Anadarko's ownership interest in us may reduce its incentive to support WES.. As discussed in WES's Relationship with Anadarko Petroleum Corporation in Part I, Items 1 and 2 of this Form 10-K, we believe that one of our principal strengths is our and WES's relationship with Anadarko, and that Anadarko, through its significant indirect economic interest in us and WES, will continue to be motivated to promote and support the successful execution of WES's business plan and to pursue projects that help to enhance the value of WES's business. In 2014, Anadarko began monetizing a portion of its investment in us, including the sale of an aggregate of 20,550,000 WGP common units and 9,200,000 tangible equity units, each of which is in part comprised of a prepaid equity purchase contract that can be settled in WGP common units. To the extent Anadarko's net interest in WES continues to decline through the sale of its WGP holdings or otherwise, Anadarko may be less incentivized to grow WES's business by offering WES assets or commercial arrangements. For example, a decrease in Anadarko's net holdings in us or WES could reduce Anadarko's incentive to renew WES's commodity price swap agreements on terms as favorable as currently exist or at all. Accordingly, a decrease in Anadarko's net holdings in us or WES could have a material adverse effect on WES's business, results of operations, financial position and ability to grow or make cash distributions to WES's unitholders.. The duties of our general partner's officers and directors may conflict with their duties as officers and directors of WES GP.. Our general partner's officers and directors have duties to manage our business in a manner that is beneficial to us, our unitholders and the owner of our general partner, Anadarko. However, a majority of our general partner's directors and all of its officers are also officers and/or directors of WES GP, which has duties to manage the business of WES in a manner beneficial to WES and WES's unitholders. Consequently, these directors and officers may encounter situations in which their obligations to WES on the one hand, and us, on the other hand, are in conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our unitholders.. In addition, our general partner's officers, who are also the officers of WES GP and certain of whom are officers of Anadarko, will have responsibility for overseeing the allocation of their own time and time spent by administrative personnel on our behalf and on behalf of WES and/or Anadarko. These officers face conflicts regarding these time allocations that may adversely affect our or WES's results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.. Anadarko is not limited in its ability to compete with WES and is not obligated to offer WES the opportunity to acquire additional assets or businesses, which could limit WES's ability to grow and could adversely affect our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. Anadarko is not prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with WES. In addition, in the future, we or Anadarko may acquire, construct or dispose of additional midstream or other assets and may be presented with new business opportunities, without any obligation to offer WES the opportunity to participate in such transactions. Moreover, while Anadarko may offer WES the opportunity to buy additional assets from it, it is under no contractual obligation to do so, and we are unable to predict whether or when such acquisitions might be completed.. Our partnership agreement replaces our general partner's fiduciary duties to our unitholders.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate and replace the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement:. • permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples of decisions that our general partner may make in its individual capacity include whether to exercise its limited call right, how to exercise its voting rights with respect to any common units it owns, whether to exercise its registration rights and whether to consent to any merger or consolidation of our partnership or amendment to our partnership agreement;. • provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed the decisions were in the best interests of our partnership;. 53. Table of Contents. • generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the Special Committee of the Board of Directors and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be \"fair and reasonable\" to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is \"fair and reasonable,\" our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us;. • provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision the general partner acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption; and. • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that such person's conduct was criminal.. In order to become a limited partner of our partnership, our unitholders are required to agree to be bound by the provisions in our partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above.. Our general partner has a call right that may require you to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time more than 95% of our outstanding common units are owned by our general partner and its affiliates, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the remaining units held by unaffiliated persons at a price that is not less than the then-current market price of the common units. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your common units. Our general partner's affiliates own 81.6% of our common units.. Our general partner may mortgage, pledge or grant a security interest in our assets without prior approval of our unitholders, and Anadarko may similarly mortgage, pledge or grant a security interest in its assets, including its ownership interests in us.. In March 2016, we entered into the WGP RCF, under which we granted the lenders party thereto a security interest in substantially all of our assets. If we are unable to satisfy our obligation to repay amounts outstanding under the WGP RCF, the lenders could seek to foreclose on our assets. Foreclosure upon, and any resulting sale of, such assets by the lenders would adversely affect our ability to pay distributions and could adversely affect the price of our common units and WES common units and result in our loss of control of WES. Further, Anadarko may mortgage, pledge or grant a security interest in any of its assets, including its general and limited partner interest in us. If Anadarko at any time were to decide to secure any of its obligations or indebtedness with some or all of its ownership interests in us, and if Anadarko were to be unable to satisfy such obligations or repay such indebtedness, the lenders could seek to foreclose on those assets. The lenders could also sell those assets under such foreclosure or other realization upon those encumbrances without prior approval of our unitholders, which would adversely affect the price of our common units and could result in Anadarko's loss of control of us and WES.. 54. Table of Contents. RISKS INHERENT IN WES'S BUSINESS. WES is dependent on Anadarko for a substantial portion of the natural gas, crude oil, NGLs and produced water that it gathers, treats, processes, transports and/or disposes. A material reduction in Anadarko's production that is gathered, treated, processed or transported by WES would result in a material decline in WES's revenues and cash available for distribution.. WES relies on Anadarko for a substantial portion of the natural gas, crude oil, NGLs and produced water that it gathers, treats, processes, transports and/or disposes. For the year ended December 31, 2017, production owned or controlled by Anadarko represented (i) 34% of WES's natural gas gathering, treating and transportation throughput (excluding equity investment throughput), (ii) 41% of WES's natural gas processing throughput (excluding equity investment throughput), and (iii) 56% of WES's crude oil, NGL and produced water gathering, treating, transportation and disposal throughput (excluding equity investment throughput). Anadarko may decrease its production in the areas serviced by WES and is under no contractual obligation to maintain its production volumes dedicated to WES pursuant to the terms of its applicable gathering agreements. The loss of a significant portion of production volumes supplied by Anadarko would result in a material decline in WES's revenues and its cash available for distribution. In addition, Anadarko may determine that drilling activity in areas other than WES's areas of operation is strategically more attractive. A shift in Anadarko's focus away from WES's areas of operation could result in reduced throughput on its systems and a material decline in its revenues and cash available for distribution.. Because WES is substantially dependent on Anadarko as its primary customer and the controlling party of its general partner, any development that materially and adversely affects Anadarko's operations, financial condition or market reputation could have a material and adverse impact on WES and us. Material adverse changes at Anadarko could restrict WES's or our access to capital, make it more expensive to access the capital markets or increase the costs of WES's or our borrowings.. WES is substantially dependent on Anadarko as its primary customer and the controlling party of its general partner and expects to derive a majority of its revenues from Anadarko for the foreseeable future. As a result, any event, whether in WES's area of operations or otherwise, that adversely affects Anadarko's production, financial condition, leverage, market reputation, liquidity, results of operations or cash flows may adversely affect WES's and our revenues and cash available for distribution. Accordingly, we and WES are indirectly subject to the business risks of Anadarko, some of which are the following:. • the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which could have a negative effect on the value of Anadarko's oil and natural gas properties, its drilling programs and its ability to finance its operations;. • the availability of capital on favorable terms to fund Anadarko's exploration and development activities;. • a reduction in or reallocation of Anadarko's capital budget, which could reduce the gathering, transportation and treating volumes available to WES as a midstream operator, limit WES's midstream opportunities for organic growth or limit the inventory of midstream assets WES may acquire from Anadarko;. • Anadarko's ability to replace its oil and natural gas reserves;. • Anadarko's operations in foreign countries, which are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties;. • Anadarko's drilling, flowline, pipeline, and operating risks, including potential environmental liabilities;. • transportation capacity constraints and interruptions;. • adverse effects of governmental and environmental regulation;. • shareholder activism with respect to Anadarko's stock or activities by non-governmental organizations to restrict the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas by Anadarko; and. • adverse effects from current or future litigation.. 55. Table of Contents. Further, WES is subject to the risk of non-payment or non-performance by Anadarko, including with respect to its gathering and transportation agreements, its $260.0 million note receivable from Anadarko and its commodity price swap agreements. We cannot predict the extent to which Anadarko's business would be impacted if conditions in the energy industry were to deteriorate further, nor can we estimate the impact such conditions would have on Anadarko's ability to perform under its gathering and transportation agreements, note receivable or commodity price swap agreements. Accordingly, any material non-payment or non-performance by Anadarko could reduce WES's ability to make distributions to its partners, including us.. Also, due to WES's relationship with Anadarko, WES's ability to access the capital markets, or the pricing or other terms of any capital markets transactions, may be adversely affected by any impairments to Anadarko's financial condition or adverse changes in its credit ratings.. Any material limitations on our or WES's ability to access capital as a result of such adverse changes at Anadarko could limit our or WES's ability to obtain future financing on favorable terms, or at all, or could result in increased financing costs in the future. Similarly, material adverse changes at Anadarko could negatively impact our or WES's unit price, limiting our or WES's ability to raise capital through equity issuances or debt financing, or could negatively affect our or WES's ability to engage in, expand or pursue our or its business activities, and could also prevent us or WES from engaging in certain transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us or WES.. See Part I, Item 1A in Anadarko's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (which is not, and shall not be deemed to be, incorporated by reference herein), for a full discussion of the risks associated with Anadarko's business.. Sustained low natural gas, NGL or oil prices could adversely affect WES's business.. Sustained low natural gas, NGL or oil prices impact natural gas and oil exploration and production activity levels and can result in a decline in the production of hydrocarbons over the medium to long term, resulting in reduced throughput on WES's systems. Such a decline also potentially affects the ability of WES's vendors, suppliers and customers to continue operations. As a result, sustained lower natural gas and crude oil prices could have a material adverse effect on WES's business, results of operations, financial condition and its ability to pay cash distributions to its partners, including us.. In general terms, the prices of natural gas, oil, condensate, NGLs and other hydrocarbon products fluctuate in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond WES's control. For example, market prices for natural gas have declined substantially from the highs achieved in 2008 and have remained depressed for several years. More recently, uncertain global demand for crude oil and the increased supply resulting from the rapid development of shale plays throughout North America have contributed significantly to a substantial drop in crude oil prices. Rapid development of the North American shale plays has also increased the supply of natural gas contributing to a substantial drop in natural gas prices. Additional factors impacting commodity prices include the following:. • domestic and worldwide economic and geopolitical conditions;. • weather conditions and seasonal trends;. • the ability to develop recently discovered fields or deploy new technologies to existing fields;. • the levels of domestic production and consumer demand, as affected by, among other things, concerns over inflation, geopolitical issues and the availability and cost of credit;. • the availability of imported, or a market for exported, liquefied natural gas;. • the availability of transportation systems with adequate capacity;. • the volatility and uncertainty of regional pricing differentials, such as in the Rocky Mountains;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels;. 56. Table of Contents. • the effect of energy conservation measures;. • the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation; and. • the forecasted supply and demand for, and prices of, oil, natural gas, NGLs and other commodities.. WES generates distributable cash flow from the above-market component of commodity price swap agreements with Anadarko that are scheduled to expire on December 31, 2018.. As discussed in more detail in Note 5 - Transactions with Affiliates in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K, for the year ended December 31, 2017, WES had commodity price swap agreements in place with Anadarko related to its activities at the DJ Basin complex and MGR assets at prices that were significantly higher than those that could have been obtained from third parties on the open market. WES records the above-market component of this swap activity as a cash contribution from Anadarko in the period in which attributable volumes are settled, with all such contributions included in its calculation of distributable cash flows. During 2017, for example, WES recorded $58.6 million in cash contributions from Anadarko related to these swaps.. On December 20, 2017, WES renewed its commodity price swap agreements with Anadarko for the DJ Basin complex and the MGR assets at significantly higher prices than those that could have been obtained from third parties on the open market. These swap agreements expire on December 31, 2018.. WES may be unable to further renew the swaps with Anadarko for the DJ Basin complex and the MGR assets on similar terms or at all. If such agreements are renewed with Anadarko, they may be renewed at lower prices than those established in the agreements currently in place. In the event that WES is unable to renew agreements with Anadarko, it may seek to enter into third-party commodity price swap agreements or similar hedging arrangements. Any such market-based hedging arrangement is likely to be significantly less favorable from a commodity pricing perspective and would likely result in a significant decrease in WES's distributable cash flow.. Because of the natural decline in production from existing wells, WES's success depends on its ability to obtain new sources of oil and natural gas, which is dependent on certain factors beyond WES's control. Any decrease in the volumes that WES gathers, processes, treats and transports could adversely affect its business and operating results.. The volumes that support WES's business are dependent on, among other things, the level of production from natural gas and oil wells connected to its gathering systems and processing and treating facilities. This production will naturally decline over time. As a result, WES's cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels on its systems, WES must obtain new sources of oil and natural gas. The primary factors affecting WES's ability to obtain sources of oil and natural gas include (i) the level of successful drilling activity near its systems, (ii) its ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells, to the extent such wells are not dedicated to its systems, and (iii) its ability to capture volumes currently gathered or processed by Anadarko or third parties.. While Anadarko has dedicated production from certain of its properties to WES, WES has no control over the level of drilling activity in its areas of operation, the amount of reserves associated with wells connected to its systems or the rate at which production from a well declines. In addition, WES has no control over Anadarko or other producers or their drilling or production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, the availability and cost of capital, prevailing and projected commodity prices, demand for hydrocarbons, levels of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulations, the availability of drilling rigs and other production and development costs. Fluctuations in commodity prices can also greatly affect investments by Anadarko and third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Declines in oil and natural gas prices have materially reduced exploration, development and production activity in some regions and, if sustained, could lead to a further decrease in such activity. Sustained reductions in exploration or production activity in WES's areas of operation would lead to reduced utilization of its gathering, processing and treating assets.. Because of these factors, even if new oil and natural gas reserves are known to exist in areas served by WES's assets, producers (including Anadarko) may choose not to develop those reserves. Moreover, Anadarko may not develop the acreage it has dedicated to WES. If competition or reductions in drilling activity result in WES's inability to maintain the current levels of throughput on its systems, it could reduce WES's revenue and impair its ability to make cash distributions to its partners, including us.. 57. Table of Contents. WES's strategies to reduce its exposure to changes in commodity prices may fail to protect WES and could negatively impact its financial condition, thereby reducing its cash flows and ability to make distributions to its partners, including us.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, 6% of WES's Adjusted gross margin was generated under percent-of-proceeds and keep-whole arrangements pursuant to which the associated revenues and expenses are directly correlated with the prices of natural gas, crude oil and NGLs. This percentage may significantly increase as a result of future acquisitions, if any. See How WES Evaluates Its Operations under Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K.. WES pursues various strategies to seek to reduce its exposure to adverse changes in the prices for natural gas, condensate and NGLs. These strategies will vary in scope based upon the level and volatility of natural gas, condensate and NGL prices and other changing market conditions. WES currently has in place commodity price swap agreements with Anadarko expiring in December 2018 to manage a majority of the commodity price risk otherwise inherent in its percent-of-proceeds and keep-whole contracts. To the extent that WES engages in price risk management activities such as the commodity price swap agreements, it may be prevented from realizing the full benefits of price increases above the levels set in those agreements. In addition, WES's commodity price management may expose it to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including if the counterparties to its hedging or other price risk management contracts fail to perform under those arrangements.. On December 20, 2017, WES renewed its commodity price swap agreements with Anadarko for the DJ Basin complex and the MGR assets through December 31, 2018. Upon the expiration of these commodity price swap agreements, WES may be unable to renew such agreements with Anadarko on similar terms or at all. If such agreements are renewed with Anadarko, they may be renewed at lower prices than those established in the agreements currently in place. In the event that WES is unable to renew agreements with Anadarko, it may seek to enter into third-party commodity price swap agreements or similar hedging arrangements. Any such market-based hedging arrangement is likely to be significantly less favorable from a commodity pricing perspective and would likely expose WES to volumetric risk to which it is currently not exposed, because WES's current commodity price swap agreements with Anadarko are based on actual WES volumes.. Additionally, if WES is unable to effectively manage the risk associated with its contracts that have commodity price exposure, it could have a material adverse effect on WES's business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to its partners, including us.. 58. Table of Contents. Changes in laws or regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs, operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells, which could decrease the need for WES's gathering and processing services.. While WES does not conduct hydraulic fracturing, its customers do conduct such activities. Hydraulic fracturing is an essential and common practice used by many of WES's oil and natural gas exploration and production customers to stimulate production of natural gas and oil from dense subsurface rock formations such as shales. Hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and natural-gas commissions, but, in recent years, several federal agencies have also asserted regulatory authority over and proposed or promulgated regulations governing certain aspects of the process. For example, in June 2016, the EPA published an effluent limit guideline final rule prohibiting the discharge of wastewater from onshore unconventional oil and gas extraction facilities to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants.. Additionally, in Colorado, where 28% of WES's throughput for natural gas assets (excluding equity investment throughput) is generated, certain interest groups opposed to oil and natural gas development generally, and hydraulic fracturing in particular, have from time to time pursued ballot initiatives that, if approved, would allow revisions to the state constitution in a manner that would make such exploration and production activities more difficult or costly in the future.. Furthermore, Congress has from time to time considered the adoption of legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing. At the state level, a growing number of states have adopted or are considering adopting legal requirements that could impose more stringent disclosure and/or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations, and states could elect to prohibit high-volume hydraulic fracturing altogether, following the approach taken by the State of New York. In addition, local governments may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular. Further, in December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, concluding that \"water cycle\" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources \"under some circumstances.\". If new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions or prohibitions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where WES's oil and natural gas exploration and production customers operate, those customers could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements and experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, which could reduce demand for WES's gathering and processing services. Moreover, increased regulation of the hydraulic fracturing process could also lead to greater opposition to, and litigation over, oil and natural gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques.. Regulations relating to potential induced seismic activity associated with produced water disposal could affect WES's operations.. WES disposes of produced water generated from oil and natural gas production operations. The legal requirements related to the disposal of produced water in underground injection wells are subject to change based on concerns of the public or governmental authorities, including concerns relating to recent seismic events near injection wells used for the disposal of produced water. In response to such concerns, regulators in some states have imposed, or are considering imposing, additional requirements in the permitting of produced water disposal wells or are otherwise investigating the existence of a relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. For example, Colorado developed and follows guidance when issuing underground injection control permits to limit the maximum injection pressure, rate, and volume of water. Oklahoma has issued rules for wastewater disposal wells that imposed certain permitting and operating restrictions and reporting requirements on disposal wells in proximity to faults, and is also developing and implementing plans directing certain wells where seismic incidents have occurred to restrict or suspend disposal well operations. The Texas Railroad Commission has also adopted similar permitting, operating, and reporting rules for disposal wells. In addition, ongoing class action lawsuits, to which we and WES are not currently a party, allege that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. These developments could result in additional regulation and restrictions on WES's use of injection wells to dispose of produced water, which could have a material adverse effect on WES's results of operations, capital expenditures and operating costs, and financial condition.. 59. Table of Contents. Adverse developments in WES's geographic areas of operation could disproportionately impact WES's business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to its partners, including us.. WES's business and operations are concentrated in a limited number of producing areas. Due to WES's limited geographic diversification, adverse operational developments, regulatory or legislative changes, or other events in an area in which WES has significant operations could have a greater impact on WES's business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to its partners, including us, than they would if WES's operations were more diversified.. If Anadarko were to limit transfers of midstream assets to WES or if WES were to be unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms from Anadarko or third parties, WES's future growth would be limited. In addition, any acquisitions WES makes may reduce, rather than increase, its cash generated from operations on a per-unit basis or otherwise fail to meet WES's expectations.. WES's ability to grow depends, in part, on its ability to make acquisitions that increase its cash generated from operations on a per-unit basis. The acquisition component of WES's strategy is based, in large part, on its expectation of ongoing divestitures of midstream assets by industry participants, including, most notably, Anadarko. A material decrease in such divestitures would limit WES's opportunities for future acquisitions and could adversely affect its ability to grow its operations and increase its distributions to its partners, including us.. If WES is unable to make accretive acquisitions from Anadarko or third parties because, among other things, (i) it is unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts, (ii) it is unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, (iii) it is outbid by competitors, including as a result of increases in its overall cost of capital resulting from its capital structure, or (iv) Anadarko lacks assets suitable for it to acquire, then its future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. Furthermore, even if WES makes acquisitions that it believes will be accretive, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in the cash generated from operations on a per-unit basis.. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including the following, among other things:. • mistaken assumptions about volumes or the timing of those volumes, revenues or costs, including synergies;. • an inability to successfully integrate the acquired assets or businesses;. • the assumption of unknown liabilities;. • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller;. • mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt;. • the diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns;. • unforeseen difficulties operating in new geographic areas; and. • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses.. If WES consummates any future acquisitions, its capitalization and results of operations may change significantly.. 60. Table of Contents. WES may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all. This may hinder or prevent WES from meeting its future capital needs.. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, volatile, especially for companies involved in the oil and gas industry. The repricing of credit risk and the recent relatively weak economic conditions have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult for some entities to obtain funding. In addition, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on terms similar to the borrower's current debt, and reduced, or in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Further, WES may be unable to obtain adequate funding under the WES RCF if its lending counterparties become unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations. Due to these factors, WES cannot be certain that funding will be available if needed and to the extent required on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, WES may be unable to execute its business plans, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on WES's financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions to its partners, including us.. Restrictions in the indentures governing WES's publicly traded notes (collectively, the \"WES Notes\") or the WES RCF may limit WES's ability to capitalize on acquisitions and other business opportunities.. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in the agreements governing the WES Notes, the WES RCF and any future financing arrangements could restrict WES's ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue business activities associated with WES's subsidiaries and equity investments. The WES RCF contains, and with respect to the second, fourth and fifth bullets below, the indentures governing the WES Notes contain, covenants that restrict or limit WES's ability to do the following:. • incur additional indebtedness or guarantee other indebtedness;. • grant liens to secure obligations other than its obligations under the WES Notes or the WES RCF or agree to restrictions on its ability to grant additional liens to secure its obligations under the WES Notes or the WES RCF;. • engage in transactions with affiliates;. • make any material change to the nature of its business from the midstream business; or. • enter into a merger, consolidate, liquidate, wind up or dissolve.. The WES RCF also contains various customary covenants, customary events of default and a maximum consolidated leverage ratio as of the end of each quarter (which is defined as the ratio of consolidated indebtedness as of the last day of a fiscal quarter to Consolidated EBITDA, as defined in the WES RCF, for the most recent four consecutive fiscal quarters ending on such day) of 5.0 to 1.0, or a consolidated leverage ratio of 5.5 to 1.0 with respect to quarters ending in the 270-day period immediately following certain acquisitions. See Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K for a further discussion of the terms of the WES RCF and WES Notes.. 61. Table of Contents. Debt WES owes or incurs in the future may limit its flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities.. WES's indebtedness could have important consequences to WES, including the following:. • its ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms;. • its funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of its cash flows required to make interest payments on its debt;. • it may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in its business or the economy generally; and. • its flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited.. WES's ability to service its debt will depend upon, among other things, its future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond WES's control. If WES's operating results are not sufficient to service any future indebtedness, it will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying its business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. WES may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all.. WES's business could be negatively affected by security threats, including cyber threats, and other disruptions.. WES faces various security threats, including cyber threats to the security of its facilities and infrastructure, attempts to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable and terrorist acts. WES's implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for its facilities, infrastructure and information may result in increased costs. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. Cyber attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited to, malicious software intended to gain unauthorized access to data and systems, electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. For example, the gathering, processing, treating and transportation of natural gas from WES's gathering systems, processing facilities and pipelines are dependent on communications among WES's facilities and with third-party systems that may be delivering natural gas into or receiving natural gas and other products from WES's facilities. Disruption of those communications, whether caused by cyber attacks or otherwise, may disrupt WES's ability to deliver natural gas and control these assets.. There is no assurance that WES will not suffer material losses from cyber attacks in the future, and as such threats continue to evolve, WES may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance its protective measures or to investigate or remediate any cyber vulnerabilities. Any terrorist or cyber attack against, or other disruption of, WES assets or computer systems could have a material adverse effect on WES's business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to its partners, including us.. The amount of cash WES has available for distribution to its partners, including us, depends primarily on its cash flows rather than on its profitability. As a result, WES may be prevented from making distributions, even during periods in which it records net income.. The amount of cash WES has available for distribution depends primarily upon its cash flows and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, WES may make cash distributions for periods in which it records losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions for periods in which it records net earnings for financial accounting purposes.. 62. Table of Contents. WES typically does not obtain independent evaluations of hydrocarbon reserves connected to its systems. Therefore, in the future, throughput on WES's systems could be less than WES anticipates.. WES typically does not obtain independent evaluations of hydrocarbon reserves connected to its systems. Accordingly, WES does not have independent estimates of total reserves connected to its systems or the anticipated life of such reserves. If the total reserves or estimated life of the reserves connected to WES's systems are less than WES anticipates, or the timeline for the development of reserves is greater than WES anticipates, and WES is unable to secure additional sources of oil and natural gas, there could be a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to its partners, including us.. WES's industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect its business and operating results.. WES competes with similar enterprises in its areas of operation. WES's competitors may expand or construct midstream systems that would create additional competition for the services it provides to its customers. In addition, WES's customers, including Anadarko, may develop their own midstream systems in lieu of using WES's. WES's ability to renew or replace existing contracts with its customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of its competitors and customers. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on WES's business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to its partners, including us.. WES's results of operations could be adversely affected by asset impairments.. If commodity prices decrease, WES may be required to write down the value of its midstream properties if the estimated future cash flows from these properties fall below their net book value. Because WES is an affiliate of Anadarko, the assets WES acquires from Anadarko are recorded at Anadarko's carrying value prior to the transaction. Accordingly, WES may be at an increased risk for impairments because the initial book values of a substantial portion of its assets do not have a direct relationship with, and in some cases could be significantly higher than, the amounts WES paid to acquire such assets. For example, see the discussion of material impairments at WES's Hilight system and Red Desert and Granger complexes in Note 7 - Property, Plant and Equipment in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.. Further, at December 31, 2017, WES had $416.2 million of goodwill on its balance sheet. Goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business acquired exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. In addition, similar to the carrying value of the assets WES acquired from Anadarko, part of WES's goodwill is an allocated portion of Anadarko's goodwill, which WES recorded as a component of the carrying value of the assets it acquired from Anadarko. As a result, WES may be at increased risk for impairments relative to entities who acquire their assets from third parties or construct their own assets, as the carrying value of WES's goodwill does not reflect, and in some cases is significantly higher than, the difference between the consideration WES paid for its acquisitions and the fair value of the net assets on the acquisition date.. Goodwill is not amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairments, and more frequently when circumstances indicate likely impairments, by applying a fair-value-based test. Goodwill is deemed impaired to the extent that its carrying amount exceeds its implied fair value. Various factors could lead to goodwill impairments, such as WES's inability to maintain throughput on its assets or sustained lower oil and natural gas prices, by reducing the fair value of the associated reporting unit. Prolonged low or further declines in commodity prices and changes to producers' drilling plans in response to lower prices could result in additional impairments in future periods. Future non-cash asset impairments could negatively affect WES's results of operations.. 63. Table of Contents. If third-party pipelines or other facilities interconnected to WES's gathering, transportation, treating or processing systems become partially or fully unavailable, or if the volumes WES gathers or transports do not meet the quality requirements of such pipelines or facilities, WES's revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected.. WES's gathering, transportation, treating and processing systems are connected to other pipelines or facilities, the majority of which are owned by third parties. The continuing operation of such third-party pipelines or facilities is not within WES's control. If any of these pipelines or facilities becomes unable to transport, treat or process crude oil, natural gas or NGLs, or if the volumes WES gathers or transports do not meet the quality requirements of such pipelines or facilities, WES's revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected.. WES's interstate natural gas and liquids transportation assets and operations are subject to regulation by FERC, which could have an adverse effect on WES's revenues and WES's ability to make distributions.. The interstate natural gas pipelines owned by WES are subject to regulation by FERC. If WES fails to comply with all applicable FERC-administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, WES could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. FERC has civil penalty authority to impose penalties for certain violations potentially in excess of $1.0 million per day for each violation. FERC also has the power to order disgorgement of profits from transactions deemed to violate applicable statutes. For additional information, read Regulation of Operations - Interstate Natural Gas Pipeline Regulation under Items 1 and 2 of this Form 10-K.. The interstate liquids pipelines owned by WES are common carriers and are also subject to regulation by FERC. FERC regulation requires that common carrier liquid pipeline rates and interstate natural gas pipeline rates be filed with FERC and that these rates be \"just and reasonable\" and not unduly discriminatory. Interested persons may challenge proposed new or changed rates, and FERC is authorized to suspend the effectiveness of such rates pending an investigation or hearing. FERC may also investigate, upon complaint or on its own motion, rates that are already in effect and may order a carrier to change its rates prospectively. Accordingly, action by FERC could adversely affect WES's ability to establish reasonable rates that cover operating costs and allow for a reasonable return. An adverse determination in any future rate proceeding brought by or against us could have a material adverse effect on WES's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash available for distribution. For example, one such matter relates to FERC's policy regarding allowances for income taxes in determining a regulated entity's cost of service. FERC allows regulated companies to recover an allowance for income taxes in rates only to the extent the company or its owners, such as WES's unitholders, are subject to U.S. income tax. This policy affects whom WES allows to own its units, and if WES is not successful in limiting ownership of its units to persons or entities subject to U.S. income tax, WES's FERC-regulated rates and revenues for its FERC-regulated gas and liquids pipelines could be adversely affected. For additional information, read Regulation of Operations - Interstate Liquids Pipeline Regulation under Items 1 and 2 of this Form 10-K.. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of WES's assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies could result in increased regulation of its assets, which could cause WES's revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase.. WES believes that its gas gathering systems meet the traditional tests FERC has used to determine if a pipeline is a gas gathering pipeline and is, therefore, not subject to FERC jurisdiction. FERC, however, has not made any determinations with respect to the jurisdictional status of any of these gas gathering systems. The distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services has been the subject of ongoing litigation and, over time, FERC policy concerning which activities it regulates and which activities are excluded from its regulation has changed. State regulation of gathering facilities generally includes various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take requirements and complaint-based rate regulation. In recent years, FERC has regulated the gas gathering activities of interstate pipeline transmission companies more lightly, which has resulted in a number of such companies transferring gathering facilities to unregulated affiliates. As a result of these activities, natural gas gathering may begin to receive greater regulatory scrutiny at both the state and federal levels.. FERC makes jurisdictional determinations for both natural gas gathering and liquids lines on a case-by-case basis. The classification and regulation of WES's pipelines are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts or Congress. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of WES's assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies could result in increased regulation of its assets, which could cause its revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase. For additional information, read Regulation of Operations  - Natural Gas Gathering Pipeline Regulation under Items 1 and 2 of this Form 10-K.. 64. Table of Contents. The adoption of climate change or other air emissions legislation or regulations restricting emissions of GHGs or other air pollutants could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the gathering, processing, compressing, treating and transporting services WES provides.. Changes in climate change or other air emissions laws and regulations, or reinterpretations of enforcement or other guidance with respect thereto, that govern areas where WES operates may negatively impact WES's operations. Examples of such proposed and/or final regulations or other regulatory initiatives are included below.. • Ground-Level Ozone Standards. In October 2015, the EPA issued a rule under the Clean Air Act, lowering the National Ambient Air Quality Standard (\"NAAQS\") for ground-level ozone from 75 parts per billion to 70 parts per billion. The EPA published a final rule in November 2017 that issued attainment or unclassifiable area designations with respect to ground-level ozone for numerous counties in the United States and is expected to issue non-attainment area designations in the first half of 2018. Reclassification of areas or imposition of more stringent standards may make it more difficult to construct new or modified sources of air pollution in newly designated non-attainment areas. Also, states with counties that are designated as non-attainment are expected to implement more stringent regulations for those non-attainment areas, which could require installation of new emission controls on some of WES's equipment, resulting in longer permitting timelines, and significantly increase WES's capital expenditures and operating costs.. • Reduction of Methane Emissions by the Oil and Gas Industry. In June 2016, the EPA published a final rule establishing new emissions standards for methane and additional standards for volatile organic compounds from certain new, modified, and reconstructed oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing and transmission facilities. The EPA's rule is comprised of New Source Performance Standards, known as Subpart OOOOa, which require certain new, modified, or reconstructed facilities in the oil and natural gas sector to reduce these methane gas and volatile organic compound emissions. These Subpart OOOOa standards will expand previously issued New Source Performance Standards to, among other things, hydraulically fractured oil and natural gas well completions, fugitive emissions from well sites and compressors, and equipment leaks at natural gas processing plants and pneumatic pumps. However, in June 2017, the EPA published a proposed rule to stay certain portions of these Subpart OOOOa standards for two years and revisit the entirety of the 2016 standard, but it has not yet published a final rule and, as a result, the June 2016 standards remain in effect but future implementation of the 2016 standards is uncertain at this time. Furthermore, the Bureau of Land Management (\"BLM\") published a final rule in November 2016 that requires a reduction in methane emissions from venting, flaring and leaking on public lands. However, in December 2017, the BLM published a final rule that temporarily suspends or delays certain requirements contained in the 2016 final rule until January 17, 2019. The suspension of the November 2016 final rule is being challenged by several non-governmental organizations and states. Notwithstanding the current uncertainty of the 2016 rule, WES has taken measures to enter into a voluntary regime, together with certain other oil and natural gas exploration and production operators, to reduce methane emissions. At the state level, some states where WES conducts operations, including Colorado, have issued requirements for the performance of leak detection programs that identify and repair methane leaks at certain oil and natural gas sources. Compliance with these rules or with any future federal or state methane regulations could, among other things, require installation of new emission controls on some of WES's equipment and significantly increase WES's capital expenditures and operating costs.. 65. Table of Contents. • Reduction of GHG Emissions. The U.S. Congress and the EPA, in addition to some state and regional authorities, have in recent years considered legislation or regulations to reduce emissions of GHGs. These efforts have included consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes, GHG reporting and tracking programs, and regulations that directly limit GHG emissions from certain sources. In the absence of federal GHG-limiting legislation, the EPA has determined that GHG emissions present a danger to public health and the environment and has adopted regulations that, among other things, restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act and may require the installation of \"best available control technology\" to limit emissions of GHGs from any new or significantly modified facilities that WES may seek to construct in the future if they would otherwise emit large volumes of GHGs together with other criteria pollutants. Also, certain of WES's operations are subject to EPA rules requiring the monitoring and annual reporting of GHG emissions from specified onshore and offshore production sources. In December 2015, the United States joined the international community at the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France and agreed to review its GHG emissions and set GHG emission reduction goals every five years beginning in 2020. Although this agreement does not create any binding obligations, it does include pledges to voluntarily limit or reduce future emissions. In August 2017, the U.S. State Department informed the United Nations of the intent of the United States to withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020. Notwithstanding any withdrawal from this agreement, the implementation of substantial limitations on GHG emissions in areas where WES conducts operations could adversely affect demand for oil and natural gas.. Derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on WES's ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with its business.. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as WES and Anadarko, that participate in that market. The CFTC has finalized certain of its regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act, but others remain to be finalized or implemented. It is not possible at this time to predict when this will be accomplished or what the terms of the final rules will be, so the impact of those rules is uncertain at this time.. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter and reduce WES's ability to monetize or restructure existing commodity price contracts. If WES reduces the use of commodity price contracts as a result of the legislation and regulations, WES's results of operations may become more volatile and cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect WES's ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures and make cash distributions to unitholders.. WES may incur significant costs and liabilities resulting from pipeline integrity programs and related repairs.. Pursuant to authority under federal law, PHMSA has promulgated regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop and implement integrity management programs for certain gas and hazardous liquid pipelines that, in the event of a pipeline leak or rupture, could affect HCAs, which are areas where a release could have the most significant adverse consequences, including high population areas, certain drinking water sources and unusually sensitive ecological areas. These regulations require the operators of covered pipelines to: (i) perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; (ii) identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact HCAs; (iii) improve data collection, integration and analysis; (iv) repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and (v) implement preventive and mitigating actions. In addition, states have adopted regulations similar to existing PHMSA regulations for certain intrastate gas and hazardous liquid pipelines. At this time, WES cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these regulations, as the cost will vary significantly depending on the number and extent of any repairs or replacements of pipeline segments found to be necessary as a result of the pipeline integrity testing. The results of these tests could cause WES to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or replacements of pipeline segments deemed necessary to ensure the safe and reliable operation of its pipelines. Moreover, the adoption of any new legislation or regulations that impose more stringent or costly pipeline integrity management standards could result in a material adverse effect on WES's results of operations or financial position.. 66. Table of Contents. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to pipeline safety that require the use of new or more stringent safety controls or result in more stringent enforcement of applicable legal requirements could subject WES to increased capital costs, operational delays and costs of operation.. In June 2016, PHMSA's statutory mandate regarding pipeline safety was extended through 2019, and PHMSA was given expanded authority to address unsafe pipeline conditions or practices that pose an imminent hazard to life, property, or the environment. The imposition of new safety requirements or any issuance or reinterpretation of guidance by PHMSA or any state agencies with respect thereto could require WES to install new or modified safety controls, pursue additional capital projects or conduct maintenance programs on an accelerated basis, any or all of which could result in WES incurring increased operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial position. For example, in January 2017, PHMSA issued a final rule that significantly extends and expands the reach of certain PHMSA integrity management requirements, such as, for example, periodic assessments, leak detection and repairs, regardless of the pipeline's proximity to a high consequence area. The final rule also imposes new reporting requirements for certain unregulated pipelines, including all hazardous liquid gathering lines. However, the date of implementation of this final rule by publication in the Federal Register remains uncertain given the January 2017 change in presidential administrations. Additionally, in March 2016, PHMSA announced a proposed rulemaking that would impose new or more stringent requirements for certain natural gas lines and gathering lines including, among other things, expanding certain of PHMSA's current regulatory safety programs for natural gas pipelines in newly defined \"moderate consequence areas\" that contain as few as five dwellings within a potential impact area; requiring natural gas pipelines installed before 1970 and thus excluded from certain pressure testing obligations to be tested to determine their MAOP; and requiring certain onshore and offshore gathering lines in Class I areas to comply with damage prevention, corrosion control, public education, MAOP limits, line markers and emergency planning standards. Additional requirements proposed by this proposed rulemaking would increase PHMSA's integrity management requirements and also require consideration of seismicity in evaluating threats to pipelines. PHMSA has not yet finalized the March 2016 proposed rulemaking.. Additionally, PHMSA and one or more state regulators, including the RRC, have in recent years expanded the scope of their regulatory inspections to include certain in-plant equipment and pipelines found within NGL fractionation facilities and associated storage facilities, to assess compliance with hazardous liquids pipeline safety requirements. To the extent that PHMSA and/or state regulatory agencies are successful in asserting their jurisdiction in this manner, midstream operators of NGL fractionation facilities and associated storage facilities may be required to make operational changes or modifications at their facilities to meet standards beyond current OSHA and EPA requirements, which changes or modifications may result in additional capital costs, possible operational delays and increased costs of operation that, in some instances, may be significant.. Some portions of WES's pipeline systems have been in service for several decades, and WES has a limited ownership history with respect to certain of its assets. There could be unknown events or conditions or increased maintenance or repair expenses and downtime associated with WES's pipelines that could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations.. Some portions of the pipeline systems that WES operates were in service for many decades prior to purchase by WES. Consequently, there may be historical occurrences or latent issues regarding WES's pipeline systems that WES's executive management may be unaware of and that may have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. The age and condition of WES's pipeline systems could also result in increased maintenance or repair expenditures, and any downtime associated with increased maintenance and repair activities could materially reduce WES's revenue. Any significant increase in maintenance and repair expenditures or loss of revenue due to the age or condition of WES's pipeline systems could adversely affect its business and results of operations.. 67. Table of Contents. WES is subject to stringent and comprehensive environmental laws and regulations that may expose WES to significant costs and liabilities.. WES's operations are subject to stringent and comprehensive federal, tribal, state and local environmental laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These environmental laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to WES's operations, including: (i) the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities; (ii) restrictions on the types, quantities and concentrations of materials that can be released into the environment; (iii) limitations on the generation, management and disposal of wastes; (iv) limitations or prohibitions of construction and operating activities in environmentally sensitive areas such as wetlands, urban areas, wilderness regions and other protected areas; (v) requiring capital expenditures to limit or prevent releases of materials from its pipelines and facilities; and (vi) imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from WES's operations or existing at its owned or operated facilities. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly remedial or corrective actions. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits or any newly adopted legal requirements may result in the assessment of sanctions and administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory, remedial or corrective action obligations, the incurrence of capital expenditures, the occurrence of delays in the permitting, development or expansion of projects, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of WES's operations in particular areas.. WES may incur significant environmental costs and liabilities in connection with WES's operations due to WES's handling of natural gas, crude oil, NGLs and other petroleum products, because of air emissions and discharges related to WES's operations, and as a result of historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. For example, an accidental release as a result of WES's operations could subject WES to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by owners of the properties through which WES's gathering or transportation systems pass, neighboring landowners, and other third parties for personal injury, natural resource and property damages, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Joint and several strict liabilities may be incurred, without regard to fault, under certain of these environmental laws and regulations. In addition, stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase WES's operational or compliance costs as well as the costs of any remedial actions that may become necessary, which could have a material adverse effect on WES's results of operations or financial condition. For example, regulatory initiatives targeting the reduction of certain air pollutants, such as ground level ozone or GHGs such as methane, have been proposed and/or adopted by the EPA but are currently subject to various legal impediments. The adoption of these or any other laws, regulations or other legally enforceable mandates could increase WES's oil and natural gas customers' operating and compliance costs as well as reduce the rate of production of oil or natural gas by operators with whom WES has a business relationship, which could have a material adverse effect on WES's results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, the legal requirements related to the disposal of wastewater to non-producing underground formations by means of underground injection wells are subject to change based on concerns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such disposal activities. One such concern relates to recent seismic events near injection wells used for the disposal of produced water resulting from oil and natural gas activities. In response to concerns regarding induced seismicity, regulators in some states have imposed, or are considering imposing, additional requirements in the permitting of produced water disposal wells or otherwise to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. For example, Oklahoma has issued rules for wastewater disposal wells that impose certain permitting and operating restrictions and reporting requirements on disposal wells in proximity to faults and also, from time to time, is developing and implementing plans directing operators of wells injecting at certain depths where seismic incidents have occurred to restrict or suspend disposal well operations. The Texas Railroad Commission has adopted similar permitting, operating, and reporting rules for disposal wells. In addition, class action lawsuits to which WES is not currently a party, have been pursued and additional litigation may arise in the future, in which plaintiffs have or may allege that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. These developments could result in additional regulation and restrictions on the use of injection wells by WES, which could have a material adverse effect on WES's capital expenditures and operating costs, financial condition, and results of operations.. 68. Table of Contents. WES's construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and is subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition.. One of the ways WES intends to grow its business is through the construction of new midstream assets. The construction of additions or modifications to WES's existing systems and the construction of new midstream assets involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties that are beyond WES's control. These uncertainties could also affect downstream assets, which WES does not own or control, but which are critical to certain of WES's growth projects. Delays in the completion of new downstream assets, or the unavailability of existing downstream assets, due to environmental, regulatory or political considerations, could have an adverse impact on the completion or utilization of WES's growth projects. In addition, construction activities could be subject to state, county and local ordinances that restrict the time, place or manner in which those activities may be conducted. Construction projects may also require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, and financing may not be available on economically acceptable terms or at all. If WES undertakes these projects, they may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost, or at all. In addition, WES's revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if WES expands a pipeline, the construction may occur over an extended period of time, yet WES will not receive any material increases in revenues until the project is completed. Moreover, WES could construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which such growth does not materialize. Since WES is not engaged in the exploration for and development of natural gas and oil reserves, WES often does not have access to estimates of potential reserves in an area prior to constructing facilities in that area. To the extent WES relies on estimates of future production in its decision to construct additions to its systems, such estimates may prove to be inaccurate as a result of the numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of future production. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve WES's expected investment return, which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the construction of additions to WES's existing assets may require it to obtain new rights-of-way. WES may be unable to obtain such rights-of-way and may, therefore, be unable to connect new natural gas volumes to its systems or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for WES to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of renewing existing or obtaining new rights-of-way increases, WES's cash flows could be adversely affected.. WES has partial ownership interests in several joint venture legal entities that WES does not operate or control. As a result, among other things, WES may be unable to control the amount of cash it receives or retains from the operation of these entities, and WES could be required to contribute significant cash to fund its share of their operations, which could adversely affect WES's ability to distribute cash to its partners, including us.. WES's inability, or limited ability, to control the operations and/or management of joint venture legal entities in which it has a partial ownership interest may result in WES receiving or retaining less cash than it expects. WES also may be unable, or limited in its ability, to cause any such entity to effect significant transactions such as large expenditures or contractual commitments, the construction or acquisition of assets, or the borrowing of money.. In addition, for the equity investments in which WES has a minority ownership interest, WES is unable to control ongoing operational decisions, including the incurrence of capital expenditures or additional indebtedness that WES may be required to fund. Further, the other owners of WES's equity investments may establish reserves for working capital, capital projects, environmental matters and legal proceedings, that would similarly reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. Any of the above could significantly and adversely impact WES's ability to make cash distributions to its partners, including us.. Further, in connection with the acquisition of its membership interest in Chipeta, WES became party to the Chipeta LLC agreement. Among other things, the Chipeta LLC agreement provides that to the extent available, Chipeta will distribute available cash, as defined in the Chipeta LLC agreement, to its members quarterly in accordance with those members' membership interests. Accordingly, WES is required to distribute a portion of Chipeta's cash balances, which are included in the cash balances in its consolidated balance sheets, to the other Chipeta member.. 69. Table of Contents. WES does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities are located, which could result in disruptions to WES's operations.. WES does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities have been constructed, and WES is, therefore, subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if WES does not have valid rights-of-way or if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate. WES obtains the rights to construct and operate its pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. Any loss of rights with respect to WES's real property, through its inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on WES's business, results of operations, financial position and ability to make cash distributions to its partners, including us.. WES's business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs for which WES is not fully insured, its operations and financial results could be adversely affected.. WES's operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards inherent in gathering, processing, compressing, treating and transporting natural gas, crude oil, NGLs and produced water, including the following:. • damage to pipelines and plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism;. • inadvertent damage from construction, farm and utility equipment;. • leaks or losses of hydrocarbons or produced water as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities;. • fires and explosions (for example, see Items Affecting the Comparability of Financial Results, under Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K for a discussion of the incident at the DBM complex); and. • other hazards that could also result in personal injury, loss of life, pollution, natural resource damages and/or curtailment or suspension of operations.. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental or natural resource damage. These risks may also result in curtailment or suspension of WES's operations. A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which WES operates could have a material adverse effect on its operations. WES is not fully insured against all risks that may occur in its business. In addition, although WES is insured for environmental pollution resulting from environmental accidents that occur on a sudden and accidental basis, WES may not be insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, some of which may result in toxic tort claims. If a significant accident or event occurs for which WES is not fully insured, it could adversely affect WES's operations and financial condition. Furthermore, WES may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount it desires at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of WES's insurance policies may substantially increase. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Additionally, WES may be unable to recover from prior owners of its assets, pursuant to certain indemnification rights, for potential environmental liabilities.. 70. Table of Contents. WES is exposed to the credit risk of third-party customers, and any material non-payment or non-performance by these parties, including with respect to WES's gathering, processing, transportation and disposal agreements, could reduce WES's ability to make distributions to its partners, including us.. On some of its systems, WES relies on third-party customers for substantially all of its revenues related to those assets. The loss of all or even a portion of the contracted volumes of these customers, as a result of competition, creditworthiness, inability to negotiate extensions, replacements of contracts or otherwise, could reduce WES's ability to make cash distributions to its partners, including us. Further, to the extent any of WES's third-party customers is in financial distress or enters bankruptcy proceedings, the related customer contracts may be renegotiated at lower rates or rejected altogether.. The loss of, or difficulty in attracting and retaining, experienced personnel could reduce WES's competitiveness and prospects for future success.. The successful execution of WES's growth strategy and other activities integral to its operations depends, in part, on WES's ability to attract and retain experienced engineering, operating, commercial and other professionals. Competition for such professionals has historically been intense. If WES cannot retain its technical personnel or attract additional experienced technical personnel, WES's ability to compete could be adversely impacted.. WES is required to deduct estimated future maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus, which may result in less cash available for distribution to unitholders than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted.. WES's partnership agreement requires it to deduct estimated, rather than actual, maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus. The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus is subject to review and change by WES's Special Committee of its Board of Directors at least once a year. In years when WES's estimated maintenance capital expenditures are higher than actual maintenance capital expenditures, the amount of cash available for distribution to us will be lower than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted from operating surplus. If WES underestimates the appropriate level of estimated maintenance capital expenditures, it may have less cash available for distribution in future periods when actual capital expenditures begin to exceed its previous estimates. Over time, if WES does not set aside sufficient cash reserves or have sufficient sources of financing available to make the expenditures required to maintain its asset base, WES may be unable to pay distributions at the anticipated level and could be required to reduce its distributions.. 71. Table of Contents. TAX RISKS TO COMMON UNITHOLDERS. Our taxation as a flow-through entity depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. Likewise, WES's taxation as a flow-through entity depends on its status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as WES not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") were to treat WES or us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or if either WES or we were to become subject to material additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on each of us and WES being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Despite the fact that we and WES are organized as limited partnerships under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as us or WES to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless it satisfies a \"qualifying income\" requirement and is not treated as an investment company. Based upon WES's current operations, we believe that we and WES satisfy the qualifying income requirement, and that we and WES are not treated as investment companies. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement, being treated as an investment company, a change in our or WES's business activities, or a change in current law could cause us or WES to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us or WES to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is 21% for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flows and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. If WES were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, it would pay federal, and possibly state, income taxes on its taxable income at the corporate tax rates. Distributions to us would generally be taxable again as corporate distributions, and, in general, no income, gains, losses, deductions, or credits would flow through to us. As a result, there would be a material reduction in our anticipated cash flow and the value of our investment in WES, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Additionally, if we or WES becomes subject to federal income tax, we or WES would also be subject to the income tax provisions of many states. At the state level, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income or franchise taxes, or other forms of taxation. For example, WES is required to pay Texas margin tax on its gross income apportioned to Texas. Imposition of a similar tax on us or WES in other jurisdictions to which WES may expand its operations could substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes or differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. From time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. Although there is no current legislative proposal, a prior legislative proposal would have eliminated the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly traded partnerships as corporations, upon which we and WES rely for our treatment as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. In addition, on January 24, 2017, final regulations regarding which activities give rise to qualifying income within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Code (the \"Final Regulations\") were published in the Federal Register. The Final Regulations are effective as of January 19, 2017, and apply to taxable years beginning on or after January 19, 2017. We do not believe the Final Regulations affect our ability or WES's ability to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. 72. Table of Contents. However, any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any similar or future legislative changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. You are urged to consult with your own tax advisor with respect to the status of regulatory and administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on your investment in our or WES's common units.. If the IRS were to contest the federal income tax positions we or WES take, it may adversely impact the market for our common units or WES's common units, and the costs of any such contest would reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we or WES take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we or WES take, and a court may not agree with some or all of those positions. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. Moreover, the costs of any contest with the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns or WES's income tax returns for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments directly from us or WES, respectively, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced. In addition, our or WES's current and former unitholders may be required to indemnify us or WES for any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments that were paid on such unitholders' behalf.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our or WES's income tax returns, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments directly from us or WES, respectively. To the extent possible under the new rules, our general partner or WES's general partner may elect to either pay the taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly to the IRS or, if we are eligible, issue a revised information statement to each unitholder and former unitholder with respect to an audited and adjusted return. Although our general partner or WES's general partner may elect to have our current or former unitholders or WES's current or former unitholders take such audit adjustment into account and pay any resulting taxes (including applicable penalties or interest) in accordance with their respective interests in us or WES, respectively, during the tax year under audit, there can be no assurance that such election will be practical, permissible or effective in all circumstances. As a result, our or WES's current unitholders may bear some or all of the tax liability resulting from such audit adjustment, even if such unitholders did not own units in us or WES during the tax year under audit. If, as a result of any such audit adjustment, we or WES are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced and our current and former unitholders may be required to indemnify us for any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments that were paid on such unitholders' behalf. These rules are not applicable for tax years beginning on or prior to December 31, 2017.. Our unitholders are required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us.. Our unitholders are required to pay any U.S. federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. For example, if we sell assets and use the proceeds to repay existing debt or fund capital expenditures, unitholders may be allocated taxable income and gain resulting from the sale, and our cash available for distribution would not increase. Similarly, taking advantage of opportunities to reduce our existing debt, such as debt exchanges, debt repurchases, or modifications of our existing debt could result in \"cancellation of indebtedness income\" being allocated to our unitholders as taxable income without any increase in our cash available for distribution. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income.. 73. Table of Contents. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.. If a unitholder sells common units, the unitholder will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and that unitholder's tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of a unitholder's allocable share of our net taxable income result in a decrease in that unitholder's tax basis in its common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units sold will, in effect, become taxable income to that unitholder, if that unitholder sells such units at a price greater than that unitholder's tax basis in those units, even if the price received is less than their original cost. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if they sell their units, unitholders may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale.. A substantial portion of the amount realized from a unitholder's sale of units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income to the unitholder due to potential recapture of items, including depreciation recapture. Thus, a unitholder may recognize both ordinary income and capital loss from the sale of units if the amount realized on the sale is less than the unitholder's adjusted basis in the units. Net capital loss may only offset capital gains and, in the case of individuals, up to $3,000 of ordinary income per year. In the taxable period in which a unitholder sells units, the unitholder may recognize ordinary income from our allocations of income and gain prior to the sale and from recapture items, which generally cannot be offset by any capital loss recognized upon the sale of units.. Tax-exempt entities face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in our or WES's common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (or \"IRAs\") raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Further, with respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, a tax-exempt entity with more than one unrelated trade or business (including by attribution from investment in a partnership such as ours or WES's that is engaged in one or more unrelated trades or businesses) is required to compute the unrelated business taxable income of such tax-exempt entity separately with respect to each such trade or business (including for purposes of determining any net operating loss deduction). As a result, for years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may not be possible for tax-exempt entities to utilize losses from an investment in us or WES to offset unrelated business taxable income from another unrelated trade or business and vice versa. Tax-exempt entities should consult a tax advisor before investing in our or WES's common units.. Non-U.S. unitholders will be subject to U.S. taxes and withholding with respect to their income and gain from owning our or WES's units.. Non-U.S. unitholders are generally taxed and subject to income tax filing requirements by the United States on income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business (\"effectively connected income\"). Income allocated to our or WES's unitholders and any gain from the sale of our or WES's units will generally be considered to be \"effectively connected\" with a U.S. trade or business. As a result, distributions to a non-U.S. unitholder are subject to withholding at the highest applicable effective tax rate and a non-U.S. unitholder who sells or otherwise disposes of a unit is also subject to U.S. federal income tax on the gain realized from the sale or disposition of that unit.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, enacted on December 22, 2017, and applicable to years beginning after December 31, 2017, imposes a withholding obligation of 10% of the amount realized upon a non-U.S. unitholder's sale or exchange of an interest in a partnership that is engaged in a U.S. trade or business. However, due to challenges of administering a withholding obligation applicable to open market trading and other complications, the IRS has temporarily suspended the application of this withholding rule to open market transfers of interests in publicly traded partnerships pending promulgation of regulations or other guidance that resolves the challenges. It is not clear if or when such regulations or other guidance will be issued. Non-U.S. unitholders should consult a tax advisor before investing in our or WES's common units.. 74. Table of Contents. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the common units actually purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we have adopted certain methods of allocating depreciation and amortization deductions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to the use of these methods could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from any sale of common units and could negatively impact the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to unitholders' tax returns.. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We and WES generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month (the \"Allocation Date\"), instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. Similarly, we and WES generally allocate certain deductions for depreciation of capital additions, gain or loss realized on a sale or other disposition of our assets and, in the discretion of the general partner, any other extraordinary item of income, gain, loss or deduction based upon ownership on the Allocation Date. Treasury Regulations allow a similar monthly simplifying convention, but such regulations do not specifically authorize all aspects of our proration method. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. A unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of common units) may be considered to have disposed of those common units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because there are no specific rules governing the federal income tax consequences of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered to have disposed of the loaned units. In that case, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a securities loan are urged to consult a tax advisor to determine whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their common units.. We and WES have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining a unitholder's allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. The IRS may challenge these methodologies or the resulting allocations, which could adversely affect the value of WES's common units and our common units.. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our and WES's unitholders, we and WES must routinely determine the fair market value of our respective assets. Although we or WES may, from time to time, consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we and WES make many fair market value estimates using a methodology based on the market value of our respective common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our respective assets. The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the timing or amount of taxable income or loss allocated to our or WES's unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain on the sale of common units by our unitholders or WES's unitholders and could negatively impact the value of our common units or WES's common units, or result in audit adjustments to our respective unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. 75. Table of Contents. Our unitholders are subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units.. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, our unitholders are subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we or WES conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. As we or WES make acquisitions or expand our business, we or WES may own assets or conduct business in additional states or foreign jurisdictions that impose a personal income tax. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all U.S. federal, foreign, state and local tax returns."
