[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Cyclicality in the petrochemical industry has in the past, and may in the future, result in reduced operating margins or operating losses.. Our historical operating results reflect the cyclical and volatile nature of the petrochemical industry. The industry is mature and capital intensive. Margins in this industry are sensitive to supply and demand balances both domestically and internationally, which historically have been cyclical. The cycles are generally characterized by periods of tight supply, leading to high operating rates and margins, followed by periods of oversupply primarily resulting from excess new capacity additions, leading to reduced operating rates and lower margins.. Moreover, profitability in the petrochemical industry is affected by the worldwide level of demand along with vigorous price competition which may intensify due to, among other things, new industry capacity. In general, weak economic conditions either in the United States, Europe or the rest of the world tend to reduce demand and put pressure on margins. It is not possible to predict accurately the supply and demand balances, market conditions and other factors that will affect industry operating margins in the future.. New olefins capacity additions in Asia, the Middle East and North America, a number of which have been announced in recent years, may lead to periods of over-supply and lower profitability. As a result, our Olefins segment operating margins may be negatively impacted.. Continued slow recovery in the U.S. construction markets and budgetary constraints in municipal spending have contributed to lower North American demand for our vinyls products. Likewise, European industry production capacities currently exceed demand in the region, largely due to the weak economic environment in Europe. Looking forward, our Vinyls segment operating rates and margins may continue to be negatively impacted by the slow recovery of the U.S. construction markets and the European economy.. We sell commodity products in highly competitive markets and face significant competition and price pressure.. We sell our products in highly competitive markets. Due to the commodity nature of many of our products, competition in these markets is based primarily on price and to a lesser extent on performance, product quality, product deliverability and customer service. As a result, we generally are not able to protect our market position for these products by product differentiation and may not be able to pass on cost increases to our customers. Accordingly, increases in raw material and other costs may not necessarily correlate with changes in prices for these products, either in the direction of the price change or in magnitude. Specifically, timing differences in pricing between raw material prices, which may change daily, and contract product prices, which in many cases are negotiated monthly or less often, sometimes with an additional lag in effective dates for increases, have had and may continue to have a negative effect on profitability. Significant volatility in raw material costs tends to place pressure on product margins as sales price increases could lag behind raw material cost increases. Conversely, when raw material costs decrease, customers could seek relief in the form of lower sales prices.. 8. Table of Contents. Volatility in costs of raw materials and energy may result in increased operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. Significant variations in the costs and availability of raw materials and energy may negatively affect our results of operations. These costs have risen significantly in the past due primarily to oil and natural gas cost increases. We purchase significant amounts of ethane feedstock, natural gas, ethylene and salt to produce several basic chemicals. We also purchase significant amounts of electricity to supply the energy required in our production processes. The cost of these raw materials and energy, in the aggregate, represents a substantial portion of our operating expenses. The prices of raw materials and energy generally follow price trends of, and vary with market conditions for, crude oil and natural gas, which are highly volatile and cyclical. Changes to regulatory policies applicable to the German energy sector for industrial users have contributed to higher prices for industrial users of energy in the future. Our results of operations have been and could in the future be significantly affected by increases in these costs.. Price increases increase our working capital needs and, accordingly, can adversely affect our liquidity and cash flows. In addition, because we utilize the first-in, first-out (\"FIFO\") method of inventory accounting, during periods of falling raw material prices and declining sales prices, our results of operations for a particular reporting period could be negatively impacted as the lower sales prices would be reflected in operating income more quickly than the corresponding drop in feedstock costs. We use derivative instruments in an attempt to reduce price volatility risk on some feedstock commodities. In the future, we may decide not to hedge any of our raw material costs or any hedges we enter into may not have successful results. Also, our hedging activities involve credit risk associated with our hedging counterparties, and a deterioration in the financial markets could adversely affect our hedging counterparties and their abilities to fulfill their obligations to us.. Lower prices of crude oil, such as those experienced since the third quarter of 2014 and continuing through 2017 (as of December 31, 2017, approximately 44% lower than their 2014 peak levels), have led to a reduction in the cost advantage for natural gas liquids-based ethylene crackers in North America, such as ours, as compared to naphtha-based ethylene crackers that use crude oil derivatives. As a result, our margins and cash flows have been and may continue to be negatively impacted. This impact could be magnified to the extent crude oil prices drop even further and depending on how long prices remain at these levels. Lower crude oil and natural gas prices could lead to a reduction in hydraulic fracturing in the United States, which could reduce the availability of feedstock and increase prices of feedstock for our operations. Higher natural gas prices could also adversely affect our ability to export products that we produce in the United States outside of the United States. In addition to the impact that this has on our exports from the United States, reduced competitiveness of U.S. producers also has in the past increased the availability of chemicals in North America, as U.S. production that would otherwise have been sold overseas was instead offered for sale domestically, resulting in excess supply and lower prices in North America. We could also face the threat of imported products from countries that have a cost advantage. Additionally, the export of natural gas liquids from the United States or greater restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could restrict the availability of our raw materials in the United States, thereby increasing our costs.. External factors beyond our control can cause fluctuations in demand for our products and in our prices and margins, which may negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows.. External factors beyond our control can cause volatility in raw material prices, demand for our products, product prices and volumes and deterioration in operating margins. These factors can also magnify the impact of economic cycles on our business and results of operations. Examples of external factors include:. • general economic conditions, including in the United States, Europe and Asia;. • new capacity additions in North America, Europe, Asia and the Middle East;. • the level of business activity in the industries that use our products;. • competitor action;. • technological innovations;. • currency fluctuations;. • increases in interest rates;. • international events and circumstances;. • war, sabotage, terrorism and civil unrest;. • governmental regulation, including in the United States, Europe and Asia;. • severe weather and natural disasters; and. • credit worthiness of customers and vendors.. 9. Table of Contents. A number of our products are highly dependent on durable goods markets, such as housing and construction, which are themselves particularly cyclical. The significant weakness in the U.S. residential housing market since 2006 and economic weakness in Europe had an adverse effect on demand and margins for our products. If the global economy worsens in general, or the U.S. residential housing market or the European economy worsens in particular, demand for our products and our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.. We may reduce production at or idle a facility for an extended period of time or exit a business because of high raw material prices, an oversupply of a particular product and/or a lack of demand for that particular product, which makes production uneconomical. Temporary outages sometimes last for several quarters or, in certain cases, longer and cause us to incur costs, including the expenses of maintaining and restarting these facilities. Factors such as increases in raw material costs or lower demand in the future may cause us to further reduce operating rates, idle facilities or exit uncompetitive businesses.. Hostilities in the Middle East, the Commonwealth of Independent States (including Ukraine) or elsewhere or the occurrence, or threat of occurrence, of terrorist attacks could adversely affect the economies of the United States, Europe and other developed countries. A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in demand for our products, which could adversely affect our net sales and margins and limit our future growth prospects. Volatility in prices for crude oil and natural gas could also result in increased feedstock costs. Furthermore, sustained lower prices of crude oil, such as the prices experienced since the third quarter of 2014 and continuing through 2017, have led and may continue to lead to lower margins in the United States. In addition, these risks could cause increased instability in the financial and insurance markets and could adversely affect our ability to access capital and to obtain insurance coverage that we consider adequate or is otherwise required by our contracts with third parties.. We operate internationally and are subject to related risks, including exchange rate fluctuations, exchange controls, political risk and other risks relating to international operations.. We operate internationally and are subject to the risks of doing business on a global basis. These risks include, but are not limited to, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, currency devaluations, imposition of trade barriers (which could, among other things, negatively impact our ability to export our products outside of the U.S.), imposition of tariffs and duties, restrictions on the transfer of funds, changes in law and regulatory requirements, involvement in judicial proceedings in unfavorable jurisdictions, economic instability and disruptions, political unrest and epidemics. If the U.S. administration makes certain changes to its foreign trade policies, such changes could lead to imposition of additional trade barriers and tariffs on us in foreign jurisdictions. Our operating results could be negatively affected by any of these risks.. A deterioration in global economic conditions may have a negative impact on our business and financial condition.. A deterioration in global economic conditions may have a negative impact on our business and our financial condition. Our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access such markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. In addition, the availability of additional financing at cost effective interest rates cannot be assured. A deterioration in global economic conditions could have an impact on the lenders under our revolving credit facility or on our customers and suppliers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. Additionally, a deterioration in global economic conditions could result in reduced demand for our products, which would have a negative impact on our revenues and profits.. Our inability to compete successfully may reduce our operating profits.. The petrochemical industry is highly competitive. Historically, there have been a number of mergers, acquisitions, spin-offs and joint ventures in the industry. This restructuring activity has resulted in fewer but more competitive producers, many of which are larger than we are and have greater financial resources than we do. Among our competitors are some of the world's largest chemical companies and chemical industry joint ventures. Competition within the petrochemical industry and in the manufacturing of building products is affected by a variety of factors, including:. • product price;. • balance of product supply/demand;. • material, technology and process innovation;. • technical support and customer service;. • quality;. • reliability of raw material and utility supply;. • availability of potential substitute materials; and. • product performance.. 10. Table of Contents. Changes in the competitive environment could have a material adverse effect on our business and our operations. These changes could include:. • the emergence of new domestic and international competitors;. • the rate of capacity additions by competitors;. • changes in customer base due to mergers;. • the intensification of price competition in our markets;. • the introduction of new or substitute products by competitors; and. • the technological innovations of competitors.. Our production facilities process some volatile and hazardous materials that subject us to operating risks that could adversely affect our operating results.. We have chemical manufacturing sites in the United States, Europe and Asia. Our operations are subject to the usual hazards associated with chemical and plastics manufacturing and the related use, storage, transportation and disposal of feedstocks, products and wastes, including:. • pipeline leaks and ruptures;. • explosions;. • fires;. • severe weather and natural disasters;. • mechanical failure;. • unscheduled downtime;. • labor difficulties;. • transportation interruptions;. • transportation accidents involving our chemical products;. • remediation complications;. • chemical spills;. • discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases;. • storage tank leaks;. • other environmental risks;. • sabotage;. • terrorist attacks; and. • political unrest.. According to some experts, global climate change could result in heightened hurricane activity in the Gulf of Mexico and other weather and natural disaster hazards worldwide. If this materializes, severe weather and natural disaster hazards could pose an even greater risk for our facilities, particularly those in Louisiana.. All these hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, catastrophic damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and may result in a suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. We could become subject to environmental claims brought by governmental entities or third parties. A loss or shutdown over an extended period of operations at any one of our chemical manufacturing facilities would have a material adverse effect on us. We maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance that we believe is in accordance with customary industry practices, but we cannot be fully insured against all potential hazards incident to our business, including losses resulting from war risks or terrorist acts. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. 11. Table of Contents. We are exposed to significant losses from products liability, personal injury and other claims relating to the products we manufacture. Additionally, individuals currently seek, and likely will continue to seek, damages for alleged personal injury or property damage due to alleged exposure to chemicals at our facilities or to chemicals otherwise owned, controlled or manufactured by us. We are also subject to present and future claims with respect to workplace exposure, workers' compensation and other matters. Any such claims, whether with or without merit, could be time consuming, expensive to defend and could divert management's attention and resources. We maintain and expect to continue to maintain insurance for products liability, workplace exposure, workers' compensation and other claims, but the amount and scope of such insurance may not be adequate or available to cover a claim that is successfully asserted against us. In addition, such insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The results of any future litigation or claims are inherently unpredictable, but such outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We rely on a limited number of outside suppliers for specified feedstocks and services.. We obtain a significant portion of our raw materials from a few key suppliers. If any of these suppliers is unable to meet its obligations under any present or future supply agreements, we may be forced to pay higher prices to obtain the necessary raw materials. Any interruption of supply or any price increase of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. A vendor may choose, subject to existing contracts, to modify its relationship due to general economic concerns or concerns relating to the vendor or us, at any time. Any significant change in the terms that we have with our key suppliers, or any significant additional requirements from our suppliers that we provide them additional security in the form of prepayments or with letters of credits, could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We rely heavily on third party transportation, which subjects us to risks and costs that we cannot control. Such risks and costs may materially adversely affect our operations.. We rely heavily on railroads, barges, trucks and other shipping companies to transport raw materials to the manufacturing facilities used by our businesses and to ship finished products to customers. These transport operations are subject to various hazards and risks, including extreme weather conditions, work stoppages and operating hazards (including pipeline leaks and ruptures and storage tank leaks), as well as interstate transportation regulations. In addition, the methods of transportation we utilize, including shipping chlorine and other chemicals by railroad, may be subject to additional, more stringent and more costly regulations in the future. If we are delayed or unable to ship finished products or unable to obtain raw materials as a result of any such new regulations or public policy changes related to transportation safety, or these transportation companies fail to operate properly, or if there were significant changes in the cost of these services due to new or additional regulations, or otherwise, we may not be able to arrange efficient alternatives and timely means to obtain raw materials or ship goods, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We may pursue acquisitions, dispositions and joint ventures and/or other transactions that may impact our results of operations and financial condition.. We seek opportunities to maximize efficiency and create stockholder value through various transactions. These transactions may include various domestic and international business combinations, purchases or sales of assets or contractual arrangements or joint ventures that are intended to result in the realization of synergies, the creation of efficiencies or the generation of cash to reduce debt. In this regard, we regularly consider acquisition opportunities that would be consistent or complementary to our existing business strategies. To the extent permitted under our credit facility, the indenture governing our senior notes and other debt agreements, some of these transactions may be financed by additional borrowings by us. Although we would pursue these transactions because we expect them to yield longer-term benefits if the efficiencies and synergies we expect are realized, they could adversely affect our results of operations in the short term because of the costs associated with such transactions and because they may divert management's attention from existing business operations. Other transactions may advance future cash flows from some of our businesses, thereby yielding increased short-term liquidity, but consequently resulting in lower cash flows from these operations over the longer term. These transactions may not yield the business benefits, synergies or financial benefits anticipated by management. Integration of other acquired operations can lead to restructuring charges or other costs. We may have difficulties integrating the operations of other acquired businesses.. 12. Table of Contents. Our operations and assets are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations.. We use large quantities of hazardous substances and generate large quantities of hazardous wastes and emissions in our manufacturing operations. Due to the large quantities of hazardous substances and wastes, our industry is highly regulated and monitored by various environmental regulatory authorities such as the EPA and the European Union, which promulgates the Industrial Emission Directive (\"IED\"). As such, we are subject to extensive international, national, state and local laws, regulations and directives pertaining to pollution and protection of the environment, health and safety, which govern, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges onto land or waters, the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace, the remediation of contaminated sites, and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials. Some of these laws, regulations and directives are subject to varying and conflicting interpretations. Many of these laws, regulations and directives provide for substantial fines and potential criminal sanctions for violations and require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions or reduce the likelihood or impact of hazardous substance releases, whether permitted or not. For example, all of our petrochemical facilities in the United States and Europe may require improvements to comply with certain changes in process safety management requirements.. New laws, rules and regulations as well as changes to laws, rules and regulations may also affect us. For example, on April 17, 2012, the EPA promulgated maximum achievable control technology (\"MACT\") standards for major sources and generally available control technology (\"GACT\") standards for area sources of PVC production. The rule sets emission limits and work practice standards for total organic air toxics and for three specific air toxics: vinyl chloride, chlorinated di-benzo dioxins and furans (\"CD/DF\"), and hydrogen chloride and includes requirements to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the emission standards. Similarly, the Toxic Substances Control Act (\"TSCA\") imposes reporting, record-keeping and testing requirements, and restrictions relating to the production, handling, and use of chemical substances. The TSCA reform legislation enacted in June 2016 expanded the EPA's authority to review and regulate new and existing chemicals. In June 2017, the EPA issued three rules that implement the TSCA reform legislation. One rule establishes the EPA's process and criteria for identifying high priority chemicals for risk evaluation. Another rule sets the EPA's approach for determining whether these high priority chemicals present an unreasonable risk to health or the environment.  These two rules are currently the subject of legal challenges by environmental groups. The third rule requires industry reporting of chemicals manufactured or processed in the United States over the past 10 years. These rules or future new, amended or proposed laws or rules may result in an increase in regulations, which could increase our costs or reduce our production, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. In addition, we cannot accurately predict future developments, such as increasingly strict environmental and safety laws or regulations, and inspection and enforcement policies, as well as resulting higher compliance costs, which might affect the handling, manufacture, use, emission, disposal or remediation of products, other materials or hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and we cannot predict with certainty the extent of our future liabilities and costs under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These liabilities and costs may be material.. In March 2011, the EPA proposed amendments to the emission standards for hazardous air pollutants for mercury emissions from mercury cell chlor-alkali plants. These proposed amendments would require improvements in work practices to reduce fugitive mercury emissions. We operate a mercury cell production unit at our Natrium facility. We cannot predict the timing or content of the final regulation, or its ultimate cost to, or impact on us.. Our operations produce greenhouse gas (\"GHG\") emissions, which have been the subject of increased scrutiny and regulation. In December 2015, the United States joined the international community at the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France. The resulting Paris Agreement calls for the parties to undertake \"ambitious efforts\" to limit the average global temperature and to conserve and enhance sinks and reservoirs of greenhouse gases. The United States signed the Paris Agreement in April 2016, and the Paris Agreement went into effect in November 2016.  However, in June 2017, the Trump Administration announced that the United States intends to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the Paris Agreement, the earliest date the United States can effectively withdraw is November 2020.  The United States' adherence to the exit process and/or the terms on which the United States may reenter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time. Legislation to regulate GHG emissions has also been introduced in the United States Congress, and there has been a wide-ranging policy debate regarding the impact of these gases and possible means for their regulation. Some of the proposals would require industries to meet stringent new standards that would require substantial reductions in carbon emissions. Those reductions could be costly and difficult to implement.. 13. Table of Contents. Various jurisdictions have considered or adopted laws and regulations on GHG emissions, with the general aim of reducing such emissions. The EPA currently requires certain industrial facilities to report their GHG emissions, and to obtain permits with stringent control requirements before constructing or modifying new facilities with significant GHG emissions. In the European Union, the Emissions Trading Scheme obligates certain emitters to obtain GHG emission allowances to comply with a cap and trade system for GHG emissions. In addition, the European Union has committed to reduce domestic GHG emissions by at least 40% below the 1990 level by 2030. As our chemical manufacturing processes result in GHG emissions, these and other GHG laws and regulations could affect our costs of doing business.. Under the IED, European Union member state governments are expected to adopt rules and implement environmental permitting programs relating to air, water and waste for industrial facilities. In this context, concepts such as the \"best available technique\" are being explored. Future implementation of these concepts may result in technical modifications in our European facilities. In addition, under the Environmental Liability Directive, European Union member states can require the remediation of soil and groundwater contamination in certain circumstances, under the \"polluter pays principle.\" We are unable to predict the impact these requirements and concepts may have on our future costs of compliance.. We also may face liability for alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances at our facilities or to chemicals that we otherwise manufacture, handle or own. Although these types of claims have not historically had a material impact on our operations, a significant increase in the success of these types of claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows.. Environmental laws may have a significant effect on the nature and scope of, and responsibility for, cleanup of contamination at our current and former operating facilities, the costs of transportation and storage of raw materials and finished products, the costs of reducing emissions and the costs of the storage and disposal of wastewater. The U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (\"CERCLA\"), similar state laws and certain European directives impose joint and several liability for the costs of remedial investigations and actions on the entities that generated waste, arranged for disposal of the wastes, transported to or selected the disposal sites and the past and present owners and operators of such sites. All such potentially responsible parties (or any one of them, including us) may be required to bear all of such costs regardless of fault, legality of the original disposal or ownership of the disposal site. In addition, CERCLA, similar state laws and certain European directives could impose liability for damages to natural resources caused by contamination.. Although we seek to take preventive action, our operations are inherently subject to accidental spills, discharges or other releases of hazardous substances that may make us liable to governmental entities or private parties. This may involve contamination associated with our current and former facilities, facilities to which we sent wastes or by-products for treatment or disposal and other contamination. Accidental discharges may occur in the future, future action may be taken in connection with past discharges, governmental agencies may assess damages or penalties against us in connection with any past or future contamination, or third parties may assert claims against us for damages allegedly arising out of any past or future contamination. In addition, we may be liable for existing contamination related to certain of our facilities for which, in some cases, we believe third parties are liable in the event such third parties fail to perform their obligations.. Capital projects are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. We have capital expansion plans for our facilities. Expansion projects may be subject to delays or cost overruns, including delays or cost overruns resulting from any one or more of the following:. • unexpectedly long delivery times for, or shortages of, key equipment, parts or materials;. • shortages of skilled labor and other personnel necessary to perform the work;. • delays and performance issues;. • failures or delays of third-party equipment vendors or service providers;. • unforeseen increases in the cost of equipment, labor and raw materials;. • work stoppages and other labor disputes;. • unanticipated actual or purported change orders;. • disputes with contractors and suppliers;. • design and engineering problems;. • latent damages or deterioration to equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions;. • financial or other difficulties of our contractors and suppliers;. 14. Table of Contents. • sabotage;. • terrorist attacks;. • interference from adverse weather conditions; and. • difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or in meeting permit conditions.. Significant cost overruns or delays could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, actual capital expenditures could materially exceed our planned capital expenditures.. Our level of debt could adversely affect our ability to operate our business.. As of December 31, 2017, our indebtedness, including the current portion, totaled $3.8 billion, and our debt represented approximately 42% of our total capitalization. Our annual interest expense for 2017 was $159 million, net of interest capitalized of $4 million. Our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our existing or future debt agreements could have significant consequences on our business and future prospects, including the following:. • a portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our debt and will not be available for other purposes;. • we may not be able to obtain necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes;. • our less leveraged competitors could have a competitive advantage because they have greater flexibility to utilize their cash flows to improve their operations;. • we may be exposed to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because some of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which would result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates;. • we could be vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business that would leave us less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities and to react to changes in our business and in market or industry conditions; and. • should we pursue additional expansions of existing assets or acquisition of third party assets, we may not be able to obtain additional liquidity at cost effective interest rates.. These factors could be magnified or accelerated to the extent we were to finance future acquisitions with significant amounts of debt.. To service our indebtedness and fund our capital requirements, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and pay cash dividends will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, including any distributions that we may receive from Westlake Partners. This is subject to general economic, financial, currency, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations, we may not receive sufficient distributions from Westlake Partners, and currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements may not be realized on schedule. We also generate revenues denominated in currencies other than that of our indebtedness and may have difficulty converting those revenues into the currency of our indebtedness. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. In addition, we may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our credit facility and our senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. All of these factors could be magnified if we were to finance any future acquisitions with significant amounts of debt.. The Credit Agreement and the indenture governing certain of our senior notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some actions.. The Credit Agreement and the indenture governing certain of our senior notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to:. • pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock;. • make investments and other restricted payments;. • incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock;. • create liens;. • permit dividend or other payment restrictions on our restricted subsidiaries;. 15. Table of Contents. • sell all or substantially all of our assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies;. • engage in transactions with affiliates; and. • engage in sale-leaseback transactions.. These limitations are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions. However, the effectiveness of many of these restrictions in the indenture governing certain of our senior notes is currently suspended under the indenture because those notes are currently rated investment grade by at least two nationally recognized credit rating agencies. The Credit Agreement also requires us to maintain a quarterly total leverage ratio.. These covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance future business opportunities or acquisitions. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related debt. If a default occurred, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the debt, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. In addition, any acceleration of debt under the Credit Agreement will constitute a default under some of our other debt, including the indentures governing our senior notes.. Our participation in joint ventures and similar arrangements exposes us to a number of risks, including risks of shared control.. We are party to several joint ventures and similar arrangements, including an investment, together with Lotte Chemical USA Corporation (\"Lotte\"), in a joint venture to build an ethylene facility, LACC, LLC (\"LACC\"). Our participation in joint ventures and similar arrangements, by their nature, requires us to share control with unaffiliated third parties. In particular, with respect to our investment in LACC, we are a 10% holder and, therefore, our partner Lotte will have primary control over operations, including management of the contractors responsible for constructing the ethylene facility. If there are differences in views among joint venture participants in how to operate a joint venture that result in delayed decisions or the failure to make decisions, or our joint venture partners do not fulfill their obligations, the affected joint venture may not be able to operate according to its business plan and fulfill its obligations. In that case, we may be required to write down the value of our investment in a joint venture, increase the level of financial or other commitments to the joint venture or, if we have contractual agreements with the joint venture, our operations may be materially adversely affected. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. LACC may incur additional costs or delays in the construction of the LACC ethylene facility.. We have a commitment to contribute up to $225 million toward the construction of the LACC ethylene facility, which equates to approximately 10% of the equity in LACC. If there are cost overruns, our investment could be diluted below 10% if we do not make additional contributions to maintain our ownership position. The construction of the LACC ethylene facility without delays or significant cost overruns is subject to substantial risks, including:. • shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor;. • labor costs and productivity;. • work stoppages;. • contractor or supplier delay or non-performance under construction or other agreements or non-performance by other major participants in construction projects;. • delays in or failure to receive necessary permits, approvals, tax credits, and other regulatory authorizations;. • delays associated with start-up activities, including major equipment failure, system integration, and operations, and/or unforeseen engineering problems;. • changes in project design or scope;. • impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations;. • the outcome of legal challenges to projects, including legal challenges to regulatory approvals;. • failure to construct in accordance with licensing requirements;. • continued public and policymaker support for such projects;. • adverse weather conditions or natural disasters;. • sabotage;. • terrorist attacks;. • environmental and geological conditions;. 16. Table of Contents. • delays or increased costs to interconnect facilities; and. • other unanticipated cost increases.. Regulations concerning the transportation of hazardous chemicals and the security of chemical manufacturing facilities could result in higher operating costs.. Targets such as chemical manufacturing facilities may be at greater risk of terrorist attacks than other targets. As a result, the chemical industry responded to the issues surrounding the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 by implementing initiatives relating to the security of chemicals industry facilities and the transportation of hazardous chemicals. Simultaneously, local, state, national and international governments put into effect a regulatory process that led to new regulations impacting the security of chemical plant locations and the transportation of hazardous chemicals. Our business or our customers' businesses could be adversely affected because of the cost of complying with these regulations.. A change in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation or application, could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations.. We are subject to changes in applicable tax laws, treaties or regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. A material change in these tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation or application, could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations.. We may have difficulties integrating the operations of future acquired businesses.. If we are unable to integrate or to successfully manage businesses that we may acquire in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to realize the operating efficiencies, synergies, cost savings or other benefits expected from the acquisitions for a number of reasons, including the following:. • we may fail to integrate the businesses we acquire into a cohesive, efficient enterprise;. • our resources, including management resources, are limited and may be strained if we engage in a large acquisition or significant number of acquisitions, and acquisitions may divert our management's attention from initiating or carrying out programs to save costs or enhance revenues; and. • our failure to retain key employees and contracts of the businesses we acquire.. Future acquisitions could lead to significant restructuring or other changes.. Regulations related to \"conflict minerals\" could adversely impact our business.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (\"Dodd-Frank Act\") contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (collectively, the \"Covered Countries\"). The term \"conflict minerals\" encompasses tantalum, tin, tungsten (and their ores) and gold.. In August 2012, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC adopted new annual disclosure and reporting requirements applicable to any company that files periodic public reports with the SEC, if any conflicts minerals are necessary to the functionality or production of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by that company. These new annual reporting requirements require companies to describe reasonable country of origin inquiries, due diligence measures and the results of those activities and related determinations.. Because we have a highly complex, multi-layered supply chain, we may incur significant costs to comply with these requirements. In addition, the implementation of procedures to comply with these requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials, including components, used in our products. Our suppliers (or suppliers to our suppliers) may not be able or willing to provide all requested information or to take other steps necessary to ensure that no conflict minerals financing or benefiting armed groups are included in materials or components supplied to us for our manufacturing purposes. Also, we may encounter challenges to satisfy customers that may require all of the components of products purchased by them to be certified as conflict free. If we are not able to meet customer certification requirements, customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier. In addition, since the applicability of the new conflict minerals requirements is limited to companies that file periodic reports with the SEC, not all of our competitors will need to comply with these requirements unless they are imposed by customers. As a result, those competitors may have cost and other advantages over us.. 17. Table of Contents. Our operations could be adversely affected by labor relations.. The vast majority of our employees in Europe, and some of our employees in North America, are represented by labor unions and works councils. Our operations may be adversely affected by strikes, work stoppages and other labor disputes.. We have certain material pension and other postretirement employment benefit (\"OPEB\") obligations. Future funding obligations related to these obligations could restrict cash available for our operations, capital expenditures or other requirements or require us to borrow additional funds.. We have certain non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans covering current and former employees associated with our European operations that we have not funded and are not obligated to fund under applicable law. In addition, we assumed certain U.S. and non-U.S. tax-qualified and non-tax-qualified pension obligations, as well as OPEB obligations, in connection with the Merger. The non-tax-qualified pension liabilities and OPEB obligations to provide retiree health benefits assumed as a result of the Merger are unfunded. As of December 31, 2017, the projected benefit obligation for our pension and OPEB plans were approximately $949 million and $76 million, respectively. The fair value of pension investment assets was $668 million as of December 31, 2017. The total underfunded status of the pension obligations calculated on a projected benefit obligation basis as of December 31, 2017 was approximately $281 million, including the Westlake Salaried Plan, which was underfunded by approximately $120 million on an individual plan basis.. The unfunded OPEB obligations as of December 31, 2017 were approximately $76 million. We will require future operating cash flows to fund our pension and OPEB obligations, which could restrict available cash for our operations, capital expenditures and other requirements. We may also not generate sufficient cash to satisfy these obligations, which could require us to seek funding from other sources, including through additional borrowings, which could materially increase our outstanding debt or debt service requirements.. If our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets or other intangible assets become impaired in the future, we may be required to record non-cash charges to earnings, which could be significant.. Under GAAP, we review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Other intangible assets are reviewed if events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. The process of impairment testing for our goodwill and intangible assets involves a number of judgments and estimates made by management including the fair values of assets and liabilities, future cash flows, our interpretation of current economic indicators and market conditions, overall economic conditions and our strategic operational plans with regards to our business units. If the judgments and estimates used in our analysis are not realized or change due to external factors, then actual results may not be consistent with these judgments and estimates, and our goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired in future periods. If our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets or other intangible assets are determined to be impaired in the future, we may be required to record non-cash charges to earnings during the period in which the impairment is determined, which could be significant and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The trading price of our common stock may negatively impact us.. Volatility in the capital and credit markets may cause downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability. A decline in the market value of our common stock could make it more difficult for us to raise any equity capital.. The conversion of Axiall's Enterprise Resource Planning (\"ERP\") information systems to Westlake's ERP information systems may negatively impact our operations.. We are highly dependent on our information systems infrastructure in order to process orders, track inventory, ship products in a timely manner, prepare invoices to our customers, maintain regulatory compliance and otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. Because Axiall had its own ERP information systems, we currently operate on multiple ERP information systems, which complicates our processing, reporting and analysis of business transactions and other information. Since we must process and reconcile our information from multiple systems, the chance of errors is increased, and we may incur significant additional costs related thereto. Inconsistencies in the information from multiple ERP systems could adversely impact our ability to manage our business efficiently and may result in heightened risk to our ability to maintain our books and records and comply with regulatory requirements. We expect to transition the Axiall systems to Westlake's ERP systems. The transition involves numerous risks, including:. • diversion of management's attention away from normal daily business operations;. • delays and cost overruns;. • loss of or delays in accessing data;. 18. Table of Contents. • increased demand on our operations support personnel;. • initial dependence on unfamiliar systems while training personnel to use new systems; and. • increased operating expenses resulting from training, conversion and transition support activities.. Any of the foregoing could result in a material increase in information technology compliance or other related costs and could materially negatively impact our operations. In addition, any failures in the transition to Westlake's ERP system could delay and/or impede our ability to order materials and services, manufacture products, fill and ship customer orders, invoice customers, generate management reports and timely prepare consolidated financial statements and maintain appropriate internal control over financial reporting, and thus, could unfavorably impact our operations and regulatory compliance in a significant manner.. Failure to adequately protect critical data and technology systems could materially affect our operations.. Information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security could disrupt our operations by causing delays or cancellation of customer orders, impede the manufacture or shipment of products or cause standard business processes to become ineffective, resulting in the unintentional disclosure of information or damage to our reputation. While we have taken steps to address these concerns by implementing network security and internal control measures, there can be no assurance that a system failure, network disruption or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates could affect our consolidated financial results.. We earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rate during each reporting period, as well as assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies will affect our net revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in various currencies might occur in one or many of such currencies over time. From time to time, we may use derivative financial instruments to further reduce our net exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations. However, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, such as the recent strengthening of the U.S. dollar against major currencies, including, in particular, the Canadian dollar, could nevertheless materially adversely affect our financial results.. In addition, we are exposed to volatility in interest rates. When appropriate, we may use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to interest rate risks. However, our financial risk management program may not be successful in reducing the risks inherent in exposures to interest rate fluctuations.. Our property insurance has only partial coverage for acts of terrorism and, in the event of terrorist attack, we could lose net sales and our facilities.. As a result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and other events, our insurance carriers created certain exclusions for losses from terrorism from our property insurance policies. While separate terrorism insurance coverage is available, premiums for full coverage are very expensive, especially for chemical facilities, and the policies are subject to high deductibles. Available terrorism coverage typically excludes coverage for losses from acts of war and from acts of foreign governments as well as nuclear, biological and chemical attacks. We have determined that it is not economically prudent to obtain full terrorism insurance, especially given the significant risks that are not covered by such insurance. Where feasible we have secured some limited terrorism insurance coverage on our property where insurers have included it in their overall programs. In the event of a terrorist attack impacting one or more of our facilities, we could lose the net sales from the facilities and the facilities themselves, and could become liable for any contamination or for personal or property damage due to exposure to hazardous materials caused by any catastrophic release that may result from a terrorist attack.. Westlake Partners' tax treatment depends on its status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, and it not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation. We depend in part on distributions from Westlake Partners to generate cash for our operations, capital expenditures, debt service and other uses. If the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") were to treat Westlake Partners as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, or if Westlake Partners become subject to entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, its cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced, which would also likely cause a substantial reduction in the value of its common units that we hold.. Despite the fact that Westlake Partners is organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, it would be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless it satisfies a \"qualifying income\" requirement (the \"Qualifying Income. 19. Table of Contents. Exception\") under Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). Failure to meet the Qualifying Income Exception would cause Westlake Partners to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Prior to its initial public offering, Westlake Partners requested and obtained a favorable private letter ruling from the IRS to the effect that, based on facts presented in the private letter ruling request, income from the production, transportation, storage and marketing of ethylene and its co-products constitutes \"qualifying income\" within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Code. Failure to meet the Qualifying Income Exception or a change in current law could cause Westlake Partners to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject Westlake Partners to taxation as an entity.. We will be controlled by our principal stockholder and its affiliates as long as they own a majority of our common stock, and our other stockholders will be unable to affect the outcome of stockholder voting during that time. Our interests may conflict with those of the principal stockholder and its affiliates, and we may not be able to resolve these conflicts on terms possible in arms-length transactions.. As long as TTWF LP (the \"principal stockholder\") and its affiliates (the \"principal stockholder affiliates\") own a majority of our outstanding common stock, they will be able to exert significant control over us, and our other stockholders, by themselves, will not be able to affect the outcome of any stockholder vote. As a result, the principal stockholder, subject to any fiduciary duty owed to our minority stockholders under Delaware law, will be able to control all matters affecting us (some of which may present conflicts of interest), including:. • the composition of our Board of Directors and, through the Board, any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers and the determination of compensation;. • any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations or the acquisition or disposition of assets;. • our financing decisions, capital raising activities and the payment of dividends; and. • amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws.. The principal stockholder will be permitted to transfer a controlling interest in us without being required to offer our other stockholders the ability to participate or realize a premium for their shares of common stock. A sale of a controlling interest to a third party may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our business and results of operations because the change in control may result in a change of management decisions and business policy. Because we have elected not to be subject to Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the principal stockholder may find it easier to sell its controlling interest to a third party than if we had not so elected.. In addition to any conflicts of interest that arise in the foregoing areas, our interests may conflict with those of the principal stockholder affiliates in a number of other areas, including:. • business opportunities that may be presented to the principal stockholder affiliates and to our officers and directors associated with the principal stockholder affiliates, and competition between the principal stockholder affiliates and us within the same lines of business;. • the solicitation and hiring of employees from each other; and. • agreements with the principal stockholder affiliates relating to corporate services that may be material to our business.. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts with the principal stockholder affiliates, and even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party, particularly if the conflicts are resolved while we are controlled by the principal stockholder affiliates. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the principal stockholder affiliates have no duty to refrain from engaging in activities or lines of business similar to ours and that the principal stockholder affiliates will not be liable to us or our stockholders for failing to present specified corporate opportunities to us."
