[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. We have made in this Form 10-K, and may from time to time make in other public filings, press releases and statements by management, forward-looking statements concerning our operations, economic performance and financial condition. These forward-looking statements include statements preceded by, followed by or that otherwise include the words \"believes,\" \"expects,\" \"anticipates,\" \"intends,\" \"estimates,\" \"projects,\" \"target,\" \"goal,\" \"plans,\" \"objective,\" \"should\" or similar expressions or variations on such expressions. These statements discuss future expectations, contain projections of results of operations or financial condition or include other \"forward-looking\" information.. Although we and our general partner believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, neither we nor our general partner can give any assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations include, but are not limited to, the following:. • our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders;. • our and Anadarko's assumptions about the energy market;. • future throughput (including Anadarko production) which is gathered or processed by or transported through our assets;. • our operating results;. • competitive conditions;. • technology;. • the availability of capital resources to fund acquisitions, capital expenditures and other contractual obligations, and our ability to access those resources from Anadarko or through the debt or equity capital markets;. • the supply of, demand for, and price of, oil, natural gas, NGLs and related products or services;. • our ability to mitigate exposure to the commodity price risks inherent in our percent-of-proceeds and keep-whole contracts through the extension of our commodity price swap agreements with Anadarko, or otherwise;. • weather and natural disasters;. • inflation;. • the availability of goods and services;. • general economic conditions, internationally, domestically or in the jurisdictions in which we are doing business;. • federal, state and local laws, including those that limit Anadarko and other producers' hydraulic fracturing or other oil and natural gas operations;. • environmental liabilities;. • legislative or regulatory changes, including changes affecting our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes;. 40. Table of Contents. • changes in the financial or operational condition of Anadarko;. • the creditworthiness of Anadarko or our other counterparties, including financial institutions, operating partners, and other parties;. • changes in Anadarko's capital program, strategy or desired areas of focus;. • our commitments to capital projects;. • our ability to use the RCF;. • our ability to repay debt;. • conflicts of interest among us, our general partner, WGP and its general partner, and affiliates, including Anadarko;. • our ability to maintain and/or obtain rights to operate our assets on land owned by third parties;. • our ability to acquire assets on acceptable terms from Anadarko or third parties, and Anadarko's ability to generate an inventory of assets suitable for acquisition;. • non-payment or non-performance of Anadarko or other significant customers, including under our gathering, processing, transportation and disposal agreements and our $260.0 million note receivable from Anadarko;. • the timing, amount and terms of future issuances of equity and debt securities;. • the outcome of pending and future regulatory, legislative, or other proceedings or investigations, including the investigation by the National Transportation Safety Board (\"NTSB\") related to Anadarko's operations in Colorado, and continued or additional disruptions in operations that may occur as Anadarko and we comply with regulatory orders or other state or local changes in laws or regulations in Colorado; and. • other factors discussed below and elsewhere in this Item 1A, under the caption Critical Accounting Estimates included under Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K, and in our other public filings and press releases.. The risk factors and other factors noted throughout this Form 10-K could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.. Common units are inherently different from capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in similar businesses. We urge you to carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K in evaluating an investment in our common units.. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of the common units could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment.. 41. Table of Contents. RISKS INHERENT IN OUR BUSINESS. We are dependent on Anadarko for a substantial portion of the natural gas, crude oil, NGLs and produced water that we gather, treat, process, transport and/or dispose. A material reduction in Anadarko's production that is gathered, treated, processed or transported by our assets would result in a material decline in our revenues and cash available for distribution.. We rely on Anadarko for a substantial portion of the natural gas, crude oil, NGLs and produced water that we gather, treat, process, transport and/or dispose. For the year ended December 31, 2017, production owned or controlled by Anadarko represented (i) 34% of our natural gas gathering, treating and transportation throughput (excluding equity investment throughput), (ii) 41% of our natural gas processing throughput (excluding equity investment throughput), and (iii) 56% of our crude oil, NGL and produced water gathering, treating, transportation and disposal throughput (excluding equity investment throughput). Anadarko may decrease its production in the areas serviced by us and is under no contractual obligation to maintain its production volumes dedicated to us pursuant to the terms of our applicable gathering agreements. The loss of a significant portion of production volumes supplied by Anadarko would result in a material decline in our revenues and our cash available for distribution. In addition, Anadarko may determine that drilling activity in areas other than our areas of operation is strategically more attractive. A shift in Anadarko's focus away from our areas of operation could result in reduced throughput on our systems and a material decline in our revenues and cash available for distribution.. Because we are substantially dependent on Anadarko as our primary customer and the controlling party of our general partner, any development that materially and adversely affects Anadarko's operations, financial condition or market reputation could have a material and adverse impact on us. Material adverse changes at Anadarko could restrict our access to capital, make it more expensive to access the capital markets or increase the costs of our borrowings.. We are substantially dependent on Anadarko as our primary customer and the controlling party of our general partner and we expect to derive a majority of our revenues from Anadarko for the foreseeable future. As a result, any event, whether in our area of operations or otherwise, that adversely affects Anadarko's production, financial condition, leverage, market reputation, liquidity, results of operations or cash flows may adversely affect our revenues and cash available for distribution. Accordingly, we are indirectly subject to the business risks of Anadarko, some of which are the following:. • the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which could have a negative effect on the value of Anadarko's oil and natural gas properties, its drilling programs and its ability to finance its operations;. • the availability of capital on favorable terms to fund Anadarko's exploration and development activities;. • a reduction in or reallocation of Anadarko's capital budget, which could reduce the gathering, transportation and treating volumes available to us as a midstream operator, limit our midstream opportunities for organic growth or limit the inventory of midstream assets we may acquire from Anadarko;. • Anadarko's ability to replace its oil and natural gas reserves;. • Anadarko's operations in foreign countries, which are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties;. • Anadarko's drilling, flowline, pipeline, and operating risks, including potential environmental liabilities;. • transportation capacity constraints and interruptions;. • adverse effects of governmental and environmental regulation;. • shareholder activism with respect to Anadarko's stock or activities by non-governmental organizations to restrict the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas by Anadarko; and. • adverse effects from current or future litigation.. 42. Table of Contents. Further, we are subject to the risk of non-payment or non-performance by Anadarko, including with respect to our gathering and transportation agreements, our $260.0 million note receivable from Anadarko and our commodity price swap agreements. We cannot predict the extent to which Anadarko's business would be impacted if conditions in the energy industry were to deteriorate further, nor can we estimate the impact such conditions would have on Anadarko's ability to perform under our gathering and transportation agreements, note receivable or commodity price swap agreements. Accordingly, any material non-payment or non-performance by Anadarko could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. Also, due to our relationship with Anadarko, our ability to access the capital markets, or the pricing or other terms of any capital markets transactions, may be adversely affected by any impairments to Anadarko's financial condition or adverse changes in its credit ratings.. Any material limitations on our ability to access capital as a result of such adverse changes at Anadarko could limit our ability to obtain future financing on favorable terms, or at all, or could result in increased financing costs in the future. Similarly, material adverse changes at Anadarko could negatively impact our unit price, limiting our ability to raise capital through equity issuances or debt financing, or could negatively affect our ability to engage in, expand or pursue our business activities, and could also prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us.. See Part I, Item 1A in Anadarko's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (which is not, and shall not be deemed to be, incorporated by reference herein), for a full discussion of the risks associated with Anadarko's business.. Sustained low natural gas, NGL or oil prices could adversely affect our business.. Sustained low natural gas, NGL or oil prices impact natural gas and oil exploration and production activity levels and can result in a decline in the production of hydrocarbons over the medium to long term, resulting in reduced throughput on our systems. Such a decline also potentially affects the ability of our vendors, suppliers and customers to continue operations. As a result, sustained lower natural gas and crude oil prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders.. In general terms, the prices of natural gas, oil, condensate, NGLs and other hydrocarbon products fluctuate in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. For example, market prices for natural gas have declined substantially from the highs achieved in 2008 and have remained depressed for several years. More recently, uncertain global demand for crude oil and the increased supply resulting from the rapid development of shale plays throughout North America have contributed significantly to a substantial drop in crude oil prices. Rapid development of the North American shale plays has also increased the supply of natural gas contributing to a substantial drop in natural gas prices. Additional factors impacting commodity prices include the following:. • domestic and worldwide economic and geopolitical conditions;. • weather conditions and seasonal trends;. • the ability to develop recently discovered fields or deploy new technologies to existing fields;. • the levels of domestic production and consumer demand, as affected by, among other things, concerns over inflation, geopolitical issues and the availability and cost of credit;. • the availability of imported, or a market for exported, liquefied natural gas;. • the availability of transportation systems with adequate capacity;. • the volatility and uncertainty of regional pricing differentials, such as in the Rocky Mountains;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels;. 43. Table of Contents. • the effect of energy conservation measures;. • the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation; and. • the forecasted supply and demand for, and prices of, oil, natural gas, NGLs and other commodities.. We generate distributable cash flow from the above-market component of commodity price swap agreements with Anadarko that are scheduled to expire on December 31, 2018.. As discussed in more detail in Note 5 - Transactions with Affiliates in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K, for the year ended December 31, 2017, we had commodity price swap agreements in place with Anadarko related to our activities at the DJ Basin complex and MGR assets at prices that were significantly higher than those that could have been obtained from third parties on the open market. The above-market component of this swap activity is recorded as a cash contribution from Anadarko in the period in which attributable volumes are settled, with all such contributions included in our calculation of distributable cash flows. During 2017, for example, we recorded $58.6 million in cash contributions from Anadarko related to these swaps.. On December 20, 2017, we renewed our commodity price swap agreements with Anadarko for the DJ Basin complex and the MGR assets at significantly higher prices than those that could have been obtained from third parties on the open market. These swap agreements expire on December 31, 2018.. We may be unable to further renew the swaps with Anadarko for the DJ Basin complex and the MGR assets on similar terms or at all. If such agreements are renewed with Anadarko, they may be renewed at lower prices than those established in the agreements currently in place. In the event that we are unable to renew agreements with Anadarko, we may seek to enter into third-party commodity price swap agreements or similar hedging arrangements. Any such market-based hedging arrangement is likely to be significantly less favorable from a commodity pricing perspective and would likely result in a significant decrease in our distributable cash flow.. Because of the natural decline in production from existing wells, our success depends on our ability to obtain new sources of oil and natural gas, which is dependent on certain factors beyond our control. Any decrease in the volumes that we gather, process, treat and transport could adversely affect our business and operating results.. The volumes that support our business are dependent on, among other things, the level of production from natural gas and oil wells connected to our gathering systems and processing and treating facilities. This production will naturally decline over time. As a result, our cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels on our systems, we must obtain new sources of oil and natural gas. The primary factors affecting our ability to obtain sources of oil and natural gas include (i) the level of successful drilling activity near our systems, (ii) our ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells, to the extent such wells are not dedicated to our systems, and (iii) our ability to capture volumes currently gathered or processed by Anadarko or third parties.. While Anadarko has dedicated production from certain of its properties to us, we have no control over the level of drilling activity in our areas of operation, the amount of reserves associated with wells connected to our systems or the rate at which production from a well declines. In addition, we have no control over Anadarko or other producers or their drilling or production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, the availability and cost of capital, prevailing and projected commodity prices, demand for hydrocarbons, levels of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulations, the availability of drilling rigs and other production and development costs. Fluctuations in commodity prices can also greatly affect investments by Anadarko and third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Declines in oil and natural gas prices have materially reduced exploration, development and production activity in some regions and, if sustained, could lead to a further decrease in such activity. Sustained reductions in exploration or production activity in our areas of operation would lead to reduced utilization of our gathering, processing and treating assets.. Because of these factors, even if new oil and natural gas reserves are known to exist in areas served by our assets, producers (including Anadarko) may choose not to develop those reserves. Moreover, Anadarko may not develop the acreage it has dedicated to us. If competition or reductions in drilling activity result in our inability to maintain the current levels of throughput on our systems, it could reduce our revenue and impair our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. 44. Table of Contents. We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner, to enable us to pay distributions at previously announced levels to holders of our common units.. In order to pay the announced fourth quarter 2017 distribution of $0.920 per unit per quarter, or $3.680 per unit per year, we will require available cash of $216.6 million per quarter, or $866.3 million per year, based on the number of common units, general partner units and IDRs outstanding at February 1, 2018. We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to pay distributions at current levels. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:. • the prices of, level of production of, and demand for oil and natural gas;. • the volume of oil and natural gas we gather, compress, process, treat and/or transport;. • the volumes and prices of NGLs and condensate that we retain and sell;. • demand charges and volumetric fees associated with our transportation services;. • the level of competition from other midstream companies;. • regulatory action affecting the supply of or demand for oil or natural gas, the rates we can charge, how we contract for services, our existing contracts, our operating costs or our operating flexibility; and. • prevailing economic conditions.. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following:. • our level of capital expenditures;. • our level of operating and maintenance and general and administrative costs;. • our debt service requirements and other liabilities;. • fluctuations in our working capital needs;. • our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets;. • our treatment as a flow-through entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes;. • restrictions contained in debt agreements to which we are a party; and. • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner.. 45. Table of Contents. Our strategies to reduce our exposure to changes in commodity prices may fail to protect us and could negatively impact our financial condition, thereby reducing our cash flows and our ability to make distributions to unitholders.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, 6% of our Adjusted gross margin was generated under percent-of-proceeds and keep-whole arrangements pursuant to which the associated revenues and expenses are directly correlated with the prices of natural gas, crude oil and NGLs. This percentage may significantly increase as a result of future acquisitions, if any. See How We Evaluate Our Operations under Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K.. We pursue various strategies to seek to reduce our exposure to adverse changes in the prices for natural gas, condensate and NGLs. These strategies will vary in scope based upon the level and volatility of natural gas, condensate and NGL prices and other changing market conditions. We currently have in place commodity price swap agreements with Anadarko expiring in December 2018 to manage a majority of the commodity price risk otherwise inherent in our percent-of-proceeds and keep-whole contracts. To the extent that we engage in price risk management activities such as the commodity price swap agreements, we may be prevented from realizing the full benefits of price increases above the levels set in those agreements. In addition, our commodity price management may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including if the counterparties to our hedging or other price risk management contracts fail to perform under those arrangements.. On December 20, 2017, we renewed our commodity price swap agreements with Anadarko for the DJ Basin complex and the MGR assets through December 31, 2018. Upon the expiration of these commodity price swap agreements, we may be unable to renew such agreements with Anadarko on similar terms or at all. If such agreements are renewed with Anadarko, they may be renewed at lower prices than those established in the agreements currently in place. In the event that we are unable to renew agreements with Anadarko, we may seek to enter into third-party commodity price swap agreements or similar hedging arrangements. Any such market-based hedging arrangement is likely to be significantly less favorable from a commodity pricing perspective and would likely expose us to volumetric risk to which we are currently not exposed, because our current commodity price swap agreements with Anadarko are based on our actual volumes.. Additionally, if we are unable to effectively manage the risk associated with our contracts that have commodity price exposure, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Changes in laws or regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs, operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells, which could decrease the need for our gathering and processing services.. While we do not conduct hydraulic fracturing, our customers do conduct such activities. Hydraulic fracturing is an essential and common practice used by many of our oil and natural gas exploration and production customers to stimulate production of natural gas and oil from dense subsurface rock formations such as shales. Hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and natural-gas commissions, but, in recent years, several federal agencies have also asserted regulatory authority over and proposed or promulgated regulations governing certain aspects of the process. For example, in June 2016, the EPA published an effluent limit guideline final rule prohibiting the discharge of wastewater from onshore unconventional oil and gas extraction facilities to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants.. Additionally, in Colorado, where 28% of our throughput for natural gas assets (excluding equity investment throughput) is generated, certain interest groups opposed to oil and natural gas development generally, and hydraulic fracturing in particular, have from time to time pursued ballot initiatives that, if approved, would allow revisions to the state constitution in a manner that would make such exploration and production more difficult or costly in the future.. Furthermore, Congress has from time to time considered the adoption of legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing. At the state level, a growing number of states have adopted or are considering adopting legal requirements that could impose more stringent disclosure and/or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations, and states could elect to prohibit high-volume hydraulic fracturing altogether, following the approach taken by the State of New York. In addition, local governments may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular. Further, in December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, concluding that \"water cycle\" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources \"under some circumstances.\". 46. Table of Contents. If new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions or prohibitions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where our oil and natural gas exploration and production customers operate, those customers could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements and experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, which could reduce demand for our gathering and processing services. Moreover, increased regulation of the hydraulic fracturing process could also lead to greater opposition to, and litigation over, oil and natural gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques.. Regulations relating to potential induced seismic activity associated with produced water disposal could affect our operations.. We dispose of produced water generated from oil and natural gas production operations. The legal requirements related to the disposal of produced water in underground injection wells are subject to change based on concerns of the public or governmental authorities, including concerns relating to recent seismic events near injection wells used for the disposal of produced water. In response to such concerns, regulators in some states have imposed, or are considering imposing, additional requirements in the permitting of produced water disposal wells or are otherwise investigating the existence of a relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. For example, Colorado developed and follows guidance when issuing underground injection control permits to limit the maximum injection pressure, rate, and volume of water. Oklahoma has issued rules for wastewater disposal wells that imposed certain permitting and operating restrictions and reporting requirements on disposal wells in proximity to faults, and is also developing and implementing plans directing certain wells where seismic incidents have occurred to restrict or suspend disposal well operations. The Texas Railroad Commission has also adopted similar permitting, operating, and reporting rules for disposal wells. In addition, ongoing class action lawsuits, to which we are not currently a party, allege that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. These developments could result in additional regulation and restrictions on our use of injection wells to dispose of produced water, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, capital expenditures and operating costs, and financial condition.. Adverse developments in our geographic areas of operation could disproportionately impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our business and operations are concentrated in a limited number of producing areas. Due to our limited geographic diversification, adverse operational developments, regulatory or legislative changes, or other events in an area in which we have significant operations could have a greater impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders than they would if our operations were more diversified.. If Anadarko were to limit transfers of midstream assets to us or if we were to be unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms from Anadarko or third parties, our future growth would be limited. In addition, any acquisitions we make may reduce, rather than increase, our cash generated from operations on a per-unit basis or otherwise fail to meet our expectations.. Our ability to grow depends, in part, on our ability to make acquisitions that increase our cash generated from operations on a per-unit basis. The acquisition component of our strategy is based, in large part, on our expectation of ongoing divestitures of midstream assets by industry participants, including, most notably, Anadarko. A material decrease in such divestitures would limit our opportunities for future acquisitions and could adversely affect our ability to grow our operations and increase our distributions to our unitholders.. If we are unable to make accretive acquisitions from Anadarko or third parties because, among other things, (i) we are unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts, (ii) we are unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, (iii) we are outbid by competitors, including as a result of increases in our overall cost of capital resulting from our capital structure, or (iv) Anadarko lacks assets suitable for us to acquire, then our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in the cash generated from operations on a per-unit basis.. 47. Table of Contents. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including the following, among other things:. • mistaken assumptions about volumes or the timing of those volumes, revenues or costs, including synergies;. • an inability to successfully integrate the acquired assets or businesses;. • the assumption of unknown liabilities;. • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller;. • mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt;. • the diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns;. • unforeseen difficulties operating in new geographic areas; and. • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses.. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly.. We may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all. This may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs.. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, volatile, especially for companies involved in the oil and gas industry. The repricing of credit risk and the recent relatively weak economic conditions have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult for some entities to obtain funding. In addition, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on terms similar to the borrower's current debt, and reduced, or in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Further, we may be unable to obtain adequate funding under the RCF if our lending counterparties become unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding will be available if needed and to the extent required on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to execute our business plans, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Restrictions in the indentures governing our publicly traded notes (collectively, the \"Notes\") or the RCF may limit our ability to capitalize on acquisitions and other business opportunities.. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in the agreements governing the Notes, the RCF and any future financing arrangements could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue business activities associated with our subsidiaries and equity investments. The RCF contains, and with respect to the second, fourth and fifth bullets below, the indentures governing the Notes contain, covenants that restrict or limit our ability to do the following:. • incur additional indebtedness or guarantee other indebtedness;. • grant liens to secure obligations other than our obligations under the Notes or RCF or agree to restrictions on our ability to grant additional liens to secure our obligations under the Notes or RCF;. • engage in transactions with affiliates;. 48. Table of Contents. • make any material change to the nature of our business from the midstream business; or. • enter into a merger, consolidate, liquidate, wind up or dissolve.. The RCF also contains various customary covenants, customary events of default and a maximum consolidated leverage ratio as of the end of each quarter (which is defined as the ratio of consolidated indebtedness as of the last day of a fiscal quarter to Consolidated EBITDA, as defined in the RCF, for the most recent four consecutive fiscal quarters ending on such day) of 5.0 to 1.0, or a consolidated leverage ratio of 5.5 to 1.0 with respect to quarters ending in the 270-day period immediately following certain acquisitions. See Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K for a further discussion of the terms of the RCF and Notes.. Debt we owe or incur in the future may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities.. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following:. • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms;. • our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flows required to make interest payments on our debt;. • we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and. • our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited.. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service any future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all.. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels.. Interest rates may increase in the future, whether because of inflation, increased yields on U.S. Treasury obligations or otherwise. In such cases, the interest rates on our floating rate debt, including amounts outstanding under the RCF, would increase. If interest rates rise, our future financing costs could increase accordingly. In addition, as is true with other MLPs (the common units of which are often viewed by investors as yield-oriented securities), our unit price is impacted by our level of cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels.. 49. Table of Contents. Our failure to maintain an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting could adversely affect our ability to accurately report our results.. Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide a reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in our internal control that results in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Effective internal control is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and deter and detect any material fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent material fraud, our reputation and operating results will be harmed. Our efforts to develop and maintain our internal control and to remediate material weaknesses in our control may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain adequate control over our financial processes and reporting in the future, including future compliance with the obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to develop or maintain effective control, or difficulties encountered in their implementation or other effective improvement of our internal control, could harm our operating results. Ineffective internal control could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information.. Our business could be negatively affected by security threats, including cyber threats, and other disruptions.. We face various security threats, including cyber threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure, attempts to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable and terrorist acts. Our implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for our facilities, infrastructure and information may result in increased costs. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. Cyber attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited to, malicious software intended to gain unauthorized access to data and systems, electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. For example, the gathering, processing, treating and transportation of natural gas from our gathering systems, processing facilities and pipelines are dependent on communications among our facilities and with third-party systems that may be delivering natural gas into or receiving natural gas and other products from our facilities. Disruption of those communications, whether caused by cyber attacks or otherwise, may disrupt our ability to deliver natural gas and control these assets.. There is no assurance that we will not suffer material losses from cyber attacks in the future, and as such threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate or remediate any cyber vulnerabilities. Any terrorist or cyber attack against, or other disruption of, our assets or computer systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to holders of our common units depends primarily on our cash flows rather than on our profitability. As a result, we may be prevented from making distributions, even during periods in which we record net income.. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flows and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions for periods in which we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions for periods in which we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes.. The amount of available cash required to pay the distribution announced for the quarter ended December 31, 2017, on all of our common units, general partner units and IDRs was $216.6 million, or $866.3 million per year. The Class C unit distribution, if paid in cash, would have been $12.2 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2017. To the extent we do not have sufficient available cash under our partnership agreement, we may be unable to pay such distributions or similar distributions in the future.. 50. Table of Contents. We typically do not obtain independent evaluations of hydrocarbon reserves connected to our systems. Therefore, in the future, throughput on our systems could be less than we anticipate.. We typically do not obtain independent evaluations of hydrocarbon reserves connected to our systems. Accordingly, we do not have independent estimates of total reserves connected to our systems or the anticipated life of such reserves. If the total reserves or estimated life of the reserves connected to our systems are less than we anticipate, or the timeline for the development of reserves is greater than we anticipate, and we are unable to secure additional sources of oil and natural gas, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our business and operating results.. We compete with similar enterprises in our areas of operation. Our competitors may expand or construct midstream systems that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. In addition, our customers, including Anadarko, may develop their own midstream systems in lieu of using ours. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and our customers. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by asset impairments.. If commodity prices decrease, we may be required to write down the value of our midstream properties if the estimated future cash flows from these properties fall below their net book value. Because we are an affiliate of Anadarko, the assets we acquire from Anadarko are recorded at Anadarko's carrying value prior to the transaction. Accordingly, we may be at an increased risk for impairments because the initial book values of a substantial portion of our assets do not have a direct relationship with, and in some cases could be significantly higher than, the amounts we paid to acquire such assets. For example, see the discussion of material impairments at our Hilight system and Red Desert and Granger complexes in Note 7 - Property, Plant and Equipment in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.. Further, at December 31, 2017, we had $416.2 million of goodwill on our balance sheet. Goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business acquired exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. In addition, similar to the carrying value of the assets we acquired from Anadarko, part of our goodwill is an allocated portion of Anadarko's goodwill, which we recorded as a component of the carrying value of the assets we acquired from Anadarko. As a result, we may be at increased risk for impairments relative to entities who acquire their assets from third parties or construct their own assets, as the carrying value of our goodwill does not reflect, and in some cases is significantly higher than, the difference between the consideration we paid for our acquisitions and the fair value of the net assets on the acquisition date.. Goodwill is not amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairments, and more frequently when circumstances indicate likely impairments, by applying a fair-value-based test. Goodwill is deemed impaired to the extent that its carrying amount exceeds its implied fair value. Various factors could lead to goodwill impairments, such as our inability to maintain throughput on our assets or sustained lower oil and natural gas prices, by reducing the fair value of the associated reporting unit. Prolonged low or further declines in commodity prices and changes to producers' drilling plans in response to lower prices could result in additional impairments in future periods. Future non-cash asset impairments could negatively affect our results of operations.. 51. Table of Contents. If third-party pipelines or other facilities interconnected to our gathering, transportation, treating or processing systems become partially or fully unavailable, or if the volumes we gather or transport do not meet the quality requirements of such pipelines or facilities, our revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected.. Our gathering, transportation, treating and processing systems are connected to other pipelines or facilities, the majority of which are owned by third parties. The continuing operation of such third-party pipelines or facilities is not within our control. If any of these pipelines or facilities becomes unable to transport, treat or process crude oil, natural gas or NGLs, or if the volumes we gather or transport do not meet the quality requirements of such pipelines or facilities, our revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected.. Our interstate natural gas and liquids transportation assets and operations are subject to regulation by FERC, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and our ability to make distributions.. Our interstate natural gas pipelines are subject to regulation by FERC. If we fail to comply with all applicable FERC-administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. FERC has civil penalty authority to impose penalties for certain violations potentially in excess of $1.0 million per day for each violation. FERC also has the power to order disgorgement of profits from transactions deemed to violate applicable statutes. For additional information, read Regulation of Operations - Interstate Natural Gas Pipeline Regulation under Items 1 and 2 of this Form 10-K.. Our interstate liquids pipelines are common carriers and are also subject to regulation by FERC. FERC regulation requires that common carrier liquid pipeline rates and interstate natural gas pipeline rates be filed with FERC and that these rates be \"just and reasonable\" and not unduly discriminatory. Interested persons may challenge proposed new or changed rates, and FERC is authorized to suspend the effectiveness of such rates pending an investigation or hearing. FERC may also investigate, upon complaint or on its own motion, rates that are already in effect and may order a carrier to change its rates prospectively. Accordingly, action by FERC could adversely affect our ability to establish reasonable rates that cover operating costs and allow for a reasonable return. An adverse determination in any future rate proceeding brought by or against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash available for distribution. For example, one such matter relates to FERC's policy regarding allowances for income taxes in determining a regulated entity's cost of service. FERC allows regulated companies to recover an allowance for income taxes in rates only to the extent the company or its owners, such as our unitholders, are subject to U.S. income tax. This policy affects whom we allow to own our units, and if we are not successful in limiting ownership of our units to persons or entities subject to U.S. income tax, our FERC-regulated rates and revenues for our FERC-regulated gas and liquids pipelines could be adversely affected. For additional information, read Regulation of Operations - Interstate Liquids Pipeline Regulation under Items 1 and 2 of this Form 10-K.. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies could result in increased regulation of our assets, which could cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase.. We believe that our gas gathering systems meet the traditional tests FERC has used to determine if a pipeline is a gas gathering pipeline and is, therefore, not subject to FERC jurisdiction. FERC, however, has not made any determinations with respect to the jurisdictional status of any of these gas gathering systems. The distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services has been the subject of ongoing litigation and, over time, FERC policy concerning which activities it regulates and which activities are excluded from its regulation has changed. State regulation of gathering facilities generally includes various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take requirements and complaint-based rate regulation. In recent years, FERC has regulated the gas gathering activities of interstate pipeline transmission companies more lightly, which has resulted in a number of such companies transferring gathering facilities to unregulated affiliates. As a result of these activities, natural gas gathering may begin to receive greater regulatory scrutiny at both the state and federal levels.. FERC makes jurisdictional determinations for both natural gas gathering and liquids lines on a case-by-case basis. The classification and regulation of our pipelines are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts or Congress. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies could result in increased regulation of our assets, which could cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase. For additional information, read Regulation of Operations - Natural Gas Gathering Pipeline Regulation under Items 1 and 2 of this Form 10-K.. 52. Table of Contents. The adoption of climate change or other air emissions legislation or regulations restricting emissions of GHGs or other air pollutants could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the gathering, processing, compressing, treating and transporting services we provide.. Changes in climate change or other air emissions laws and regulations, or reinterpretations of enforcement or other guidance with respect thereto, that govern areas where we operate may negatively impact our operations. Examples of such proposed and/or final regulations or other regulatory initiatives are included below.. • Ground-Level Ozone Standards. In October 2015, the EPA issued a rule under the Clean Air Act, lowering the National Ambient Air Quality Standard (\"NAAQS\") for ground-level ozone from 75 parts per billion to 70 parts per billion. The EPA published a final rule in November 2017 that issued attainment or unclassifiable area designations with respect to ground-level ozone for numerous counties in the United States and is expected to issue non-attainment area designations in the first half of 2018. Reclassification of areas or imposition of more stringent standards may make it more difficult to construct new or modified sources of air pollution in newly designated non-attainment areas. Also, states with counties that are designated as non-attainment are expected to implement more stringent regulations for those non-attainment areas, which could require installation of new emission controls on some of our equipment, resulting in longer permitting timelines, and significantly increase our capital expenditures and operating costs.. • Reduction of Methane Emissions by the Oil and Gas Industry. In June 2016, the EPA published a final rule establishing new emissions standards for methane and additional standards for volatile organic compounds from certain new, modified, and reconstructed oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing and transmission facilities. The EPA's rule is comprised of New Source Performance Standards, known as Subpart OOOOa, which require certain new, modified, or reconstructed facilities in the oil and natural gas sector to reduce these methane gas and volatile organic compound emissions. These Subpart OOOOa standards will expand previously issued New Source Performance Standards to, among other things, hydraulically fractured oil and natural gas well completions, fugitive emissions from well sites and compressors, and equipment leaks at natural gas processing plants and pneumatic pumps. However, in June 2017, the EPA published a proposed rule to stay certain portions of these Subpart OOOOa standards for two years and revisit the entirety of the 2016 standard, but it has not yet published a final rule and, as a result, the June 2016 standards remain in effect but future implementation of the 2016 standards is uncertain at this time. Furthermore, the Bureau of Land Management (\"BLM\") published a final rule in November 2016 that requires a reduction in methane emissions from venting, flaring and leaking on public lands. However, in December 2017, the BLM published a final rule that temporarily suspends or delays certain requirements contained in the 2016 final rule until January 17, 2019. The suspension of the November 2016 final rule is being challenged by several non-governmental organizations and states. Notwithstanding the current uncertainty of the 2016 rule, we have taken measures to enter into a voluntary regime, together with certain other oil and natural gas exploration and production operators, to reduce methane emissions. At the state level, some states where we operate, including Colorado, have issued requirements for the performance of leak detection programs that identify and repair methane leaks at certain oil and natural gas sources. Compliance with these rules or with any future federal or state methane regulations could, among other things, require installation of new emission controls on some of our equipment and significantly increase our capital expenditures and operating costs.. 53. Table of Contents. • Reduction of GHG Emissions. The U.S. Congress and the EPA, in addition to some state and regional authorities, have in recent years considered legislation or regulations to reduce emissions of GHGs. These efforts have included consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes, GHG reporting and tracking programs, and regulations that directly limit GHG emissions from certain sources. In the absence of federal GHG-limiting legislation, the EPA has determined that GHG emissions present a danger to public health and the environment and has adopted regulations that, among other things, restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act and may require the installation of \"best available control technology\" to limit emissions of GHGs from any new or significantly modified facilities that we may seek to construct in the future if they would otherwise emit large volumes of GHGs together with other criteria pollutants. Also, certain of our operations are subject to EPA rules requiring the monitoring and annual reporting of GHG emissions from specified onshore and offshore production sources. In December 2015, the United States joined the international community at the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France and agreed to review its GHG emissions and set GHG emission reduction goals every five years beginning in 2020. Although this agreement does not create any binding obligations, it does include pledges to voluntarily limit or reduce future emissions. In August 2017, the U.S. State Department informed the United Nations of the intent of the United States to withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020. Notwithstanding any withdrawal from this agreement, the implementation of substantial limitations on GHG emissions in areas where we conduct operations could adversely affect demand for oil and natural gas.. Derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business.. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us and Anadarko, that participate in that market. The CFTC has finalized certain of its regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act, but others remain to be finalized or implemented. It is not possible at this time to predict when this will be accomplished or what the terms of the final rules will be, so the impact of those rules is uncertain at this time.. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter and reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing commodity price contracts. If we reduce the use of commodity price contracts as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures and make cash distributions to our unitholders.. 54. Table of Contents. We may incur significant costs and liabilities resulting from pipeline integrity programs and related repairs.. Pursuant to authority under federal law, PHMSA has promulgated regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop and implement integrity management programs for certain gas and hazardous liquid pipelines that, in the event of a pipeline leak or rupture, could affect HCAs, which are areas where a release could have the most significant adverse consequences, including high population areas, certain drinking water sources and unusually sensitive ecological areas. These regulations require the operators of covered pipelines to: (i) perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; (ii) identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact HCAs; (iii) improve data collection, integration and analysis; (iv) repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and (v) implement preventive and mitigating actions. In addition, states have adopted regulations similar to existing PHMSA regulations for certain intrastate gas and hazardous liquid pipelines. At this time, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these regulations, as the cost will vary significantly depending on the number and extent of any repairs or replacements of pipeline segments found to be necessary as a result of the pipeline integrity testing. The results of these tests could cause us to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or replacements of pipeline segments deemed necessary to ensure the safe and reliable operation of our pipelines. Moreover, the adoption of any new legislation or regulations that impose more stringent or costly pipeline integrity management standards could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position.. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to pipeline safety that require the use of new or more stringent safety controls or result in more stringent enforcement of applicable legal requirements could subject us to increased capital costs, operational delays and costs of operation.. In June 2016, PHMSA's statutory mandate regarding pipeline safety was extended through 2019, and PHMSA was given expanded authority to address unsafe pipeline conditions or practices that pose an imminent hazard to life, property, or the environment. The imposition of new safety requirements or any issuance or reinterpretation of guidance by PHMSA or any state agencies with respect thereto could require us to install new or modified safety controls, pursue additional capital projects or conduct maintenance programs on an accelerated basis, any or all of which could result in our incurring increased operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. For example, in January 2017, PHMSA issued a final rule that significantly extends and expands the reach of certain PHMSA integrity management requirements, such as, for example, periodic assessments, leak detection and repairs, regardless of the pipeline's proximity to a high consequence area. The final rule also imposes new reporting requirements for certain unregulated pipelines, including all hazardous liquid gathering lines. However, the date of implementation of this final rule by publication in the Federal Register remains uncertain given the January 2017 change in presidential administrations. Additionally, in March 2016, PHMSA announced a proposed rulemaking that would impose new or more stringent requirements for certain natural gas lines and gathering lines including, among other things, expanding certain of PHMSA's current regulatory safety programs for natural gas pipelines in newly defined \"moderate consequence areas\" that contain as few as five dwellings within a potential impact area; requiring natural gas pipelines installed before 1970 and thus excluded from certain pressure testing obligations to be tested to determine their MAOP; and requiring certain onshore and offshore gathering lines in Class I areas to comply with damage prevention, corrosion control, public education, MAOP limits, line markers and emergency planning standards. Additional requirements proposed by this proposed rulemaking would increase PHMSA's integrity management requirements and also require consideration of seismicity in evaluating threats to pipelines. PHMSA has not yet finalized the March 2016 proposed rulemaking. Additionally, PHMSA and one or more state regulators, including the RRC, have in recent years expanded the scope of their regulatory inspections to include certain in-plant equipment and pipelines found within NGL fractionation facilities and associated storage facilities, to assess compliance with hazardous liquids pipeline safety requirements. To the extent that PHMSA and/or state regulatory agencies are successful in asserting their jurisdiction in this manner, midstream operators of NGL fractionation facilities and associated storage facilities may be required to make operational changes or modifications at their facilities to meet standards beyond current OSHA and EPA requirements, which changes or modifications may result in additional capital costs, possible operational delays and increased costs of operation that, in some instances, may be significant.. 55. Table of Contents. Some portions of our pipeline systems have been in service for several decades, and we have a limited ownership history with respect to certain of our assets. There could be unknown events or conditions or increased maintenance or repair expenses and downtime associated with our pipelines that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Some portions of the pipeline systems that we operate were in service for many decades prior to our purchase of them. Consequently, there may be historical occurrences or latent issues regarding our pipeline systems that our executive management may be unaware of and that may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The age and condition of our pipeline systems could also result in increased maintenance or repair expenditures, and any downtime associated with increased maintenance and repair activities could materially reduce our revenue. Any significant increase in maintenance and repair expenditures or loss of revenue due to the age or condition of our pipeline systems could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We are subject to stringent and comprehensive environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.. Our operations are subject to stringent and comprehensive federal, tribal, state and local environmental laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These environmental laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations, including: (i) the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities; (ii) restrictions on the types, quantities and concentrations of materials that can be released into the environment; (iii) limitations on the generation, management and disposal of wastes; (iv) limitations or prohibitions of construction and operating activities in environmentally sensitive areas such as wetlands, urban areas, wilderness regions and other protected areas; (v) requiring capital expenditures to limit or prevent releases of materials from our pipelines and facilities; and (vi) imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations or existing at our owned or operated facilities. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly remedial or corrective actions. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits or any newly adopted legal requirements may result in the assessment of sanctions and administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory, remedial or corrective action obligations, the incurrence of capital expenditures, the occurrence of delays in the permitting, development or expansion of projects, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations in particular areas.. We may incur significant environmental costs and liabilities in connection with our operations due to our handling of natural gas, crude oil, NGLs and other petroleum products, because of air emissions and discharges related to our operations, and as a result of historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. For example, an accidental release as a result of our operations could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by owners of the properties through which our gathering or transportation systems pass, neighboring landowners, and other third parties for personal injury, natural resource and property damages, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Joint and several strict liabilities may be incurred, without regard to fault, under certain of these environmental laws and regulations. In addition, stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our operational or compliance costs as well as the costs of any remedial actions that may become necessary, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. For example, regulatory initiatives targeting the reduction of certain air pollutants, such as ground level ozone or GHGs such as methane, have been proposed and/or adopted by the EPA but are currently subject to various legal impediments. The adoption of these or any other laws, regulations or other legally enforceable mandates could increase our oil and natural gas customers' operating and compliance costs as well as reduce the rate of production of oil or natural gas by operators with whom we have a business relationship, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. 56. Table of Contents. In addition, the legal requirements related to the disposal of wastewater to non-producing underground formations by means of underground injection wells are subject to change based on concerns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such disposal activities. One such concern relates to recent seismic events near injection wells used for the disposal of produced water resulting from oil and natural gas activities. In response to concerns regarding induced seismicity, regulators in some states have imposed, or are considering imposing, additional requirements in the permitting of produced water disposal wells or otherwise to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. For example, Oklahoma has issued rules for wastewater disposal wells that impose certain permitting and operating restrictions and reporting requirements on disposal wells in proximity to faults and also, from time to time, is developing and implementing plans directing operators of wells injecting at certain depths where seismic incidents have occurred to restrict or suspend disposal well operations. The Texas Railroad Commission has adopted similar permitting, operating, and reporting rules for disposal wells. In addition, class action lawsuits to which we are not currently a party, have been pursued and additional litigation may arise in the future, in which plaintiffs have or may allege that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. These developments could result in additional regulation and restrictions on our use of injection wells, which could have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures and operating costs, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and is subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. One of the ways we intend to grow our business is through the construction of new midstream assets. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing systems and the construction of new midstream assets involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties that are beyond our control. These uncertainties could also affect downstream assets, which we do not own or control, but which are critical to certain of our growth projects. Delays in the completion of new downstream assets, or the unavailability of existing downstream assets, due to environmental, regulatory or political considerations, could have an adverse impact on the completion or utilization of our growth projects. In addition, construction activities could be subject to state, county and local ordinances that restrict the time, place or manner in which those activities may be conducted. Construction projects may also require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, and financing may not be available on economically acceptable terms or at all. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost, or at all. In addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we expand a pipeline, the construction may occur over an extended period of time, yet we will not receive any material increases in revenues until the project is completed. Moreover, we could construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which such growth does not materialize. Since we are not engaged in the exploration for and development of natural gas and oil reserves, we often do not have access to estimates of potential reserves in an area prior to constructing facilities in that area. To the extent we rely on estimates of future production in our decision to construct additions to our systems, such estimates may prove to be inaccurate as a result of the numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of future production. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the construction of additions to our existing assets may require us to obtain new rights-of-way. We may be unable to obtain such rights-of-way and may, therefore, be unable to connect new natural gas volumes to our systems or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of renewing existing or obtaining new rights-of-way increases, our cash flows could be adversely affected.. 57. Table of Contents. We have partial ownership interests in several joint venture legal entities that we do not operate or control. As a result, among other things, we may be unable to control the amount of cash we receive or retain from the operation of these entities, and we could be required to contribute significant cash to fund our share of their operations, which could adversely affect our ability to distribute cash to our unitholders.. Our inability, or limited ability, to control the operations and/or management of joint venture legal entities in which we have a partial ownership interest may result in our receiving or retaining less cash than we expect. We also may be unable, or limited in our ability, to cause any such entity to effect significant transactions such as large expenditures or contractual commitments, the construction or acquisition of assets, or the borrowing of money.. In addition, for the equity investments in which we have a minority ownership interest, we are unable to control ongoing operational decisions, including the incurrence of capital expenditures or additional indebtedness that we may be required to fund. Further, the other owners of our equity investments may establish reserves for working capital, capital projects, environmental matters and legal proceedings, that would similarly reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. Any of the above could significantly and adversely impact our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Further, in connection with the acquisition of our membership interest in Chipeta, we became party to the Chipeta LLC agreement. Among other things, the Chipeta LLC agreement provides that to the extent available, Chipeta will distribute available cash, as defined in the Chipeta LLC agreement, to its members quarterly in accordance with those members' membership interests. Accordingly, we are required to distribute a portion of Chipeta's cash balances, which are included in the cash balances in our consolidated balance sheets, to the other Chipeta member.. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could result in disruptions to our operations.. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities have been constructed, and we are, therefore, subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights-of-way or if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate. We obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. Any loss of rights with respect to our real property, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not fully insured, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected.. Our operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards inherent in gathering, processing, compressing, treating and transporting natural gas, crude oil, NGLs and produced water, including the following:. • damage to pipelines and plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism;. • inadvertent damage from construction, farm and utility equipment;. • leaks or losses of hydrocarbons or produced water as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities;. • fires and explosions (for example, see Items Affecting the Comparability of Our Financial Results, under Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K for a discussion of the incident at the DBM complex); and. • other hazards that could also result in personal injury, loss of life, pollution, natural resource damages and/or curtailment or suspension of operations.. 58. Table of Contents. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental or natural resource damage. These risks may also result in curtailment or suspension of our operations. A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are not fully insured against all risks that may occur in our business. In addition, although we are insured for environmental pollution resulting from environmental accidents that occur on a sudden and accidental basis, we may not be insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, some of which may result in toxic tort claims. If a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not fully insured, it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies may substantially increase. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Additionally, we may be unable to recover from prior owners of our assets, pursuant to certain indemnification rights, for potential environmental liabilities.. We are exposed to the credit risk of third-party customers, and any material non-payment or non-performance by these parties, including with respect to our gathering, processing, transportation and disposal agreements, could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. On some of our systems, we rely on third-party customers for substantially all of our revenues related to those assets. The loss of all or even a portion of the contracted volumes of these customers, as a result of competition, creditworthiness, inability to negotiate extensions, replacements of contracts or otherwise, could reduce our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Further, to the extent any of our third-party customers is in financial distress or enters bankruptcy proceedings, the related customer contracts may be renegotiated at lower rates or rejected altogether.. The loss of, or difficulty in attracting and retaining, experienced personnel could reduce our competitiveness and prospects for future success.. The successful execution of our growth strategy and other activities integral to our operations depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced engineering, operating, commercial and other professionals. Competition for such professionals has historically been intense. If we cannot retain our technical personnel or attract additional experienced technical personnel, our ability to compete could be adversely impacted.. We are required to deduct estimated future maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus, which may result in less cash available for distribution to unitholders than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted.. Our partnership agreement requires us to deduct estimated, rather than actual, maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus. The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus is subject to review and change by the Special Committee of our Board of Directors at least once a year. In years when our estimated maintenance capital expenditures are higher than actual maintenance capital expenditures, the amount of cash available for distribution will be lower than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted from operating surplus. If we underestimate the appropriate level of estimated maintenance capital expenditures, we may have less cash available for distribution in future periods when actual capital expenditures begin to exceed our previous estimates. Over time, if we do not set aside sufficient cash reserves or have sufficient sources of financing available to make the expenditures required to maintain our asset base, we may be unable to pay distributions at the anticipated level and could be required to reduce our distributions.. 59. Table of Contents. RISKS INHERENT IN AN INVESTMENT IN US. Anadarko, through its control of WGP, controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Anadarko, WGP and our general partner have conflicts of interest with, and may favor Anadarko's interests to the detriment of, our unitholders.. Anadarko, through its control of WGP, controls our general partner and indirectly has the power to appoint all of the officers and directors of our general partner. Although our general partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that is beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner that is beneficial to its owner, WGP, in which Anadarko holds a controlling general partner interest and an 81.6% limited partner interest. Conflicts of interest may arise between Anadarko, WGP and our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of Anadarko and WGP over our interests and the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include the following situations, among others:. • Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Anadarko to pursue a business strategy that favors us.. • Anadarko is not limited in its ability to compete with us and may offer business opportunities or sell midstream assets to parties other than us.. • Our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Anadarko, in resolving conflicts of interest.. • The officers of our general partner devote significant time to the business of Anadarko and are compensated by Anadarko accordingly. For example, all of the equity incentive compensation currently provided to the officers of our general partner is tied to Anadarko's common stock rather than our or WGP's common units.. • Our partnership agreement limits the liability of, and reduces the default state law fiduciary duties owed by, our general partner, and also restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state law.. • Except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval.. • Our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders.. • Our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and to our general partner.. • Our general partner determines which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us.. • Our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make IDR payments.. • Our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf.. • Our general partner has limited, and intends to continue to limit, its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations.. 60. Table of Contents. • Our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if they own more than 80% of the common units.. • Our general partner controls the enforcement of the obligations that it and its affiliates owe to us.. • Our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us.. • Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue Class B units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to the IDRs without the approval of the Special Committee of the Board of Directors or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations.. Read Part III, Item 13 of this Form 10-K for additional information.. A reduction in Anadarko's ownership interest in us may reduce its incentive to support the Partnership.. As discussed in Our Relationship with Anadarko Petroleum Corporation in Part I, Items 1 and 2 of this Form 10-K, we believe that one of our principal strengths is our relationship with Anadarko, and that Anadarko, through its significant indirect economic interest in us, will continue to be motivated to promote and support the successful execution of our business plan and to pursue projects that help to enhance the value of our business. In 2014, Anadarko began monetizing a portion of its investment in WGP, including the sale of an aggregate of 20,550,000 WGP common units and 9,200,000 tangible equity units, which partially consist of prepaid equity purchase contracts that can be settled in WGP common units. To the extent Anadarko's net interest in us continues to decline through the sale of its WGP holdings or otherwise, Anadarko may be less incentivized to grow our business by offering us assets or commercial arrangements. For example, a decrease in Anadarko's net holdings in us could reduce its incentive to renew our commodity price swap agreements on terms as favorable as currently exist or at all. Accordingly, a decrease in Anadarko's net holdings in us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and ability to grow or make cash distributions to our unitholders.. The amount of cash we pay to our general partner under the IDRs increases as we grow our distributions to limited partners. This increased payout to our general partner raises our overall cost of capital which could impact distribution growth.. WGP, through its ownership of our general partner, holds all of our IDRs. While the IDRs provide Anadarko, which indirectly owns an 81.6% limited partner interest in WGP, financial incentive to continue to grow our business over time, 33.2% of our total distributions (excluding distributions paid on Class C units) were paid to our general partner as a result of its ownership of our IDRs during the fourth quarter of 2017. As this percentage grows over time, our cost of equity capital will increase, and we could become less competitive in pursuit of acquisition candidates. As a result, in the future we may be unable to acquire or construct assets on an accretive basis and further grow our limited partner distributions. We have from time to time discussed, and may discuss in the future, various transactions that would result in a simplification of our capital structure, including the potential modification or elimination of our IDRs. To date, no proposals have been made. Future evaluation of any such transaction, if any, will be based on a variety of factors, including general industry and market conditions. As a result, we can provide no assurance regarding the likelihood, timing or structure of any such transaction. If consummated, a simplification transaction could be dilutive to the holders of our common units and reduce the rate of our future distribution growth.. 61. Table of Contents. The duties of our general partner's officers and directors may conflict with their duties as officers and directors of WGP's general partner.. Our general partner's officers and directors have duties to manage our business in a manner that is beneficial to us, our unitholders and the owner of our general partner, WGP, which is in turn controlled by Anadarko. However, more than half of our general partner's directors and all of its officers are also officers and/or directors of WGP's general partner, which has duties to manage the business of WGP in a manner beneficial to WGP and WGP's unitholders, including Anadarko. Consequently, these directors and officers may encounter situations in which their obligations to us on the one hand, and WGP and/or Anadarko, on the other hand, are in conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our unitholders.. In addition, our general partner's officers, who are also the officers of WGP's general partner and certain of whom are officers of Anadarko, will have responsibility for overseeing the allocation of their own time and time spent by administrative personnel on our behalf and on behalf of WGP and/or Anadarko. These officers may face conflicts regarding these time allocations.. Neither Anadarko nor WGP is limited in its ability to compete with us or is obligated to offer us the opportunity to acquire additional assets or businesses, which could limit our ability to grow and could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. Neither Anadarko nor WGP is prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In addition, in the future, Anadarko or WGP may acquire, construct or dispose of additional midstream or other assets and may be presented with new business opportunities, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to participate in such transactions. Moreover, while Anadarko may offer us the opportunity to buy additional assets from it, it is under no contractual obligation to do so and we are unable to predict whether or when such acquisitions might be completed.. Cost reimbursements due to Anadarko and our general partner for services provided to us or on our behalf are substantial and reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The amount and timing of such reimbursements are determined by our general partner.. Prior to making distributions on our common units, we reimburse Anadarko, which controls our general partner, and its affiliates for expenses they incur on our behalf as determined by our general partner pursuant to the omnibus agreement. These expenses include all costs incurred by Anadarko and our general partner in managing and operating us, as well as the reimbursement of incremental general and administrative expenses we incur as a result of being a publicly traded partnership. Our partnership agreement provides that Anadarko will determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to us. Our general partner may, in good faith, significantly increase the amount of reimbursable general and administrative expenses in the future and any decision to do so would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders.. If you are not an Eligible Holder, you may not receive distributions or allocations of income or loss on your common units and your common units will be subject to redemption.. We have adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who may own our common units. Eligible Holders are U.S. individuals or entities subject to U.S. federal income taxation on the income generated by us or entities not subject to U.S. federal income taxation on the income generated by us, so long as all of the entity's owners are U.S. individuals or entities subject to such taxation. If you are not an Eligible Holder, our general partner may elect not to make distributions or allocate income or loss on your units and you run the risk of having your units redeemed by us at the lower of your purchase price cost and the then-current market price. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner.. 62. Table of Contents. Our general partner's liability regarding our obligations is limited.. Our general partner has included provisions in its and our contractual arrangements that limit its liability so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets, and not against our general partner or its assets. Our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our general partner. Our partnership agreement provides that any action taken by our general partner to limit its liability is not a breach of our general partner's duties, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders.. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions.. We expect that we will continue to distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders and will continue to rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow.. In addition, because we distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per-unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement, the indenture governing the Notes or the RCF on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, would impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders.. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner's fiduciary duties to holders of our common units.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that modify and reduce the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, or otherwise free of fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Examples of decisions that our general partner may make in its individual capacity include the following:. • how to allocate corporate opportunities among us and its affiliates;. • whether to exercise its limited call right;. • how to exercise its voting rights with respect to the units it owns;. • whether to exercise its registration rights;. • whether to elect to reset target distribution levels; and. • whether to consent to any merger or consolidation of the Partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement.. By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder agrees to become bound by the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above.. 63. Table of Contents. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement:. • provides that whenever our general partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our general partner, our general partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, and will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity;. • provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as such decisions are made in good faith, meaning that it believed that the decision was in the best interest of the Partnership;. • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or their assignees resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and. • provides that our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement or its duties to us or our unitholders if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is any of the following:. (a) approved by the Special Committee of the Board of Directors, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval;. (b) approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner and its affiliates;. (c) on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties; or. (d) fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us.. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our general partner must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the Special Committee and the Board of Directors determines that the resolution or course of action taken with respect to the affiliate transaction or conflict of interest satisfies either of the standards set forth in subclauses (c) and (d) above, then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, the Board of Directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the Partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption.. Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue Class B and general partner units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its IDRs, without the approval of the Special Committee of its Board of Directors or the holders of our common units. This could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units.. Our general partner has the right to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution.. 64. Table of Contents. If our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of Class B units and general partner units. The Class B units will be entitled to the same cash distributions per unit as our common units and will be convertible into an equal number of common units. The number of Class B units to be issued to our general partner will be equal to that number of common units which would have entitled their holder to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions to our general partner on the IDRs in the prior two quarters. Our general partner will be issued the number of general partner units necessary to maintain its interest in us that existed immediately prior to the reset election. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. It is possible, however, that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its IDRs and may, therefore, desire to be issued Class B units, which are entitled to distributions on the same priority as our common units, rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders would have otherwise received had we not issued new Class B units and general partner units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels.. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders have no right on an annual or ongoing basis to elect our general partner or its Board of Directors. The Board of Directors is chosen by Anadarko (through its control of WGP). Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management.. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our general partner without its consent.. Unitholders are currently unable to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates currently own a sufficient percentage of the outstanding units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding units (including general partner units, common units and Class C units (on an as-converted basis)) voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. As of February 12, 2018, WGP owned a 29.8% limited partner interest in us. Other subsidiaries of Anadarko separately owned an aggregate 9.1% limited partner interest in us, consisting of common and Class C units. As such, Anadarko has the ability to prevent the removal of our general partner.. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of certain unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units.. Unitholders' voting rights are restricted by a provision of our partnership agreement providing that any person or group that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees, the purchasers of the Series A Preferred units (but only with respect to the common units such purchasers received upon conversion of the Series A Preferred units), and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the Board of Directors, cannot vote on any matter.. 65. Table of Contents. Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our general partner may transfer all, but not less than all, of its general partner interest to a third party in connection with a merger or consolidation or the transfer of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. On or after June 30, 2018, such transfer may be effected in whole or in part without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of (i) WGP to transfer all or a portion of its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party, or (ii) Anadarko to transfer all or a portion of its ownership interest in WGP and/or WGP's general partner to a third party. Additionally, in March 2016, WGP entered into a secured credit facility under which it has pledged, among other things, its entire interest in our general partner. If WGP were to default, the lenders party to this facility could foreclose upon the interest and take control of our general partner. Any new owner of our general partner or WGP's general partner, as the case may be, would then be in a position to replace the Board of Directors and officers of our general partner with its own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions made by the Board of Directors and officers.. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute existing ownership interests.. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:. • our existing unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;. • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease;. • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase;. • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and. • the market price of the common units may decline.. WGP or affiliates may sell units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units.. As of February 12, 2018, WGP held 50,132,046 common units and other subsidiaries of Anadarko held 2,011,380 common units and 13,243,883 Class C units. Additionally, the Class C units are entitled to receive distributions in the form of additional Class C units, which will increase the number of our common and Class C units owned by affiliates over time. The sale of any or all of these units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market on which common units are traded.. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require existing unitholders to sell their units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price that is not less than their then-current market price. As a result, existing unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Existing unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. As of February 12, 2018, WGP owned a 29.8% limited partner interest in us, and other subsidiaries of Anadarko held an aggregate 9.1% limited partner interest in us, consisting of common and Class C units.. 66. Table of Contents. Unitholders' liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business.. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. A unitholder could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if that unitholder were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that:. • we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state's partnership statute; or. • such unitholder's right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute \"control\" of our business.. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them.. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable both for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that were known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for those obligations that were unknown if the liabilities could have been determined from the partnership agreement. Neither liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest nor liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. If we are deemed to be an \"investment company\" under the Investment Company Act of 1940, it would adversely affect the price of our common units and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our assets include, among other items, a $260.0 million note receivable from Anadarko. If this note receivable together with a sufficient amount of our other assets are deemed to be \"investment securities,\" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the \"Investment Company Act\"), we would either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, obtain exemptive relief from the SEC or modify our organizational structure or contract rights so as to fall outside of the definition of an investment company. Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property from or to our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require us to add additional directors who are independent of us or our affiliates. The occurrence of some or all of these events would adversely affect the price of our common units and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Moreover, treatment of us as an investment company would prevent our qualification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, in which case we would be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. As a result, we would pay federal, and possibly state, income taxes on our taxable income at the corporate tax rates, distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions and none of our income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to our unitholders. If we were to be taxed as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as an investment company would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flows and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. 67. Table of Contents. The market price of our common units could be volatile due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control.. The market price of our common units could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including the following:. • changes in investor or analyst estimates of Anadarko's and our financial performance or our future distribution growth;. • the public's reaction to Anadarko's or our press releases, announcements and filings with the SEC;. • legislative or regulatory changes affecting our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes;. • fluctuations in broader securities market prices and volumes, particularly among securities of midstream companies and securities of publicly traded limited partnerships;. • changes in market valuations of similar companies;. • departures of key personnel;. • commencement of or involvement in litigation;. • variations in our quarterly results of operations or those of other midstream companies;. • variations in the amount of our quarterly cash distributions;. • future issuances and sales of our common units; and. • changes in general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the midstream industry.. In recent years, the capital markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Future market fluctuations may result in a lower price of our common units.. 68. Table of Contents. TAX RISKS TO COMMON UNITHOLDERS. Our taxation as a flow-through entity depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or if we were to become subject to material additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless it satisfies a \"qualifying income\" requirement and is not treated as an investment company. Based on our current operations, we believe that we satisfy the qualifying income requirement, and we are not treated as an investment company. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement, being treated as an investment company, a change in our business activities, or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is 21% for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flows and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. At the state level, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income or franchise taxes, or other forms of taxation. For example, we are required to pay Texas margin tax on our gross income apportioned to Texas. Imposition of a similar tax on us in other jurisdictions to which we may expand our operations could substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes or differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. From time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. Although there is no current legislative proposal, a prior legislative proposal would have eliminated the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly traded partnerships as corporations, upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. In addition, on January 24, 2017, final regulations regarding which activities give rise to qualifying income within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Code (the \"Final Regulations\") were published in the Federal Register. The Final Regulations are effective as of January 19, 2017, and apply to taxable years beginning on or after January 19, 2017. We do not believe the Final Regulations affect our ability to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. However, any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any similar or future legislative changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. You are urged to consult with your own tax advisor with respect to the status of regulatory and administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on your investment in our common units.. 69. Table of Contents. If the IRS were to contest the federal income tax positions we take, it may adversely impact the market for our common units, and the costs of any such contest would reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to the pricing of our related party agreements with Anadarko or our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take, and a court may not agree with some or all of those positions. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. Moreover, the costs of any contest with the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced. In addition, our current and former unitholders may be required to indemnify us for any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments that were paid on such unitholders' behalf.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments directly from us. To the extent possible under the new rules, our general partner may elect to either pay the taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly to the IRS or, if we are eligible, issue a revised information statement to each unitholder and former unitholder with respect to an audited and adjusted return. Although our general partner may elect to have our unitholders and former unitholders take such audit adjustment into account and pay any resulting taxes (including applicable penalties or interest) in accordance with their respective interests in us during the tax year under audit, there can be no assurance that such election will be practical, permissible or effective in all circumstances. As a result, our current unitholders may bear some or all of the tax liability resulting from such audit adjustment, even if such unitholders did not own units in us during the tax year under audit. If, as a result of any such audit adjustment, we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced and our current and former unitholders may be required to indemnify us for any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments that were paid on such unitholders' behalf. These rules are not applicable for tax years beginning on or prior to December 31, 2017.. Our unitholders are required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us.. Our unitholders are required to pay any U.S. federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. For example, if we sell assets and use the proceeds to repay existing debt or fund capital expenditures, unitholders may be allocated taxable income and gain resulting from the sale, and our cash available for distribution would not increase. Similarly, taking advantage of opportunities to reduce our existing debt, such as debt exchanges, debt repurchases, or modifications of our existing debt could result in \"cancellation of indebtedness income\" being allocated to our unitholders as taxable income without any increase in our cash available for distribution. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income.. 70. Table of Contents. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.. If a unitholder sells common units, the unitholder will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and that unitholder's tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of a unitholder's allocable share of our net taxable income result in a decrease in that unitholder's tax basis in its common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units sold will, in effect, become taxable income to that unitholder, if that unitholder sells such units at a price greater than that unitholder's tax basis in those units, even if the price received is less than their original cost. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if they sell their units, unitholders may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale.. A substantial portion of the amount realized from a unitholder's sale of units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income to the unitholder due to potential recapture of items, including depreciation recapture. Thus, a unitholder may recognize both ordinary income and capital loss from the sale of units if the amount realized on the sale is less than the unitholder's adjusted basis in the units. Net capital loss may only offset capital gains and, in the case of individuals, up to $3,000 of ordinary income per year. In the taxable period in which a unitholder sells units, the unitholder may recognize ordinary income from our allocations of income and gain prior to the sale and from recapture items, which generally cannot be offset by any capital loss recognized upon the sale of units.. Tax-exempt entities face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in our common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (or \"IRAs\") raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Further, with respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, a tax-exempt entity with more than one unrelated trade or business (including by attribution from investment in a partnership such as ours that is engaged in one or more unrelated trades or businesses) is required to compute the unrelated business taxable income of such tax-exempt entity separately with respect to each such trade or business (including for purposes of determining any net operating loss deduction). As a result, for years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may not be possible for tax-exempt entities to utilize losses from an investment in us to offset unrelated business taxable income from another unrelated trade or business and vice versa. Tax-exempt entities should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. Non-U.S. unitholders will be subject to U.S. taxes and withholding with respect to their income and gain from owning our units.. Non-U.S. unitholders are generally taxed and subject to income tax filing requirements by the United States on income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business (\"effectively connected income\"). Income allocated to our unitholders and any gain from the sale of our units will generally be considered to be \"effectively connected\" with a U.S. trade or business. As a result, distributions to a non-U.S. unitholder are subject to withholding at the highest applicable effective tax rate and a non-U.S. unitholder who sells or otherwise disposes of a unit is also subject to U.S. federal income tax on the gain realized from the sale or disposition of that unit.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, enacted on December 22, 2017, and applicable to years beginning after December 31, 2017, imposes a withholding obligation of 10% of the amount realized upon a non-U.S. unitholder's sale or exchange of an interest in a partnership that is engaged in a U.S. trade or business. However, due to challenges of administering a withholding obligation applicable to open market trading and other complications, the IRS has temporarily suspended the application of this withholding rule to open market transfers of interests in publicly traded partnerships pending promulgation of regulations or other guidance that resolves the challenges. It is not clear if or when such regulations or other guidance will be issued. Non-U.S. unitholders should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. 71. Table of Contents. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the common units actually purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we have adopted certain methods of allocating depreciation and amortization deductions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to the use of these methods could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from any sale of common units and could negatively impact the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to unitholders' tax returns.. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month (the \"Allocation Date\"), instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. Similarly, we generally allocate certain deductions for depreciation of capital additions, gain or loss realized on a sale or other disposition of our assets and, in the discretion of the general partner, any other extraordinary item of income, gain, loss or deduction based upon ownership on the Allocation Date. Treasury Regulations allow a similar monthly simplifying convention, but such regulations do not specifically authorize all aspects of our proration method. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. A unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of common units) may be considered to have disposed of those common units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because there are no specific rules governing the federal income tax consequences of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered to have disposed of the loaned units. In that case, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a securities loan are urged to consult a tax advisor to determine whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their common units.. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining a unitholder's allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. The IRS may challenge these methodologies or the resulting allocations, which could adversely affect the value of our common units.. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, we must routinely determine the fair market value of our assets. Although we may, from time to time, consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair market value estimates using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our assets. The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the timing or amount of taxable income or loss allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders' sale of our common units and could negatively impact the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. 72. Table of Contents. Our unitholders are subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units.. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, our unitholders are subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states or foreign jurisdictions that impose a personal income tax. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all U.S. federal, foreign, state and local tax returns."
