[1] "Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS. We are subject to certain risks and events that, if one or more occur, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock. In evaluating us, our business and a potential investment in our securities, you should consider the following risk factors and the other information presented in this report, as well as the other reports and registration statements we file from time to time with the SEC. The risks addressed below are not the only ones. 16. Table of Contents. we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial could also adversely impact our business in the future.. We May Fail to Realize the Anticipated Benefits of the Combination. The success of the Combination will depend on, among other things, our ability to combine the RockTenn and MWV businesses in a manner that facilitates growth opportunities, realizes anticipated synergies and achieves the identified projected cost savings and revenue growth trends. In connection with the Combination, we set a $1.0 billion run rate synergy and performance improvement target, before inflation, to be realized by June 30, 2018. At September 30, 2017, we had achieved a run rate of $840 million. We expected, and continue to expect, to (a) benefit from operational synergies resulting from the consolidation of capabilities and the elimination of redundancies, as well as greater efficiencies from increased scale and market integration and (b) realize revenue synergies through an expanded and complementary product offering and increased geographic reach. However, we must successfully combine the RockTenn and MWV businesses in a manner that permits these cost savings and synergies to be realized. In addition, we must achieve the anticipated cost savings and synergies without adversely affecting current revenues and investments in future growth.. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Combination is subject to a number of uncertainties, including market conditions, risks related to our businesses and whether we consolidate certain businesses and functions of RockTenn and MWV in an efficient, effective and timely manner. In particular, we may face significant challenges integrating the companies' technologies, organizations, procedures, policies and operations, addressing differences in their business cultures and retaining key personnel. The integration may also be more difficult, complex, costly and time consuming than we expect, and the integration process and other disruptions resulting from the Combination may disrupt ongoing businesses or cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our relationships with employees, suppliers, customers and others with whom RockTenn and MWV had business or other dealings, or otherwise limit our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Combination.. If we are not able to successfully combine the RockTenn and MWV businesses within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected cost savings and synergies and other benefits of the Combination may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, the combined businesses may not perform as expected, management's time and energy may be diverted, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock, could be adversely affected.. We May Experience Pricing Variability. Our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue experiencing, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions. The length and magnitude of these cycles have varied over time and by product. Prices for our products are driven by many factors, including general economic conditions, demand for our products and competitive conditions in the industries within which we compete, and we have little influence over the timing and extent of price changes, which may be unpredictable and volatile. If supply exceeds demand, prices for our products could decline, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock could be adversely affected. Further, certain published indices contribute to the setting of selling prices for some of our products. Future changes in how these indices are established or maintained could adversely impact the selling prices for these products.. Our Earnings Are Highly Dependent on Volumes. Because our operations generally have high fixed operating cost components, our earnings are highly dependent on volumes, which tend to fluctuate. These fluctuations make it difficult to predict our financial results with any degree of certainty. Any failure to maintain volumes may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.. We May Face Increased Costs or Inadequate Availability of Raw Materials, Energy and Transportation. We rely heavily on the use of certain raw materials, energy sources and third-party companies to transport our goods.. The costs of recovered paper and virgin fiber, the principal externally sourced raw materials for our mills, are subject to pricing variability due to market and industry conditions. Increasing demand for products packaged in 100% recycled paper, greater demand for U.S.-sourced recovered paper by Asian-based paper manufacturers and the shift by manufacturers of virgin paperboard, tissue, newsprint and corrugated packaging to the production of products with some recycled paper content have and may continue to increase demand for recovered paper, which may result in cost increases. Certain published indices contribute to price setting. 17. Table of Contents. for some of our raw materials. Future changes in how these indices are established or maintained could adversely impact the pricing of these raw materials.. The cost of natural gas, which we use in many of our manufacturing operations, including many of our mills, and other energy costs (including energy generated by burning natural gas, fuel oil, biomass and coal) has at times fluctuated significantly. High energy costs could increase our operating costs and make our products less competitive compared to similar or alternative products offered by competitors.. We distribute our products primarily by truck and rail, although we also distribute some of our products by cargo ship. The reduced availability of trucks, rail cars or cargo ships could negatively impact our ability to distribute our products in a timely manner, and high transportation costs could make our products less competitive compared to similar or alternative products offered by competitors.. Because all of our businesses operate in highly competitive industry segments, we may not be able to recoup past or future increases in the cost of raw materials, energy or transportation through price increases for our products. The failure to obtain raw materials, energy or transportation services at reasonable market prices (or the failure to pass on price increases to our customers) or a reduction in the availability of raw materials, energy or transportation services due to increased demand, significant changes in climate or weather conditions, or other factors could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.. We Face Intense Competition. We compete in industries that are highly competitive, and no single company dominates an industry. Our competitors include large and small, vertically integrated companies and numerous smaller non-integrated companies. We generally compete with companies operating in North America, although we have operations spanning North America, South America, Europe, Asia and Australia. Competition from domestic or non-U.S. lower cost or more innovative manufacturers could adversely impact our sales volumes and pricing, as could other actions taken by our competitors, including reducing the prices of their products, improving the quality of their products or enhancing their marketing or sales activities. In addition, changes within these industries, including the consolidation of our competitors and our customers, have occurred and may continue to occur, which may adversely affect our competitiveness. To the extent our competitors are more successful than we are with respect to any key competitive factor, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock, could be adversely affected.. Our products also compete, to some extent, with various other packaging materials, including products made of paper, plastics, wood and various types of metal. Customer shifts away from paperboard and containerboard packaging to packaging made from other materials could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.. We May Be Unsuccessful in Making and Integrating Mergers, Acquisitions and Investments and Completing Divestitures. We have completed a number of mergers, acquisitions, investments and divestitures in recent years, including the Combination, our investment in Grupo Gondi, the Separation, the HH&B Sale and the MPS Acquisition, and we may acquire, invest in or sell, or enter into joint ventures with additional companies. We may not be able to identify suitable targets or purchasers or successfully complete suitable transactions in the future and completed transactions may not be successful. These transactions create risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with:. • disrupting our ongoing business, including distracting management from our existing businesses;. • integrating acquired businesses and personnel into our business;. • working with partners or other ownership structures with shared decision-making authority;. • obtaining and verifying relevant information regarding a business prior to the consummation of the transaction, including the identification and assessment of liabilities, claims or other circumstances that could result in litigation or regulatory risk exposure;. • obtaining required regulatory approvals and/or financing on favorable terms;. • retaining key employees, contractual relationships or customers;. • the potential impairment of tangible and intangible assets and goodwill;. • the additional operating losses and expenses of businesses we acquire or in which we invest;. • implementing controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies we acquire;. • the dilution of interests of holders of our Common Stock through the issuance of equity securities; and. 18. Table of Contents. • integrating operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries.. Further, the benefits we expect to achieve as a result of these transactions depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated growth opportunities, cost savings and synergies. Our success in realizing these opportunities and synergies and the timing of realizing them depend on the successful integration of the acquired businesses and operations with our business and operations. Even if we are able to integrate these businesses and operations successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of the growth opportunities and synergies we expected within the anticipated timeframe, or at all. Accordingly, the benefits from these acquisitions may be offset by unanticipated costs or delays in integrating the acquired companies.. Mergers, acquisitions and investments may not be successful and may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.. We May Be Adversely Affected by U.S. and Worldwide Economic and Financial Market Conditions, and Social and Political Change. Our businesses may be affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control, such as general economic and business conditions; changes in tax laws or tax rates and conditions in the financial services markets, including counterparty risk, insurance carrier risk, rising interest rates, inflation, deflation, fluctuations in the value of local currency versus the U.S. dollar and the impact of a stronger U.S. dollar; financial uncertainties in our major international markets, including uncertainties surrounding the United Kingdom's impending withdrawal from the European Union, commonly referred to as \"Brexit\"; social and political change impacting matters such as environmental regulations and trade policies; sluggish or uneven recovery, government deficit reduction and other austerity measures in specific countries or regions, or in the various industries in which we operate; or other factors, each of which may adversely impact our ability to compete. Macro-economic challenges, including conditions in financial and capital markets and levels of unemployment, and the ability of the U.S. and other countries to address their rising debt levels may continue to put pressure on the economy or lead to changes in tax laws or tax rates that may have a material impact on our future cash taxes, effective tax rate or deferred tax assets and liabilities. Adverse developments in the U.S. and global economy, including locations such as Europe, Brazil, Mexico, India and China, could adversely affect the demand for our products, our revenues and our manufacturing costs. We are not able to predict with certainty economic and financial market conditions, and social and political change, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock, could be adversely affected by adverse market conditions and social and political change.. Our Joint Ventures May Limit Our Flexibility with Respect to These Jointly Owned Investments. We have invested in joint ventures when circumstances warranted the use of these structures, and we may form additional joint ventures in the future. Our participation in joint ventures is subject to risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with:. • shared decision-making, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve impasses or potential disputes;. • maintaining good relationships with our partners, which could limit our future growth potential;. • conflict of interest issues if our partners have competing interests;. • investment or operational goals that conflict with our partners' goals, including the timing, terms and strategies for investments or future growth opportunities;. • our partners' ability to fund their share of required capital contributions or to otherwise fulfill their obligations as partners, which may require us to infuse our own capital into these ventures on behalf of the related partner despite other competing uses for capital; and. • obtaining consents from our partners for any sale or other disposition of our interest in a joint venture or underlying assets of the joint venture.. Our Investment in Grupo Gondi May Require Us to Utilize Our Cash Flow or Incur Additional Indebtedness to Satisfy Certain Payment Obligations. In connection with our investment in the joint venture with Grupo Gondi, we entered into an option agreement pursuant to which we and certain shareholders of Grupo Gondi agreed to future put and call options with respect to the equity interests in the joint venture held by each party. These put and call arrangements may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to satisfy our payment obligations in respect of these arrangements, which may reduce the amount of funds available for our operations, capital expenditures and corporate development activities. Similarly, we may be required to incur additional indebtedness to satisfy our payment obligations in respect of these arrangements.. 19. Table of Contents. We are Exposed to Risks Related to International Sales and Operations. We predominately operate in U.S. markets, but derived 17.6% of our net sales in fiscal 2017 from outside the U.S. through international operations or exports to foreign customers, some of which were transacted in U.S. dollars. We are exposed to risks of operating in many countries, including, but not limited to, risks associated with:. • the difficulties with and costs of complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations;. • unexpected changes in political or regulatory environments; earnings and cash flows that may be subject to tax withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions;. • repatriating cash from foreign countries to the U.S.;. • political and economic instability;. • import and export restrictions and other trade barriers;. • maintaining overseas subsidiaries and managing international operations;. • obtaining approval for significant transactions;. • government limitations on foreign ownership;. • government takeovers or nationalizations of business;. • government mandated price controls;. • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and. • transfer pricing.. Any one or more of these risks could adversely affect our international operations and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.. The Future Success of our International Operations Could be Adversely Affected by Violations or Alleged Violations of the Anti-Bribery Laws. The FCPA and local anti-bribery laws, including those in Brazil, Mexico and India (where we maintain operations directly or through a joint venture), prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of influencing official decisions. Our policies mandate compliance with anti-bribery laws, including the FCPA. Our internal control policies and procedures, or those of our vendors, may not adequately protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed or alleged to have been committed by our employees, agents or vendors. Any such allegations could lead to civil or criminal monetary and non-monetary penalties and/or could damage our reputation. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.. We Depend on Certain Large Customers. Our corrugated packaging segment and consumer packaging segment each have large customers, the loss of which could adversely affect the segment's sales and, depending on the significance of the loss, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock. In particular, because our businesses operate in highly competitive industry segments, we regularly bid for new business or for the renewal of existing business. The loss of business from our larger customers, or the renewal of business on less favorable terms, may adversely impact our financial results.. We May Fail to Anticipate Trends That Would Enable Us to Offer Products That Respond to Changing Customer Preferences. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to offer differentiated solutions, and we must continually develop and introduce new products and services in a timely manner to keep pace with technological and regulatory developments and achieve customer acceptance. The services and products we offer customers may not meet their needs as their business models evolve, or our customers may decide to decrease or use alternative materials for their product packaging or forego the packaging of certain products entirely. Regulatory developments can also significantly alter the market for our solutions. For example, a move to electronic distribution of disclaimers and other paperless regimes could negatively impact our healthcare inserts and labels businesses. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to identify and respond promptly to changes in customer preferences, expectations and needs. Our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock, could be adversely affected if we fail to anticipate trends that would enable us to offer products that respond to changing customer preferences.. 20. Table of Contents. We May Produce Faulty or Contaminated Products Due to Failures in Quality Control Measures and Systems. We maintain quality control measures and systems to ensure the safety and quality of our products. The consequences of a product not meeting these standards could be severe. These consequences may include adverse effects on consumer health, litigation exposure, loss of market share and adverse financial impacts. If our products fail to meet our standards, we may be required to incur substantial costs in taking appropriate corrective action (up to and including recalling products from end consumers) and to reimburse customers and/or end consumers for losses that they suffer as a result of this failure. Customers and end consumers may seek to recover these losses through litigation and, under applicable legal rules, may succeed in any such claim despite there being no negligence or other fault on our part. Placing an unsafe product on the market, failing to notify the regulatory authorities of a safety issue, failing to take appropriate corrective action and failing to meet other regulatory requirements relating to product safety could lead to regulatory investigation, enforcement action and/or prosecution. Any product quality or safety issue may also result in adverse publicity, which may damage our reputation. Any of these results could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.. In certain contracts, we provide guarantees that our products are produced in accordance with customer specifications regarding the proper functioning of our products and the conformity of a product to the specific use defined by the customer. In addition, if the product contained in packaging manufactured by us is faulty or contaminated, the manufacturer of the product may allege that the packaging we provided caused the fault or contamination, even if the packaging complies with contractual specifications. If certain of our packaging fails to open properly or to preserve the integrity of its contents, we could face liability to our customers and to third parties for bodily injury or other tangible or intangible damages suffered as a result. Such liability, if it were to be established in relation to a sufficient volume of claims or to claims for sufficiently large amounts, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.. We May Incur Business Disruptions. The operations at our manufacturing facilities may be interrupted or impaired by various operating risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with:. • catastrophic events, such as fires, floods, explosions, natural disasters, severe weather, including hurricanes, or other similar occurrences;. • interruptions in the delivery of raw materials or other manufacturing inputs;. • adverse government regulations;. • equipment breakdowns or failures;. • unscheduled maintenance;. • information system failures;. • violations of our permit requirements or revocation of permits;. • releases of pollutants and hazardous substances to air, soil, surface water or ground water;. • shortages of equipment or spare parts; and. • labor disputes.. For example, in fiscal 2017, operations at a number of our facilities were interrupted by several hurricanes. We lost mill production at certain of these facilities and incurred damages, supply chain disruptions and increased input costs associated with these hurricanes.. The occurrence of any of the events noted above may impair our production capabilities and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.. Interest Rate Increases Could Impact Our Financial Condition. We maintain levels of fixed and floating rate debt that we consider prudent based on our cash flows (and other financial metrics) and our business outlook, and these levels may vary over time. Our floating rate debt exposes us to changes in interest rates. We utilize fixed rate debt and, from time to time, derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to interest rate risks. However, our financial risk management may not be successful in reducing the risks inherent in exposures to interest rate fluctuations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and the trading price of our Common Stock.. Downgrades in our Credit Ratings Could Increase our Borrowing Costs. Some of our outstanding indebtedness has received credit ratings from rating agencies. These ratings are limited in scope and do not purport to address all risks relating to an investment in those debt securities. Our credit ratings could change based on,. 21. Table of Contents. among other things, our results of operations and financial condition. These ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and they may be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency or placed on a so-called \"watch list\" for a possible downgrade or assigned a negative ratings outlook if, in any rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant. Actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade or have been assigned a negative outlook, would likely increase our borrowing costs, which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock. If a downgrade or negative outlook were to occur, it could impact our ability to access the capital markets to raise debt and/or increase the cost thereof. In addition, while our credit ratings are important to us, we may take actions and otherwise operate our business in a manner that adversely affects our credit ratings.. We are Subject to Extensive and Costly Safety and Environmental Laws and Regulations. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign safety and environmental laws and regulations, including those regulating the discharge, storage, handling and disposal of a variety of substances, the chemicals used in our operations, air emissions and water discharges from our facilities, the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater, the environmental impacts of our finished products and the health and safety of our employees.. We regularly make capital expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable safety and environmental laws and regulations; however, these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent. Consequently, our compliance costs could increase materially, which could materially adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, we cannot currently assess the impact of future changes in governmental regulations or governments' enforcement practices will have on our operations or capital expenditure requirements. For example, our manufacturing operations consume significant amounts of energy, and we may in the future incur additional or increased capital and operating costs from changes due to increased climate-related and other environmental regulations.. In addition to environmental regulations, we are responsible for conducting environmental investigation and cleanup activities at current and formerly owned sites. We also have been identified as a PRP at various third-party disposal sites. Any liability or damages we may incur in connection with these or other sites at which we may be identified in the future as a PRP or in connection with safety or environmental requirements, including capital investments or business disruptions associated with regulatory compliance, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.. Our Capital Expenditures May Not Achieve the Desired Outcomes or May Be Achieved at a Higher Cost than Anticipated. We regularly make capital expenditures. Many of our projects are complex, costly and/or implemented over an extended period of time. Consequently, our capital expenditures could be higher than we anticipated, we may experience unanticipated business disruptions and/or we may not achieve the desired benefits from these projects, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock. In addition, disputes between us and contractors who are involved with implementing projects could lead to time-consuming and costly litigation.. We May Incur Additional Restructuring Costs and May Not Realize Expected Benefits from Restructuring. We have previously restructured portions of our operations, and we may engage in future restructuring initiatives. Because we are not able to predict with certainty market conditions, including changes in the supply and demand for our products, the loss of large customers, the selling prices for our products, or the cost of manufacturing our products, we also may not be able to predict with certainty the appropriate time to undertake restructurings. The cash and non-cash costs associated with these activities will vary depending upon the type of facility impacted, with the non-cash cost of a mill closure generally being more significant than that of a converting facility due to the higher level of investment. These activities may divert the attention of management, disrupt our operations and fail to achieve the intended cost and operations benefits.. 22. Table of Contents. We May Be Adversely Impacted By Work Stoppages and Other Labor Relations Matters. A significant number of our union employees are governed by CBAs. Expired contracts are in the process of renegotiation, and others expire within one year. We may not be able to successfully negotiate new union contracts without work stoppages or labor difficulties or renegotiate them on favorable terms. We have experienced work stoppages in the past and we may experience work stoppages in the future. If we are unable to successfully renegotiate the terms of any of these agreements or an industry association is unable to successfully negotiate a national agreement when it expires, or if we experience any extended interruption of operations at any of our facilities as a result of strikes or other work stoppages, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock, could be adversely affected.. In addition, our businesses rely on certain vendors, suppliers and other third parties that have union employees. Strikes or work stoppages at these vendors, suppliers and other third parties could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.. We May Incur Increased Employee Benefit Costs and Certain of Our Pension Plans Will Likely Require Additional Cash Contributions. Employee healthcare costs continue to rise. Our pension plan contribution and health care benefits costs depend on multiple factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. While the Plan is over funded, we expect to make future contributions primarily to our non-U.S. pension plans in the coming years in order to ensure that our funding levels remain adequate and meet regulatory requirements. The actual required amounts and timing of future cash contributions will be highly sensitive to changes in the applicable discount rates and returns on plan assets, and could also be impacted by future changes in the laws and regulations applicable to plan funding. Our pension plan assets are primarily made up of fixed income, equity and alternative investments. Fluctuations in the market performance of these assets and changes in interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension plan costs in future periods. Changes in assumptions regarding expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, our discount rate, expected compensation levels or mortality could also increase or decrease pension costs. These changes, along with turmoil in financial and capital markets, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.. We May Incur Withdrawal Liability and/or Increased Funding Requirements in Connection with the MEPPs in Which We Participate. We participate in several MEPPs that provide retirement benefits to certain union employees in accordance with various CBAs. Our contributions to a particular MEPP are established by the applicable CBAs; however, our required contributions may increase based on the declining funded status of an MEPP and legal requirements, such as those of the Pension Act, which require substantially underfunded MEPPs to implement a FIP or a RP to improve their funded status. Factors that could impact the funded status of a MEPP include, without limitation, a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other companies that currently contribute to these plans, the inability or failure of companies withdrawing from the plan to pay their withdrawal liability, low interest rates, changes in actuarial assumptions and/or lower than expected returns on pension fund assets.. We believe that certain of the MEPPs in which we participate, including PIUMPF, have material unfunded vested benefits. In the normal course of business, we evaluate our potential exposure to MEPPs, including with respect to potential withdrawal liabilities. We are considering withdrawing from one or more MEPPs. It is reasonably possible that we may incur significant withdrawal liabilities with respect to certain MEPPs in connection with such withdrawal(s). Our withdrawal liability for any particular MEPP would depend on the nature and timing of any triggering event and the extent of that MEPP's funding of vested benefits. In addition, we may be obligated to pay a share of a particular MEPP's accumulated funding deficiency as determined under the Pension Act. Due to the absence of specific information regarding the applicable funded status and other relevant information for each MEPP, we are unable to determine with certainty the exact amount of any withdrawal liability. However, based on available information, including the MEPP's latest available actuarial valuation reports and annual funding notices, we believe our withdrawal liability would be approximately $140 million to $200 million if we were to withdraw from all of the MEPPs in which we participate prior to the end of calendar 2017. The foregoing estimate assumes payment of the liabilities over 20 years discounted at 5% and excludes the potential impact of future mass withdrawals.. The impact of increased contributions, future funding obligations or future withdrawal liabilities may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock. See \"Note 15. Retirement Plans  -  Multiemployer Plans\" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.. 23. Table of Contents. We are Subject to Cyber-Security Risks, Including Related to Customer, Employee, Vendor or Other Company Data and Including in Connection with Integration of Acquired Businesses and Operations. We use information technologies to securely manage operations and various business functions. We rely on various technologies, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including reporting on our business and interacting with customers, vendors and employees. In addition, we collect and store certain data, including proprietary business information, and may have access to confidential or personal information in certain of our segments that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer-imposed controls. Our systems are subject to repeated attempts by third parties to access information or to disrupt our systems. Despite our security design and controls, and those of our third-party providers, we may become subject to system damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to any number of causes, including cyber-attacks, breaches, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures, systems failures, service providers, natural disasters or other catastrophic events. It is possible for such vulnerabilities to remain undetected for an extended period, up to and including several years. We may face other challenges and risks as we upgrade and standardize our information technology systems as part of our integration of acquired businesses and operations. We have contingency plans in place to prevent or mitigate the impact of these events, however, these events could result in operational disruptions or the misappropriation of sensitive data, and depending on their nature and scope, could lead to the compromise of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions and exposure to liability. Such disruptions or misappropriations and the resulting repercussions, including reputational damage and legal claims or proceedings, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.. We Depend On Our Ability to Develop and Successfully Introduce New Products and/or to Acquire and Retain Intellectual Property Rights. Our ability to develop and successfully market new products and to develop, acquire and/or retain necessary intellectual property rights is important to our continued success and competitive position. If we are unable to develop and successfully introduce new products, protect our existing intellectual property rights, or develop new rights or if others develop similar or improved technologies, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock, could be adversely affected.. We are Subject to Risks Associated with Monetizing our Land and Development Asset Portfolio. Our land and development segment has historically engaged in value-added real estate development activities in the Charleston, SC region, including obtaining entitlements and establishing joint ventures and other development-related arrangements. In fiscal 2016, we commenced an accelerated monetization strategy of our land and development asset portfolio that we expect to complete in fiscal 2018. Our ability to execute our plans may be affected by general economic conditions, including credit markets and interest rates, local real estate market conditions, including competition from sellers of land and real estate developers, and the impact of federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting land use, land use entitlements, land protection and zoning, among other factors. Any failure to execute our plans could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.. We are Subject to Risks Associated with the Relocation of Our Principal Offices. We are in the process of relocating our principal offices from Norcross, GA to Sandy Springs, GA and we expect to complete the relocation in the first half of fiscal 2018.  We may not complete the relocation during the expected timeframe and we may not effectively transition our workforce to the new location, in which case we could experience business disruption due to a loss of historical knowledge and a lack of business continuity. In addition, we may not realize the expected benefits of the relocation as a result of business disruption or other factors.. We May Fail to Attract, Motivate, Train and Retain Qualified Personnel, Including Key Personnel. Our ability to maintain or expand our business depends on our ability to attract, motivate, train and retain employees with the skills necessary to understand and adapt to the continuously developing needs of our customers. The increasing demand for qualified personnel makes it more difficult for us to attract and retain employees with requisite skill sets, particularly employees with specialized technical and trade experience. Changing demographics and labor work force trends also may result in a loss of knowledge and skills as experienced workers retire. If we fail to attract, motivate, train and retain qualified personnel, or if we experience excessive turnover, we may experience declining sales, manufacturing delays or other inefficiencies, increased. 24. Table of Contents. recruiting, training and relocation costs and other difficulties, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock may be adversely impacted.. In addition, we rely on key executive and management personnel to manage our business efficiently and effectively.  As our business has grown in size and geographic scope, we have relied on these individuals to manage increasingly complex projects, teams and operations, and to allocate resources to match the size and geographic scope of our business. The loss of any of our key personnel could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock may be adversely impacted.. The Separation Could Result in Substantial Tax Liability to Us and to Those of Our Stockholders Who Received Ingevity Stock at the Time of the Separation. We have received an opinion from outside tax counsel to the effect that the Separation qualifies as a transaction that is described in Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code. The opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Ingevity and us regarding the past and future conduct of each of the two companies' respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings prove to be incorrect or not satisfied, or if the IRS otherwise determines on audit that the Separation is taxable, our stockholders who received Ingevity stock at the time of the Separation and/or we may not be able to rely on the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. If the Separation is determined to be taxable, those of our stockholders who received Ingevity stock at the time of the Separation and/or we could be subject to a substantial tax liability. If the Separation is determined to be taxable to those of our stockholders who received Ingevity stock at the time of the Separation, each of those stockholders would generally be treated as having received a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the Ingevity shares received.. Even if the Separation otherwise qualifies as a tax-free transaction to those of our stockholders who received Ingevity stock at the time of the Separation, the distribution could be taxable to us in certain circumstances if future significant acquisitions of our stock or the stock of Ingevity are determined to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the Separation. In this event, the resulting tax liability would be substantial. In connection with the Separation, we entered into a tax matters agreement with Ingevity, pursuant to which Ingevity agreed (a) to not engage in certain transactions that could cause the Separation to be taxable to us and (b) to indemnify us for any tax liabilities resulting from such transactions. The indemnity from Ingevity may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities. Any tax liabilities resulting from the Separation or related transactions could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.. We May Be Exposed to Claims and Liabilities as a Result of the Separation. We entered into a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements with Ingevity to govern the Separation and the relationship of the two companies going forward. These agreements provide for specific indemnity and liability obligations and could lead to disputes between us and Ingevity. The indemnity rights we have against Ingevity under the agreements may not be sufficient to protect us. In addition, our indemnity obligations to Ingevity may be significant and these risks could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.. Item 1A. \"Risk Factors  -  We May Be Adversely Affected by U.S. and Worldwide Economic and Financial Market Conditions, and Social and Political Change\".. 53. Table of Contents"
