[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of those risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could suffer. The risks and uncertainties discussed below also include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements.. Risks Relating to Our Company. A significant portion of our revenues are related to the dollar amount of fuel purchased by our customers, and, as a result, volatility in fuel prices could have an adverse effect on our revenues.. Our customers in our Fleet Solutions segment primarily purchase fuel. Accordingly, a significant part of our revenue is dependent on fuel prices, which are prone to volatility.  As of December 31, 2017, management estimates that approximately 21 percent of our total revenues result from fees paid to us by fuel providers based on a negotiated percentage of the purchase price of fuel purchased by our customers. We estimate that during 2017, each one cent decline in average domestic fuel prices below average actual prices would result in approximately a $1.2 million decline in 2017 revenue. Therefore, extended declines in the price of fuel would have a material adverse effect on our total revenues. In the fourth quarter of 2014, we suspended our fuel price hedging program and as of the second quarter of 2016, we no longer had any remaining fuel hedging derivatives outstanding.  As a result, we are exposed to the full impact of fuel price declines and our net income is exposed to fuel price volatility unless and until a fuel price hedging program is reinstated.  If fuel prices decline, the lack of a hedge will negatively impact our revenue and income.. Fuel prices are dependent on many factors, all of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others:. • supply and demand for oil and gas, and expectations regarding supply and demand;. • speculative trading;. • actions by major oil exporting nations;. • level of U.S. oil production;. • advances in oil production technologies;. • political conditions in other oil-producing, gas-producing or supply-route countries, including revolution, insurgency, terrorism or war;. • refinery capacity;. • weather;. • the prices of foreign exports and the availability of alternate fuel sources;. • value of the U.S. dollar versus other major currencies;. • actions by members of Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other major oil-producing nations;. • implementation of fuel efficiency standards and the adoption by fleet customers of vehicles with greater fuel efficiency or alternative fuel sources;. • general worldwide economic conditions; and. • governmental regulations, taxes and tariffs.. Another component of our revenue stream is the late fees that our customers pay on past due balances.  As a result, a decrease in the price of fuel leads to a decline in the amount of late fees we earn from customers who fail to pay us timely.. A portion of our revenue in Europe is derived from the difference between the negotiated price of the fuel from the supplier and the price charged to the fleet customer. As a result, a contraction in these differences would reduce revenues and could adversely affect our operating results.. Revenue from our European Fleet business is derived from transactions where our revenue is tied to the difference between the negotiated price of the fuel from the supplier and the price charged to the fleet customer. The merchant's cost of fuel is dependent on several factors including, among others, the factors described above affecting fuel prices. We experience fuel-price related revenue contraction when the merchant's cost of fuel increases at a faster rate than the fuel. 18. Table of Contents. price we charge to our fleet customers, or the fuel-price we charge to our fleet customers decreases at a faster rate than the merchant's cost of fuel. Accordingly, we generate less revenue, which could adversely affect our operating results.. Changes in interchange fees could decrease our revenue.. A portion of our revenue is generated by network processing fees charged to merchants, known as interchange fees, associated with transactions processed using our cards. Interchange fee amounts associated with cards are affected by a number of factors, including regulatory limits and fee changes. In addition, interchange fees are the subject of intense legal and regulatory scrutiny and competitive pressures in the electronic payments industry.  For example, the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, which serves to limit interchange fees may restrict or otherwise impact the way we do business or limit our ability to charge certain fees to customers. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or the CFPB, is also engaged in rulemaking and regulation of the payments industry, in particular with respect to prepaid cards. On January 25, 2018, the CFPB issued a final rule amending several aspects of its prepaid accounts rule adopted in October 2016 and delayed the overall effective date for such prepaid accounts rule to April 1, 2019. The extensive nature of these regulations and the implementation dates for this additional rulemaking may result in additional compliance obligations and expense for our business and our customers. These factors could result in lower interchange fees generally in the future. Temporary or permanent decreases in the interchange fees associated with our card transactions, could adversely affect our business and operating results.. If we fail to adequately assess and monitor credit risks posed by our customers, we could experience an increase in credit loss.. We are subject to credit risk posed by our customers, many of which are small-to mid-sized businesses. Because we often fund a customer's entire receivable while our revenue is generated from only a small percentage of that amount, our risk of loss is amplified by the customer's failure to pay.  We use various formulas and models to screen potential customers and establish appropriate credit limits, but these formulas and models cannot eliminate all potential credit risks and may not prevent us from approving applications that are fraudulently completed. Moreover, businesses that are good credit risks at the time of application may deteriorate over time and we may fail to detect such changes. In addition, changes to our policies on the types and profiles of businesses to which we extend credit could also have an adverse impact on our credit losses. In times of economic slowdown, the number of our customers who default on payments owed to us tends to increase. If we fail to adequately manage our credit risks, our provision for credit losses on the income statement could be significantly higher.. We may incur substantial losses due to fraudulent use of our payment cards, payment systems or vouchers.. Under certain circumstances, we may bear the risk of substantial losses due to fraudulent use of our payment cards or payment systems.  We are also subject to risk from fraudulent acts of employees or contractors.  Although we maintain insurance for certain types of losses, the coverage may be insufficient or limited and may not fully protect against those losses. Additionally, criminals use sophisticated illegal activities to target us, including \"skimming\", counterfeit cards and accounts, and identity theft. A single, significant incident or a series of incidents of fraud or theft could lead to, among other things, some or all of the following:. • increased overall level of fraud;. • direct financial losses as a result of fraudulent activity;. • reputational harm;. • decreased desirability of our services;. • greater regulation;. • increased compliance costs;. • imposition of regulatory sanctions; or. • significant monetary fines.. All of the above could have a material adverse effect on our operations, business success, financial condition and results of operations. Our bad debt expense, inclusive of fraud losses, was $61.1 million in 2017 compared to $33.3 million in 2016.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our financial results.. We earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Such currencies include, but are not limited to, the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar, the Euro, British Pound sterling, New Zealand dollar and Brazilian Real. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in. 19. Table of Contents. effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on foreign currency transactions as well as the re-measurement of our cash, receivable and payable balances that are denominated in foreign currencies, are recorded directly in the consolidated statements of income. In addition, gains and losses associated with the Company's foreign currency exchange derivatives are recorded on the consolidated statements of income.. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies that we use to conduct our business will affect our revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in those currencies. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly fluctuations in the U.S. dollar against other currencies, may materially affect our financial results.. Our exposure to counterparty risk could create an adverse effect on our financial condition.. We engage in a number of transactions where counterparty risk is a relevant factor, including transactions with customers, derivatives counterparties and those businesses we work with to provide services, among others. These risks are dependent upon market conditions and also the real and perceived viability of the counterparty. The failure or perceived weakness of any of our counterparties has the potential to expose us to risk of loss in certain situations. Certain contracts and arrangements that we enter into with counterparties may provide us with indemnification clauses to protect us from financial loss. If the counterparty fails to, or is unable to fulfill these indemnification clauses, we may incur losses as well as harm to our reputation.. We have substantial indebtedness, which may materially and adversely affect our financial flexibility and our ability to meet our debt service obligations.. Our 2016 Credit Agreement, as amended on January 17, 2018, provides for a tranche A term loan facility in an amount equal to $455 million that matures on July 1, 2021 (of which $421 million remained outstanding at the time of the amendment), a tranche B term loan facility in an amount equal to $1,335 million that matures on July 1, 2023 and a $570 million secured revolving credit facility, with a $250 million sublimit for letters of credit and a $20 million sublimit for swingline loans, that terminates on July 1, 2021. Prior to maturity, amounts under the credit facility will be reduced by mandatory amortization payments and may be reduced by the mandatory prepayment of our tranche B term loan facility out of a certain portion of our excess cash or by optional prepayments. In addition to the 2016 Credit Agreement, our indebtedness consists of our 4.750 percent senior notes in the principal amount of $400 million due 2023 (the \"Notes\"), deposits issued by WEX Bank and other liabilities outstanding. Our indebtedness could, among other things:. •  require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to repaying our indebtedness, thus reducing the amount of funds available for other general corporate purposes; •  limit our ability to borrow additional funds necessary for working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; •  increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic or industry conditions; and •  limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet our indebtedness obligations, including any of our obligations under the Notes. In addition, we may need to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future to fund our operations or certain strategic objectives. However, we may not be able to obtain the additional financing necessary for these purposes.. In addition, under the 2016 Credit Agreement, unless otherwise agreed by the requisite lenders under the revolving credit facility, we are required to remain in compliance with a consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest charge ratio, measured quarterly, of no less than 3.25 to 1.00; and a consolidated funded indebtedness (excluding up to $350 million of consolidated funded indebtedness due to permitted securitization transactions and excluding the amount of consolidated funded indebtedness constituting the non-recourse portion of permitted factoring transactions) to consolidated EBITDA ratio,measured quarterly, of no more than 5.00 to 1.00, which ratio shall step down to 4.50 to 1.00 at December 31, 2018 and 4.00 to 1.00 at December 31, 2019.  In addition, in the event of an acquisition meeting certain specified criteria, the consolidated leverage ratio shall be permanently increased by 0.50:1.00.  The 2016 Credit Agreement also contains various affirmative and negative covenants that, subject to certain customary exceptions, restrict our ability to, among other things, create liens over our property, incur additional indebtedness, enter into sale and lease-back transactions, make loans, advances or other investments, make non-ordinary course asset sales, declare or pay dividends or make other distributions with respect to equity interests, change the nature of our business, enter into certain agreements which restrict our ability to pay dividends or other distributions or create liens on our property, transact business with affiliates and/or merge or. 20. Table of Contents. consolidate with any other person. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. Failure to comply with the financial covenants or any other non-financial or restrictive covenant in our 2016 Credit Agreement could create a default. Upon a default, our lenders could accelerate the indebtedness under the facilities (except only the requisite lenders under the revolving credit facility and the tranche A term loan facility may accelerate the revolving credit facility due to a breach of the financial covenants), foreclose against their collateral or seek other remedies, which could trigger a default under the Notes and would jeopardize our ability to continue our current operations.. Despite our substantial indebtedness, we may still be able to incur more debt, intensifying the risks described above.. Subject to restrictions in our 2016 Credit Agreement and the Notes, we may incur additional indebtedness, which could increase the risks associated with our already substantial indebtedness. Subject to certain limitations, including compliance with the covenants in our 2016 Credit Agreement, we have the ability to borrow additional funds under our 2016 Credit Agreement.. This indebtedness could have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and increasing interest expense.. Moreover, we may be required to raise substantial additional financing to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements. Our ability to arrange additional financing or refinancing will depend on, among other factors, our financial position and performance, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing or refinancing on terms acceptable to us or at all.. Volatility in the financial markets may negatively impact our ability to access credit and the terms at which we would access such credit.. Adverse conditions in the credit market may limit our ability to access credit at a time when we would like or need to do so. Our senior secured revolving credit facility under the 2016 Credit Agreement expires in July 2021 when the outstanding balance of the revolving credit facility and the tranche A term loan will be due, and in 2023 the tranche B term loan and the Notes will be due. Any limitation on the availability of funds or credit facilities could have an impact on our ability to refinance the maturing debt or react to changing economic and business conditions which could adversely impact us.. Volatility in the financial markets may negatively impact WEX Bank's ability to attract and retain deposits.. Adverse conditions in the credit market may limit WEX Bank's ability to attract deposits at a time when it would like or need to do so. A significant credit ratings downgrade, material capital market disruptions, significant withdrawals by depositors at WEX Bank, or adverse changes to its industrial bank charter could impact our ability to maintain adequate liquidity and impact our ability to provide competitive offerings to our customers. Any limitation of availability of deposits could have an impact on our ability to finance our U.S. accounts receivable which would adversely impact us.. Our industrial bank subsidiary is subject to funding risks associated with its reliance on brokered deposits.. Under applicable regulations, if WEX Bank were no longer \"well capitalized,\" it would not be able to accept brokered deposits without the approval of the FDIC. WEX Bank's inability to accept brokered deposits, or a loss of a significant amount of its brokered deposits, could adversely affect our liquidity. Additionally, such circumstances could require it to raise deposit rates in an attempt to attract new deposits, or to obtain funds through other sources at higher rates, which would adversely affect our results of operations.. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, and to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions and research and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash. This, to a certain extent, is subject to economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.. We have substantial indebtedness, and may incur additional indebtedness, which could lead to increased interest expense and could increases the amount of cash flows required to fund interest expense associated with our indebtedness. In addition, certain obligations under the 2016 Credit Agreement bear interest at variable interest rates. We currently maintain five forward-fixed interest rate swap agreements which are intended to fix the future interest payments associated with $1,300 million of our variable-rate borrowings; however, those swap agreements expire at various points prior to the. 21. Table of Contents. expiration of the 2016 Credit Agreement.  In addition, interest rate increases still could result in larger debt service requirements. Such an increase in our debt service obligations would adversely affect our cash flows.. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations, that anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or at all, that future borrowings will be available to us under our 2016 Credit Agreement or any subsequent credit agreement, or that we can obtain alternative financing proceeds in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including the Notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the Notes, at or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. The debt service obligations under our 2016 Credit Agreement could also reduce funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes and may create competitive disadvantages relative to other companies with lower debt levels. The 2016 Credit Agreement was used in part to finance the acquisition of EFS.  If we do not achieve the expected benefits and cost savings from the acquisition, or if the financial performance of the combined company does not meet current expectations, then our ability to service our indebtedness may be adversely impacted.. In an environment of increasing interest rates, interest expense on the variable rate portion of our borrowings would increase and we may not be able to replace our maturing debt with new debt that carries the same interest rates. We may be adversely affected by significant changes in the brokered deposit market.. Our industrial bank subsidiary, WEX Bank, uses collectively brokered deposits, including certificates of deposit and interest-bearing money-market deposits, to finance payments to major oil companies. Certificates of deposit carry fixed interest rates from issuance to maturity, which vary and are relatively short term in duration. The interest-bearing money market deposits carry variable rates. Upon maturity, the deposits will likely be replaced by issuing new deposits to the extent that they are needed. In a rising interest rate environment, WEX Bank would not be able to replace maturing deposits with deposits that carry the same or lower interest rates. Therefore, rising interest rates would result in reduced net income to the extent that certificates of deposit and money market deposits mature and are replaced. At December 31, 2017, WEX Bank had outstanding $630.9 million in certificates of deposit maturing within one year, $306.9 million in certificates of deposit maturing between one and three years, and $285.9 million in interest-bearing money market deposits, for an aggregate exposure of $1,223.7 million in brokered deposits at WEX Bank.. Additionally, under our 2016 Credit Agreement and Notes, we had $2,139.4 million of fixed and variable interest rate indebtedness outstanding at December 31, 2017, consisting of $400.0 million of borrowings under our bond facility at a fixed rate of 4.750 percent and $1,300 million of borrowings under our 2016 Credit Agreement that bore interest at floating rates, subject to the partial hedging arrangement described above. An increase in interest rates would increase the cost of borrowing under our 2016 Credit Agreement.. Our 2016 Credit Agreement uses LIBOR as a reference rate for our term loans and revolving credit facility, such that the interest due pursuant to a such loans may be calculated using LIBOR (subject to a stated minimum value).  On July 27, 2017, the United Kingdom's Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, announced that it intends to phase out LIBOR by the end of 2021. It is unclear if at that time LIBOR will cease to exist or if new methods of calculating LIBOR will be established such that it continues to exist after 2021. The future of LIBOR at this time is uncertain. If the method for calculation of LIBOR changes, if LIBOR is no longer available or if lenders have increased costs due to changes in LIBOR, we may suffer from potential increases in interest rates on our floating debt rate. Further, we may need to renegotiate our 2016 Credit Agreement and the loans that utilize LIBOR as a factor in determining the interest rate to replace LIBOR with the new standard that is established.. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a significant impact on our business, results of operation and financial condition.. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted into law. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, when fully implemented, will result in substantial changes in the regulation of derivatives and capital market activities. The impact of the Dodd-Frank Act is difficult to assess because many provisions are being phased in over time and because the current Presidential administration has indicated it may make or propose changes to provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. In particular, the Dodd-Frank Act establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market.  The rules, if enacted in their proposed form, may require us to change to any fuel price, currency and interest rate hedging practices we may then use to comply with new regulatory requirements. Potential changes include clearing and execution methodology of our derivatives transactions. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires many counterparties to derivatives instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity. These new entities may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. Presently, we cannot assess the capital or margin requirements which might apply to our over-the-counter. 22. Table of Contents. transactions. Once implemented, these changes could result in increased transaction costs. In summary, the Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could increase the cost of derivative contracts or modify the way in which we conduct those transactions. Additionally, we are required to pay to the lenders under the 2016 Credit Agreement, any increased costs associated with the Dodd-Frank Act and other changes in laws, rules or regulations, subject to the terms of the 2016 Credit Agreement.. The Dodd-Frank Act also created the CFPB, to regulate the offering of consumer financial products or services under the federal consumer financial laws. The CFPB assumed rulemaking authority under the existing federal consumer financial protection laws, and enforces those laws against and examines certain non-depository institutions and insured depository institutions with total assets greater than $10 billion and their affiliates. In addition, the CFPB was granted general authority to prevent covered persons or service providers from committing or engaging in unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices under federal law in connection with any transaction with a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service. The CFPB also has broad rulemaking authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws. It is unclear what changes will be promulgated by the CFPB and what effect, if any, such changes would have on our business and operations.. As required under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Government Accountability Office issued its study on the implications of any elimination of the exemption to the definition of \"bank\" for industrial banks under the Bank Holding Company Act. The study did not make a recommendation regarding the elimination of this exemption. However, if this exemption were eliminated without any grandfathering or accommodations for existing institutions, we could be required to become a bank holding company which could require us to either cease certain activities or divest WEX Bank.. The current U.S. Administration and Congress have signaled their intent to significantly or completely repeal the Dodd-Frank Act and the associated implementing regulations, and it is unclear what, if any, measures may be implemented to replace it.  Accordingly, there may be an extended period of uncertainty and unpredictability regarding the provisions of federal law and regulations that affect our business and operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act and any related legislation or regulations, or any repeal or replacement of such legislation or regulations, may have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act will not be known until all of the regulations implementing the statute are adopted and implemented. However, compliance with these new laws and regulations may require us to make changes to our business, and, there is a significant possibility that the Dodd-Frank Act will, at a minimum, result in increased regulatory burden and compliance costs.  We may be required to invest significant management time and resources to address the various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the numerous regulations that are required to be issued under it, or to address the changed business environment resulting from a repeal of all or part of the Dodd Frank Act and any related legislation or regulation.. Decreased demand for fuel and other vehicle products and services could harm our business and results of operations.. Demand for fuel and other vehicle products and services may be reduced by factors that are beyond our control, such as the implementation of fuel efficiency standards and the development by vehicle manufacturers and adoption by our fleet customers of vehicles with greater fuel efficiency or alternative fuel sources. To the extent that our customers require less fuel, that decline in purchase volume could reduce our revenues, limiting our profitability and preventing us from taking on other initiatives.. Our business is dependent on several key strategic relationships, the loss of which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Revenue we received from services we provided to our top five customers and strategic relationships accounted for approximately 10 percent of our total revenues in 2017. Accordingly, we are dependent on maintaining our strategic relationships and our results of operations would be lower in the event that any of these relationships ceases to exist. Likewise, we have agreements with the major oil companies, fuel retailers and truck stop merchants whose locations accept our payment processing services. The termination of any of these agreements would reduce the number of locations where our payment processing services are accepted; therefore, we could lose our competitive advantage and our operating results could be adversely affected. While we regularly monitor these relationships, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to maintain them in the future.. We may never realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions we have completed or may undertake.. We have acquired and may attempt to acquire businesses, technologies, services, products or licenses in technologies that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. The process of integrating and operating any acquired. 23. Table of Contents. business, technology, service or product may result in unforeseen redundancies, operating difficulties, and expenditures and may divert significant management attention from our ongoing business operations. As a result, we may incur a variety of costs in connection with acquisitions and may never realize the anticipated benefits.. We are exposed to risks associated with operations outside of the United States, which could harm both our U.S. and international operations.. We conduct operations in North America, South America, Asia Pacific and Europe. As part of our business strategy and growth plan, we plan to further expand internationally. Expansion of our international operations could impose substantial burdens on our resources, divert management's attention from U.S. operations and otherwise harm our business. In addition, there are many barriers to competing successfully in the international market, including:. • fluctuation in foreign currencies;. • changes in the relations between the United States and foreign countries;. • actions of foreign or United States governmental authorities affecting trade and foreign investment;. • increased infrastructure costs including complex legal, tax, accounting and information technology laws and treaties;. • interpretation and application of local laws and regulations including, among others, those impacting anti-money laundering, bribery, financial transaction reporting and positive balance or prepaid cards;. • enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights;. • potentially adverse tax consequences due to, but not limited to, the repatriation of cash and negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws. • competitive pressure on products and services from companies based outside the U.S. that can leverage lower costs of operations;. • the United Kingdom's decision in a June 23, 2016 referendum to leave the European Union (EU) (commonly referred to as \"Brexit\"); and. • local labor conditions and regulations.. We cannot assure you that our investments outside the United States will produce desired levels of revenue or costs, or that one or more of the factors listed above will not harm our business.. New laws, regulations and enforcement activities could negatively impact our business and the markets we presently operate in or could limit our expansion opportunities.. Our operations are subject to substantial regulation both domestically and internationally. There are often new regulatory efforts which could result in significant constraints and may impact our operations. These existing and emerging regulations can make the expansion of our business very difficult and negatively impact our revenue. Among the regulations that impact us or could impact us are those governing: interchange rates; interest rate and fee restrictions; credit access and disclosure requirements; collection and pricing requirements; compliance obligations; data security and data breach requirements; identity theft avoidance programs; health care mandates; and anti-money laundering compliance programs. We also often must obtain permission to conduct business in new locations from government regulators. Changes to these regulations, including expansion of consumer-oriented regulation to business-to-business transactions, could negatively impact our operations, financial condition and results of operations and could further increase our compliance costs and limit our ability to expand to new markets.. We also conduct business with other highly regulated businesses such as banks, payment card issuers, and health insurance providers. These industries are subject to significant potential reforms that could negatively affect these businesses, their ability to maintain or expand their products and services, and the costs associated with doing so. These developments could also negatively impact our business.. 24. Table of Contents. Laws or regulations developed in one jurisdiction or for one product could result in new laws or regulations in other jurisdictions or for other products.. Regulators often monitor other approaches to the governance of the payment industry. As a result, a law or regulation enacted in one jurisdiction could result in similar developments in another. In addition, law and regulation involving one product could influence the extension of regulations to other product offerings.. The expansion of certain regulations could negatively impact our business in other geographies or for other products. Rules and regulations concerning interchange and business operations regulations, for example, may differ from country to country which adds complexity and expense to our operations.. These varying and increasingly complex regulations could limit our ability to globalize our products and could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Regulations and industry standards intended to protect or limit access to personal information could adversely affect our ability to effectively provide our services.. Governmental bodies in the United States and abroad have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, laws and regulations restricting the transfer of, and requiring safeguarding of, non-public personal information. For example, in the United States, all financial institutions must undertake certain steps to ensure the privacy and security of consumer financial information. In Europe, the adoption of General Data Protection Regulation (commonly referred to as GDPR) also requires additional privacy protections.  In connection with providing services to our clients, we are required by regulations and arrangements with payment networks and certain clients to provide assurances regarding the confidentiality and security of non-public consumer information. These arrangements require periodic audits by independent companies regarding our compliance with industry standards such as payment card industry, or PCI, standards and also allow for similar audits regarding best practices established by regulatory guidelines. The compliance standards relate to our infrastructure and operational procedures designed to safeguard the confidentiality and security of non-public consumer personal information received from our customers. Our ability to maintain compliance with these standards and satisfy these audits will affect our ability to attract and maintain business in the future. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract or to governmental proceedings. In addition, our client relationships and reputation could be harmed, and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new clients. If more restrictive privacy laws or rules are adopted by authorities in the future on the federal or state level, our compliance costs may increase, our opportunities for growth may be curtailed by our compliance capabilities or reputational harm and our potential liability for security breaches may increase, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our future results.. We are subject to taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. Any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We are also subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law new legislation that significantly revised the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The newly enacted federal income tax law, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings (except for certain small businesses), limitation of the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, in each case, for losses arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 (though any such net operating losses may be carried forward indefinitely), one time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, elimination of U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the new federal tax law is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, it is uncertain how various states will respond to the newly enacted federal tax law. The impact of this tax reform on holders of our common stock is also uncertain and could be adverse. We urge our stockholders to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to this legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in or holding our common stock.. 25. Table of Contents. The healthcare industry changes often and technology-enabled services used by consumers are relatively new and unproven.. The market for technology-enabled services for healthcare consumers changes rapidly and new products and services are consistently being introduced. Opportunities to gain market share are challenging due to the significant resources of our existing and potential competitors. It is uncertain whether or how fast this market will continue to grow. In order to remain competitive, we are continually involved in a number of projects to develop new services or compete with these new market entrants, including the development of mobile versions of our proprietary technology platform. These projects carry risks, such as cost overruns, delays in delivery, performance problems and lack of acceptance by our customers.. Based on our experience, consumers are still learning about health savings accounts, which are often referred to as HSAs, and other similar tax-advantaged healthcare savings arrangements. The willingness of consumers to increase their use of technology platforms to manage their healthcare saving and spending tax advantaged benefits will impact our operating results.. We may incur impairment charges on goodwill or other intangible assets.. We account for goodwill in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board, which is often referred to as FASB, Accounting Standard Codification Topic 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other. Our reporting units and related indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested annually during the fourth fiscal quarter of each year in order to determine whether their carrying value exceeds their fair value. In addition, they are tested on an interim basis if an event occurs or circumstances change between annual tests that would more likely than not reduce their fair value below carrying value. If we determine the fair value of the goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets is less than their carrying value as a result of the tests, an impairment loss is recognized. Any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations.. Our goodwill resides in multiple reporting units. The profitability of individual reporting units may suffer periodically from downturns in customer demand and other factors, the high level of competition existing within our industry, and the level of overall economic activity. Individual reporting units may be relatively more impacted by these factors than the Company as a whole. As a result, demand for the services of one or more of the reporting units could decline which could adversely affect our operations and cash flow, and could result in an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets. As a result of our annual impairment analyses during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we did not identify any impairment of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. For all reporting units, we use a discounted cash flow model of the projected earnings of reporting units to determine the amount of goodwill impairment. While we currently believe that the fair value of all of our intangibles substantially exceeds carrying value and that those intangibles so classified will contribute indefinitely to the cash flows of the Company, materially different assumptions regarding future performance of our reporting units or the weighted-average cost of capital used in the valuations could result in impairment losses and/or additional amortization expense.. If our industrial bank subsidiary fails to meet certain criteria, we may become subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act, which could force us to divest WEX Bank or cease all of our non-banking activities and thus could have an adverse effect on our revenue and business or could create a default under our 2016 Credit Agreement.. WEX Bank meets the criteria for exemption of an industrial bank from the definition of \"bank\" under the Bank Holding Company Act. WEX Bank's failure to qualify for this exemption would cause us to become subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act. This would require us to divest WEX Bank or become a Bank Holding Company and to possibly cease certain non-banking activities which may be impermissible for a Bank Holding Company, and could create a default under our 2016 Credit Agreement. Failure to qualify for this exemption could thus have an adverse effect on our revenue and business.. The loss or suspension of the charter for our Utah industrial bank or changes in regulatory requirements could be disruptive to operations and increase costs.. The regulatory status of WEX Bank enables it to issue certificates of deposit, accept money market deposits and borrow on a federal funds rate basis from other banks. These funds are used to support our operations. WEX Bank operates under a uniform set of state lending laws, and its operations are subject to extensive state and federal regulation. WEX Bank, a Utah industrial bank incorporated in 1998, is an FDIC-insured depository institution. The bank's primary regulators are the Utah DFI and the FDIC. Continued licensing and federal deposit insurance are subject to ongoing satisfaction of compliance and safety and soundness requirements. If WEX Bank were to lose its bank charter, we would either outsource our credit support activities or perform these activities ourselves, which would subject us to the credit laws of each individual state in which we conduct business. Furthermore, we could not be a MasterCard issuer and would have to work. 26. Table of Contents. with another financial institution to issue the product or sell the portfolio. Any such change would be disruptive to our operations and could result in significant incremental costs. In addition, changes in the bank regulatory environment, including the implementation of new or varying measures or interpretations by the State of Utah or the federal government, may significantly affect or restrict the manner in which we conduct business in the future or could create a default under our 2016 Credit Agreement.. We are subject to extensive supervision and regulation that could restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business and limit our ability to generate income.. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, including that of the FDIC, the CFPB, and the Utah DFI. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders or noteholders. These regulations affect our payment operations, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, damages, civil money penalties or reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. The U.S. Congress and federal regulatory agencies frequently revise banking and securities laws, regulations and policies. We cannot predict whether or in what form any other proposed regulations or statutes will be adopted or the extent to which our business may be affected by any new regulation or statute. Such changes could subject our business to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things.. Our industrial bank subsidiary is subject to regulatory capital requirements that may require us to make capital contributions to this subsidiary, and that may restrict the ability of the subsidiary to make cash available to us.. WEX Bank must maintain minimum amounts of regulatory capital. If WEX Bank does not meet these capital requirements, its regulators have broad discretion to institute a number of corrective actions that could have a direct material effect on our financial condition. WEX Bank, as an institution insured by the FDIC, must maintain certain capital ratios, paid-in capital minimums and adequate allowances for loan losses. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, we are also required to serve as a source of financial strength for WEX Bank. If WEX Bank were to fail to meet any of the capital requirements to which it is subject, or if required under Dodd-Frank's source of strength requirements, we may be forced to provide WEX Bank with additional capital, which could impair our ability to service our indebtedness or may not be permitted under the terms of our 2016 Credit Agreement or Notes. To pay any dividend, WEX Bank must maintain adequate capital above regulatory guidelines. Accordingly, WEX Bank may be unable to make any of its cash or other assets available to us, including to service our indebtedness.. We are subject to limitations on transactions with our industrial bank subsidiary, which may limit our ability to engage in transactions with and obtain credit from our industrial bank.. Sections 23A and 23B of the FRA and the implementing regulations limit the extent to which we can borrow or otherwise obtain credit from or engage in other \"covered transactions\" with WEX Bank. \"Covered transactions\" include loans or extensions of credit, purchases of or investments in securities, purchases of assets, including assets subject to an agreement to repurchase, acceptance of securities as collateral for a loan or extension of credit, or the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance, or letter of credit. Although the applicable rules do not serve as an outright ban on engaging in \"covered transactions,\" they do limit the amount of covered transactions WEX Bank may have with any one affiliate and with all affiliates in the aggregate. The applicable rules also require that we engage in such transactions with WEX Bank only on terms and under circumstances that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to WEX Bank, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with nonaffiliated companies. Furthermore, with certain exceptions, each loan or extension of credit by WEX Bank to the Company or its other affiliates must be secured by collateral with a market value ranging from 100 percent to 130 percent of the amount of the loan or extension of credit, depending on the type of collateral. Accordingly, WEX Bank may be unable to provide credit or engage in transactions with us, including transactions intended to help us service our indebtedness.. If the technologies we use in operating our business and interacting with our customers fail, are unavailable, or do not operate to expectations, or we fail to successfully implement technology strategies and capabilities in connection with our outsourcing arrangements, our business and results of operation could be adversely impacted.. We utilize a combination of proprietary and third-party technologies to operate our business and interact with our customers, partners and suppliers, among others. This includes technology that we have developed, have contracted with others to develop, have outsourced to a single provider to operate or have obtained through third-parties by way of service agreements.  To the extent that our proprietary technology or a third-party providers' technology does not work as agreed to. 27. Table of Contents. or as expected, or if we experience outages or unavailability resulting from their operations and the services they provide to us, our ability to efficiently and effectively deliver services could be adversely impacted and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Similarly, any failure by our customers or partners to access the technology that we develop internally could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Although we make substantial investments in technology, there is no guarantee that it will function as intended once it is placed into operation. Lastly, given our reliance on technology, we regularly assess our technology plans, including both platforms and technology infrastructure. To the extent that we conclude that certain technologies should be retired, that existing platforms should be consolidated, or that we should change our technology strategies, we may be required to impair or accelerate depreciation on certain assets. Any of these potential changes or failures in our technology strategies may also divert management's attention and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our business is regularly subject to cyberattacks and attempted security and privacy breaches and we may not be able to adequately protect our information systems, including the data we collect about our customers, which could subject us to liability and damage our reputation.. We collect and store data about our customers and their fleets, including bank account information and spending data. Our customers expect us to keep this information in our confidence. In certain instances, the information we collect includes social security numbers. As a result of applicable laws, we are required to take commercially reasonable measures to prevent and mitigate the impact of cyber-attack, as well as the unauthorized access, acquisition, release and use of \"personally identifiable information,\" such as social security numbers. While social security numbers constitute a very small part of the data we keep, in the event of a security breach we would be required to determine the types of information compromised and determine corrective actions and next steps under applicable laws, which would require us to expend capital and other resources to address the security breach and protect against future breaches.  An increasing number of organizations, including large on-line and off-line merchants and businesses, large Internet companies, financial institutions, and government institutions, have disclosed breaches of their information security systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks, including on portions of their websites or infrastructure.  Like those companies, we too, are subject to regular and repeated attempts to breach our information security protections.. As outsourcing, specialization of functions, third-party digital services and technology innovation within the payments industry increase (including with respect to mobile technologies, tokenization, big data and cloud storage solutions), more third parties are involved in processing card transactions and there is a risk the confidentiality, integrity, privacy and/or security of data held by, or accessible to, third parties, including merchants that accept our cards, payment processors and our business partners, may be compromised, which could lead to unauthorized transactions on our cards and costs associated with responding to such an incident. In addition, high profile data breaches could change consumer behaviors, impact our ability to access data to make product offers and credit decisions and result in legislation and additional regulatory requirements.. The techniques used in attempts to obtain unauthorized, improper or illegal access to our systems, our data or our customers' data, to degrade service, or to sabotage our systems are constantly evolving, are difficult to detect quickly, and may not be recognized until after a successful penetration of our information security systems. Unauthorized parties attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities through various means, including, among others, targeting our systems or facilities or our third-party vendors or customers, or attempting to fraudulently induce our employees, partners, customers or others into disclosing user names, passwords, payment card information, or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. Certain efforts may be state-sponsored and supported by significant financial and technological resources, making them even more difficult to detect. Like many companies, we are a target for such breaches and attacks. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect our data and customer data and to prevent data loss and other security breaches, and will continue to expend significant additional resources to bolster these protections, these security measures cannot provide absolute security. Our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to successful cyberattacks or security breaches, and third parties may be able to access our customers' personal or proprietary information and data that are stored on or accessible through those systems.. Our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance, system errors or vulnerabilities, or other irregularities. Any actual or perceived breach of our security could interrupt our operations; result in our systems or services being unavailable; result in improper disclosure of data; materially harm our reputation and brand; result in significant legal and financial exposure; lead to loss of customer confidence in, or decreased use of, our products and services; and, adversely affect our business and results of operations. Any breaches of network or data security at our partners, some of whom maintain information about our customers, or breaches of our customers' systems could have similar effects. In addition, our customers could have vulnerabilities on their own computer systems that are entirely unrelated to our systems, but could mistakenly attribute their own vulnerabilities to us.  While we take commercially. 28. Table of Contents. appropriate steps to safeguard data used by and contained on the systems of our partners, customers and vendors, we cannot control all access to those systems and they are therefore subject to potential cyberattacks and fraud.. Furthermore, as we have increased the number of platforms as well as the size of our networks and information systems, our reliance on these technologies have become increasingly important to our operating activities. The potential negative impact that a platform, network or information system shutdown may have on our operating activities has increased. Shutdowns may be caused by cyberattacks and unexpected catastrophic events such as natural disasters or other unforeseen events, such as software or hardware defects or cyber-attacks by groups or individuals.. Under the Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999, also referred to as the \"Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act\" or GLBA, and some state laws, we and WEX Bank are required to maintain a comprehensive written information security program that includes administrative, technical and physical safeguards relating to consumer information. This requirement generally does not extend to information about companies or about individuals who obtain financial products or services for business, commercial, or agricultural purposes.. The GLBA also requires us and WEX Bank to provide initial and annual privacy notices to customers that describe in general terms our information sharing practices. If we or WEX Bank intend to share nonpublic personal information about consumers with affiliates and/or nonaffiliated third parties, we and WEX Bank must provide customers with a notice and a reasonable period of time for each customer to \"opt out\" of any such disclosure. In addition to U.S. federal privacy laws with which we must comply, states also have adopted statutes, regulations and other measures governing the collection and distribution of nonpublic personal information about customers. In some cases these state measures are preempted by federal law, but if not, we and WEX Bank must monitor and seek to comply with individual state privacy laws in the conduct of our businesses.. When we handle individually identifiable health information, regulations issued under Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, our contracts with our customers, and supplemental state laws require us to implement privacy and data security measures and to comply with breach notification requirements.  We may be subject to contractual damages and civil or criminal penalties if we are found to violate these privacy, security and breach notification requirements.. Our efforts to comply with existing and future health and financial data laws and regulations, both in the U.S. and abroad, is costly and time-consuming. Incidents involving our handling of this protected and sensitive information may consume significant financial and managerial resources and may damage our reputation, which may discourage customers from using, renewing, or expanding their use of our services.. Any security breach, inadvertent transmission of information about our customers, failure to comply with applicable breach notification and reporting requirements, or any violation of international, federal or state privacy laws could expose us to liability in excess of any applicable insurance policies, litigation, regulatory scrutiny, and/or cause damage to our reputation. We may also be required to expend significant resources to implement additional data protection measures or to modify the features and functionality of our system offerings in a way that is less attractive to customers.. Our failure to effectively implement new technology could jeopardize our position as a leader in our industry.. As a provider of information management and payment processing services, we must constantly adapt and respond to the technological advances offered by our competitors and the informational requirements of our customers, including those related to the Internet, in order to maintain and improve upon our competitive position. We may not be able to expand our technological capabilities and service offerings as rapidly as our competitors, which could jeopardize our position as a leader in our industry.. We are dependent on technology systems and electronic communications networks managed by third parties, which could result in our inability to prevent service disruptions.. Our ability to process and authorize transactions electronically depends on our ability to electronically communicate with our fuel and vehicle maintenance providers through point-of-sale devices and electronic networks that are owned and operated by third parties. The electronic communications networks upon which we depend are often subject to disruptions of various magnitudes and durations. Any severe disruption of one or more of these networks could impair our ability to authorize transactions or collect information about such transactions, which, in turn, could harm our reputation for dependable service and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our ability to collect enhanced data relating to our customers' purchases may be limited by the use of older point-of-sale devices by fuel and vehicle maintenance providers. To the extent that fuel and vehicle maintenance providers within our network are slow to adopt advanced point-of-sale devices, we may not be able to offer the latest services and capabilities that our customers demand.. 29. Table of Contents. Our industry continues to become increasingly competitive, which makes it more challenging for us to maintain profit margins at historical levels.. We face and expect to continue to face competition in each category of the overall industry from several companies that seek to offer competing capabilities and services. Historically, we have been able to provide customers with a wide spectrum of services and capabilities and, therefore, we have not considered price to be the exclusive or even the primary basis on which we compete. As our competitors have continued to develop their service offerings, it has become increasingly more challenging for us to compete solely on the basis of superior capabilities or service. In some areas of our business we have been forced to respond to competitive pressures by reducing our fees. We have seen erosion of our historical profit margins as we encourage existing strategic relationships to sign long-term contracts. If these trends continue and if competition intensifies, our profitability may be adversely impacted.. While we have traditionally offered our services to all categories of the fleet industry, some of our competitors have successfully garnered significant share in particular categories of the overall industry. To the extent that our competitors are regarded as leaders in specific categories, they may have an advantage over us as we attempt to further penetrate these categories.. We also face increased competition in our efforts to enter into new strategic relationships and renew existing strategic relationships on similar terms.. Compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations creates additional compliance costs and reputational risk.. We must monitor and report unusual or suspicious account activity, as well as transactions involving amounts in excess of prescribed limits, as required by the Bank Secrecy Act and Internal Revenue Service regulations and other regulations. The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 imposes significant anti-money laundering compliance and due diligence obligations on financial institutions, including WEX Bank. Financial regulators have issued various implementing regulations and have made enforcement a top priority. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, or to comply with all of the relevant laws or regulations, could result in the imposition of fines or penalties and other serious legal and reputational consequences which may impact our financial results.. Our increased presence in foreign jurisdictions increases the possibility of foreign law violations or violation of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"), the United Kingdom Bribery Act of 2010 (\"UKBA\") and the Brazilian Anti-Corruption Law (\"ACL\").. We are subject to the FCPA, the ACL and the UKBA, as we own subsidiaries organized under UK and Brazilian law, which serve as a holding companies for other subsidiaries. While the FCPA generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, the UKBA is broader in its reach and prohibits bribery in purely commercial contexts. Any violation of the FCPA, the UKBA or similar laws and regulations, including the ACL, could result in significant expenses, divert management attention, and otherwise have a negative impact on us. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA, UKBA, ACL or laws of any other jurisdiction could subject us to, among other things, penalties and legal expenses that could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. The possibility of violations of the FCPA, UKBA, ACL or similar laws or regulations may increase as we expand globally and into countries with recognized corruption problems.. The failure to maintain effective systems of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could result in the inability to accurately report our financial results or prevent material misstatement due to fraud, which could cause current and potential shareholders to lose confidence in our financial reporting, adversely affect the trading price of our securities, harm our operating results or trigger a default under the 2016 Credit Agreement.. Effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. Our financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are reliant, in part, on information we receive from third parties that supply information to us regarding transactions that we process. The failure to develop or maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could harm our reputation or operating results, or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, or trigger a default under the 2016 Credit Agreement. As we expand our business operations domestically and internationally, we will need to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and. 30. Table of Contents. disclosure controls and procedures. If we are unable to do so, our external auditors could issue a qualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.. Ineffective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities or affect our ability to access the capital markets and could result in regulatory proceedings against us by, among others, the SEC. In addition, a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting may lead to deficiencies in the preparation of financial statements, which in turn could lead to litigation claims against us. The defense of any such claims may cause the diversion of management's attention and resources, and we may be required to pay damages if any such claims or proceedings are not resolved in our favor. Any litigation, even if resolved in our favor, could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. Such events could also affect our ability to raise capital to fund future business initiatives.. Our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to our success and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance.. We believe our employees, including our executive management team, are our most important resource and, in our industry and geographic area, competition for qualified personnel is intense. If we were unable to retain and attract qualified employees, our performance could be materially adversely affected.. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. If any entity controls 10 percent or more of our common stock and such entity has caused a violation of applicable banking laws by its failure to obtain any required approvals prior to acquiring that common stock, we have the power to, and may be required to, restrict such entity's ability to vote shares held by it.. As owners of a Utah industrial bank, we are subject to Utah banking regulations that require any entity that controls 10 percent or more of our common stock to obtain the prior approval of Utah banking authorities. Federal law also prohibits a person or group of persons from acquiring \"control\" of us unless the FDIC has been notified and has not objected to the transaction. Under the FDIC's regulations, the acquisition of 10 percent or more of a class of our voting stock would generally create a rebuttable presumption of control.  In addition, our certificate of incorporation requires that if any stockholder fails to provide us with satisfactory evidence that any required approvals have been obtained, we may, or will if required by state or federal regulators, restrict such stockholder's ability to vote such shares with respect to any matter subject to a vote of our stockholders.. As a result of these regulatory requirements, certain existing and potential stockholders may choose not to invest or invest more in our stock.  This could limit the number of potential investors and impact our ability to attract further funds.. Provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law and applicable banking law may delay or prevent our acquisition by a third party.. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain several provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions include, among other things, a classified board of directors, the elimination of stockholder action by written consent, advance notice for raising business or making nominations at meetings of stockholders and \"blank check\" preferred stock. Blank check preferred stock enables our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to designate and issue additional series of preferred stock with such special dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, including the right to issue convertible securities with no limitations on conversion, and rights to dividends and proceeds in a liquidation that are senior to the common stock, as our board of directors may determine. These provisions may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting common stock. We also are subject to certain provisions of Delaware law, which could delay, deter or prevent us from entering into an acquisition, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder unless specific conditions are met. These provisions also may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their common stock.. In addition, because we own a Utah industrial bank, any purchaser of our common stock who would own 10 percent or more of our common stock after such purchase would be required to obtain the consent of Utah banking authorities and the federal banking authorities prior to consummating any such acquisition. These regulatory requirements may preclude or delay the purchase of a relatively large ownership stake by potential investors.. 31. Table of Contents"
