[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business.  Our business, financial condition, results of operations or the trading price of our common shares could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks.  Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business and operations.. Risks Associated with Real Estate. Market disruptions may significantly and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. World financial markets have, from time to time, experienced significant disruption.  While many U.S. real estate markets have generally stabilized since the pervasive and fundamental disruptions associated with the last recession, which resulted in increased unemployment, weakening of tenant financial condition, large-scale business failures and tight credit markets, the financial markets have been volatile recently, and oil prices have declined dramatically over the past year.  Our results of operations may be sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact tenants of our properties or tenant leasing practices.  Adverse economic conditions affecting tenant income, such as employment levels, business conditions, interest rates, tax rates, fuel and energy costs and other matters, could reduce overall tenant leasing or cause tenants to shift their leasing practices.  In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession, rising interest rates or declining demand for real estate, or the public perception that any of these events may occur, could result in a general decline in rents or an increased incidence of defaults under existing leases.  Although the U.S. economy generally appears to have emerged from the worst aspects of the last recession, rental rates and valuations for retail space have not fully recovered to pre-recession levels and may not for a number of years. In addition, financial markets may again experience significant and prolonged disruption, including as a result of unanticipated events, or as a result of recent uncertainty regarding legislative and regulatory shifts relating to, among other things, taxation and trade, which could adversely affect our tenants and our business in general.  For example, a general reduction in consumer spending and the level of tenant leasing could adversely affect our ability to maintain our current tenants and gain new tenants, affecting our growth and profitability.   Accordingly, if financial and macroeconomic conditions deteriorate, or if financial markets experience significant disruption, it could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flows, profitability, results of operations and the trading price of our common shares.. Real estate property investments are illiquid due to a variety of factors and therefore we may not be able to dispose of properties when appropriate or on favorable terms.. Our strategy includes opportunistically selling properties that do not have the potential to meet our Community Centered Property® strategy.  However, real estate property investments generally cannot be disposed of quickly.  In addition, the Code imposes certain restrictions on the ability of a REIT to dispose of properties that are not applicable to other types of real estate companies.  Therefore, we may not be able to vary our portfolio in response to economic or other conditions promptly or on favorable terms, which could cause us to incur extended losses, reduce our cash flows and adversely affect distributions to shareholders.. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us.  We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property.  To the extent we are unable to sell any properties for our book value, we may be required to take a non-cash impairment charge or loss on the sale, either of which would reduce our net income.. We may be required to expend funds and time to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold.  We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements, which may impede our ability to sell a property.  Further, we may agree to transfer restrictions that materially restrict us from selling a property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property.  These transfer restrictions could impede our ability to sell a property even if we deem it necessary or appropriate.  These facts and any others that would further contribute to the illiquid character of real estate properties and impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares.. 5. Table of Contents. Our business is dependent upon our tenants successfully operating their businesses, and their failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully and profitably operate our business.. We depend on our tenants to operate their businesses in a manner that generates revenues sufficient to allow them to meet their obligations to us, including their obligations to pay rent, maintain certain insurance coverage, pay real estate taxes and maintain the properties in a manner so as not to jeopardize their operating licenses or regulatory status.  The ability of our tenants to fulfill their obligations under our leases may depend, in part, upon the overall profitability of their operations.  Cash flow generated by the businesses of certain tenants may not be sufficient for such tenants to meet their obligations to us.  Our financial position could be weakened and our ability to fulfill our obligations under our indebtedness and make distributions to our shareholders could be limited if a number of our tenants were unable to meet their obligations to us or failed to renew or extend their relationships with us as their lease terms expire, or if we were unable to lease or re-lease our properties on economically favorable terms.. Disruption in capital markets could adversely impact acquisition activities and pricing of real estate assets.. Volatility or other disruption in capital markets could adversely affect our access to or the cost of debt and equity capital, which could adversely affect our acquisition and other investment activities.  Disruptions could include price volatility or decreased demand in equity markets, as seen in recent months, rising interest rates, tightening of underwriting standards by lenders and credit rating agencies and the significant inventory of unsold collateralized mortgage backed securities in the market.  As a result, we may not be able to obtain favorable equity and debt financing in the future or at all.  This may impair our ability to acquire properties at favorable returns or adversely affect our returns on investments in development and re-development projects, which may adversely affect our results of operations and distributions to shareholders.  Furthermore, any turmoil in the capital markets could adversely impact the overall amount of capital available to invest in real estate, which may result in price or value decreases of real estate assets.. The value of investments in our common shares will be directly affected by general economic and regulatory factors we cannot control or predict.. Investments in real estate typically involve a high level of risk as the result of factors we cannot control or predict.  One of the risks of investing in real estate is the possibility that our properties will not generate income sufficient to meet operating expenses or will generate income and capital appreciation, if any, at rates lower than those anticipated or available through investments in comparable real estate or other investments.  The following factors may affect income from properties and yields from investments in properties and are generally outside of our control:. • conditions in financial markets;. • continuing deterioration of the brick-and-mortar retail industry;. • over-building in our markets;. • a reduction in rental income as the result of the inability to maintain occupancy levels;. • adverse changes in applicable tax, real estate, environmental or zoning laws;. • changes in general economic conditions or economic conditions in our markets;. • a taking of any of our properties by eminent domain;. • adverse local conditions (such as changes in real estate zoning laws that may reduce the desirability of real estate in the area);. • acts of God, such as hurricanes, earthquakes or floods and other uninsured losses;. • changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing properties in an area;. • changes in interest rates and availability of permanent debt capital, which may render the sale of a property difficult or unattractive; and. • periods of high interest rates, inflation or tight money supply.. 6. Table of Contents. Some or all of these factors may affect our properties, which could adversely affect our operations and ability to make distributions to shareholders.. All of our properties are subject to property taxes that may increase in the future, which could adversely affect our cash flow.. Our properties are subject to property taxes that may increase as property tax rates change and as the properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities.  As the owner of the properties we are ultimately responsible for payment of the taxes to the government.  If property taxes increase, our tenants may be unable to make the required tax payments, ultimately requiring us to pay the taxes.  In addition, we will generally be responsible for property taxes related to any vacant space in our properties.. Our assets may be subject to impairment charges.. We periodically evaluate our real estate investments and other assets for impairment indicators.  The judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based on factors such as market conditions, tenant performance and legal structure.  If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to make an adjustment to the net carrying value of the asset, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and funds from operations in the period in which the write-off occurs.. Compliance or failure to comply with laws requiring access to our properties by disabled persons could result in substantial cost.. The ADA and other federal, state and local laws generally require public accommodations be made accessible to disabled persons.  Noncompliance with these laws could result in the imposition of fines by the government or the award of damages to private litigants.  These laws may require us to modify our existing properties, which could require a significant investment of our cash resources that could otherwise be invested in more productive assets.  These laws may also restrict renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by disabled persons or may require us to add other structural features which increase our construction costs.  Legislation or regulations adopted in the future may impose further obligations, restrictions or increased compliance costs on us with respect to improved access by disabled persons.  We may incur unanticipated expenses that may be material to our financial condition or results of operations to comply with ADA and other federal, state and local laws, or in connection with lawsuits brought by private litigants.. We face intense competition, which may decrease, or prevent increases of, the occupancy and rental rates of our properties.. We compete with a number of developers, owners and operators of commercial real estate, many of whom own properties similar to ours in the same markets in which our properties are located.  If our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates, or below the rental rates we currently charge our tenants, we may lose existing or potential tenants and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge or to offer more substantial rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or below-market renewal options in order to retain tenants when our tenants' leases expire.  This competitive environment could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease our properties or any newly developed or acquired property, as well as on the rents charged.. Our acquisition strategy includes acquiring distressed commercial real estate, and we could face significant competition from other investors, REITs, hedge funds, private equity funds and other private real estate investors with greater financial resources and access to capital than us.  Therefore, we may not be able to compete successfully for investments. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of purchasers competing for suitable investments may increase, all of which could result in competition for accretive acquisition opportunities and adversely affect our business plan and our ability to maintain our current dividend rate.. 7. Table of Contents. Risks Associated with Our Operations. Because a majority of our GLA is in the Houston and Phoenix metropolitan areas, an economic downturn in either area could adversely impact our operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.. The majority of our assets and revenues are currently derived from properties located in the Houston and Phoenix metropolitan areas.  As of December 31, 2017, 28% and 47% of our wholly-owned GLA was located in Houston and Phoenix, respectively.  Our results of operations are directly affected by our ability to attract financially sound commercial tenants.  A significant economic downturn in the Houston, including as a result of the recent significant decline in oil prices, or Phoenix metropolitan area may adversely impact our ability to locate and retain financially sound tenants, could have an adverse impact on our existing tenants' revenues, costs and results of operations and may adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us.  Likewise, we may be required to lower our rental rates to attract desirable tenants in such an environment. Consequently, because of the geographic concentration among our current assets, if either the Houston or Phoenix metropolitan area experiences an economic downturn, our operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders could be adversely impacted.  In addition, a substantial component of the Houston economy is the oil and gas industry, and the current low prices of oil and natural gas could adversely affect companies in that industry and their employees, which could adversely affect the businesses of our Houston tenants.. We lease our wholly-owned properties to approximately 1,300 tenants and leases for approximately 10% to 20% of our GLA expire annually.  Each year we face the risk of non-renewal of a significant percentage of our leases and the cost of re-leasing a significant amount of our available space, and our failure to meet leasing targets and control the cost of re-leasing our properties could adversely affect our rental revenue, operating expenses and results of operations.. Our Community Centered Property® business model produces shorter term leases to smaller, non-national tenants, and substantially all of our revenues consist of base rents received under these leases.  As of December 31, 2017, approximately 29% of the aggregate GLA of our properties is subject to leases that expire prior to December 31, 2019.  We are subject to the risk that:. • tenants may choose not to, or may not have the financial resources to, renew these leases;. • we may experience significant costs associated with re-leasing a significant amount of our available space;. • we may experience difficulties and significant time lags re-leasing vacated space, which may cause us to fail to meet our occupancy and average base rent targets and experience increased costs of re-leasing; and. • the terms of any renewal or re-lease may be less favorable than the terms of the current leases.. We routinely seek to renew leases with our existing tenants prior to their expiration and typically begin discussions with tenants as early as 18 months prior to the expiration date of the existing lease.  While our early renewal program and other leasing and marketing efforts provide early focus on expiring leases, and have generally been effective in producing lease renewals prior to expiration of the leases at rates comparable to or slightly in excess of the current rates, market conditions, including new supply of properties, and macroeconomic conditions in our markets and nationally could adversely impact our renewal rate and/or the rental rates we are able to negotiate.  If any of these risks materialize, our rental revenue, operating expenses and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Many of our tenants are small businesses, which may have a higher risk of bankruptcy or insolvency.. Many of our tenants are small businesses that depend primarily on cash flows from their operations to pay their rent and without other resources could be at a higher risk of bankruptcy or insolvency than larger, national tenants.  If tenants are unable to comply with the terms of our leases, we may be forced to modify the leases in ways that are unfavorable to us.  Alternatively, the failure of a tenant to perform under a lease could require us to declare a default, repossess the space and find a suitable replacement tenant.  There is no assurance that we would be able to lease the space on substantially equivalent or better terms than the prior lease, or at all, or successfully reposition the space for other uses.  If one or more of our tenants files for bankruptcy relief, the Bankruptcy Code provides that a debtor has the option to assume or reject the unexpired lease within a certain period of time.. 8. Table of Contents. Any bankruptcy filing by or relating to one or more of our tenants could bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant or seize its property.  A tenant bankruptcy could also delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the lease and could ultimately preclude collection of all or a portion of these sums.  It is possible that we may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims we hold, if any.  Furthermore, dealing with a tenant's bankruptcy or other default may divert management's attention and cause us to incur substantial legal and other costs.  The bankruptcy or insolvency of a number of smaller tenants may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares.. Uninsured losses relating to real property or excessively expensive premiums for insurance coverage may adversely affect our returns.. We attempt to adequately insure all of our properties to cover casualty losses.  However, there are types of losses, generally catastrophic in nature, such as losses due to wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution or environmental matters, which are uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be insured subject to limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments.  Our current geographic concentration in the Houston metropolitan area potentially increases the risk of damage to our portfolio due to hurricanes.  Insurance risks associated with potential terrorism acts could sharply increase the premiums we pay for coverage against property and casualty claims.  In some instances, we may be required to provide other financial support, either through financial assurances or self-insurance, to cover potential losses.  We cannot assure you that we will have adequate coverage for these losses.  Also, to the extent we must pay unexpectedly large insurance premiums, we could suffer reduced earnings that would result in less cash to be distributed to shareholders.. Discovery of previously undetected environmentally hazardous conditions may adversely affect our operating results.. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in its property.  The costs of removal or remediation could be substantial.  These laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous or toxic substances.  Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which a property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures.  Environmental laws provide for sanctions in the event of noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties.  Certain environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for release of and exposure to hazardous substances, including asbestos containing materials into the air.  In addition, third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances.  The cost of defending against claims of liability, of compliance with environmental regulatory requirements, of remediating any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury claims could materially adversely affect our business, assets or results of operations and, consequently, amounts available for distributions to our shareholders.. Certain of our properties currently include or have in the past included a dry cleaning facility as a tenant.  See \"Business - Compliance with Governmental Regulations.\". We may not be successful in consummating suitable acquisitions or investment opportunities, which may impede our growth and adversely affect the trading price of our common shares.. Our ability to expand through acquisitions is integral to our business strategy and requires us to consummate suitable acquisition or investment opportunities that meet our criteria and are compatible with our growth strategy.  We may not be successful in consummating acquisitions or investments in properties that meet our acquisition criteria on satisfactory terms or at all.  Failure to consummate acquisitions or investment opportunities, the failure of an acquired property to perform as expected, or the failure to integrate successfully any acquired properties without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems, would slow our growth, which could in turn adversely affect the trading price of our common shares.. Our ability to acquire properties on favorable terms may be constrained by the following significant risks:. • competition from other real estate investors with significant capital, including other REITs and institutional investment funds;. • competition from other potential acquirers which may significantly increase the purchase price for a property we acquire, which could reduce our growth prospects;. • unsatisfactory results of our due diligence investigations or failure to meet other customary closing conditions;. 9. Table of Contents. • the failure of an acquired property to perform as expected; and. • failure to finance an acquisition on favorable terms or at all.. If any of these risks are realized, our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares may be materially and adversely affected.. Our success depends in part on our ability to execute our Community Centered Property® strategy.. Our Community Centered Property® strategy requires intensive management of a large number of small spaces and small tenant relationships.  Our success depends in part upon our management's ability to identify potential Community Centered Properties® and find and maintain the appropriate tenants to create such a property.  Lack of market acceptance of our Community Centered Property® strategy or our inability to successfully attract and manage a large number of tenant relationships could adversely affect our occupancy rates, operating results and dividend rate.. Our business is significantly influenced by demand for retail space generally, and a decrease in such demand may have a greater adverse effect on our business than if we owned a more diversified real estate portfolio.. Because our portfolio of properties consists primarily of community and neighborhood shopping centers, a decrease in the demand for retail space, due to the economic factors discussed above or otherwise, may have a greater adverse effect on our business and financial condition than if we owned a more diversified real estate portfolio.  The market for retail space has been, and could continue to be, adversely affected by weakness in the national, regional and local economies, the adverse financial conditions of some retailing companies, the ongoing consolidation in the retail sector, the excess amount of retail space in a number of markets and increasing online consumer purchases.. Loss of our key personnel, particularly our senior managers, could threaten our ability to execute our strategy and operate our business successfully.. We are dependent on the experience and knowledge of our key executive personnel, particularly certain of our senior managers who have been instrumental in setting our strategic direction, operating our business, identifying, recruiting and training key personnel and arranging necessary financing.  Losing the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business until qualified replacements could be found.  We also believe that they could not quickly be replaced with managers of equal experience and capabilities and their successors may not be as effective.. Our systems may not be adequate to support our growth, and our failure to successfully oversee our portfolio of properties could adversely affect our results of operations.. We make no assurances that we will be able to adapt our portfolio management, administrative, accounting and operational systems, or hire and retain sufficient operational staff, to support our growth.  Our failure to successfully oversee our current portfolio of properties or any future acquisitions or developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions.. We face risks relating to cybersecurity attacks, loss of confidential information and other business disruptions.. Our business is at risk from and may be impacted by cybersecurity attacks, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to our confidential data and other electronic security breaches. Such cyber-attacks can range from individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems to more sophisticated security threats. While we employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats, there is no guarantee such efforts will be successful in preventing a cyber-attack. Cybersecurity incidents could compromise the confidential information of our tenants, employees and third party vendors and affect the efficiency of our business operations, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations.. 10. Table of Contents. There can be no assurance that we will be able to pay or maintain cash distributions or that distributions will increase over time.. There are many factors that can affect the availability and timing of cash distributions to shareholders.  Distributions are based upon our funds from operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity, debt service requirements, capital expenditure requirements for our properties and other matters our board of trustees may deem relevant from time to time.  If we do not have sufficient cash available for distributions, we may need to fund the shortage out of working capital or borrow to provide funds for such distributions, which would reduce the amount of capital available for real estate investments and increase our future interest costs.. We can give no assurance that we will be able to continue to pay distributions or that distributions will increase over time.  In addition, we can give no assurance that rents from our properties will increase, or that future acquisitions of real properties, mortgage loans or our investments in securities will increase our cash available for distributions to shareholders.  Our actual results may differ significantly from the assumptions used by our board of trustees in establishing the distribution rate to shareholders.  Our inability to make distributions, or to make distributions at expected levels, could result in a decrease in the trading price of our common shares.. Any weaknesses identified in our system of internal controls by us and our independent registered public accounting firm pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have an adverse effect on our business.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that public companies evaluate and report on their systems of internal control over financial reporting.  In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must report on management's evaluation of those controls.  In future periods, we may identify deficiencies in our system of internal controls over financial reporting that may require remediation.  There can be no assurances that any such future deficiencies identified may not be material weaknesses that would be required to be reported in future periods.  Any deficiencies or material weaknesses could result in significant time and expense to remediate, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.. Risks Associated with Our Indebtedness and Financing. Current market conditions could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing indebtedness or obtain additional financing for growth on acceptable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our ability to grow, our interest cost and our results of operations.. The United States credit markets have experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions, including the bankruptcy, insolvency or restructuring of certain financial institutions.  These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of various types of debt financing.  Reductions in our available borrowing capacity, or inability to refinance our revolving credit facility when required or when business conditions warrant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, we mortgage many of our properties to secure payment of indebtedness.  If we are not successful in refinancing our mortgage debt upon maturity, then the property could be foreclosed upon or transferred to the mortgagee, or we might be forced to dispose of some of our properties upon disadvantageous terms, with a consequent loss of income and asset value.  A foreclosure or disadvantageous disposal on one or more of our properties could adversely affect our ability to grow, financial condition, interest cost, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase.  Higher interest rates on newly incurred debt may negatively impact us as well.  If interest rates increase, our interest costs and overall costs of capital will increase, which could adversely affect our transaction and development activity, financial condition, results of operation, cash flow, our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.. Our failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations.. We currently have mortgages that bear interest at variable rates and we may incur additional variable rate debt in the future.  Accordingly, increases in interest rates on variable rate debt would increase our interest expense, which could reduce net earnings and cash available for payment of our debt obligations and distributions to our shareholders.. 11. Table of Contents. We may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as interest cap agreements and interest rate swap agreements.  These agreements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that a court could rule that such an agreement is not legally enforceable.  In the past, we have used derivative financial instruments to hedge interest rate risks related to our variable rate borrowings.  We will not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes and intend only to enter into contracts with major financial institutions based on their credit rating and other factors, but we may choose to change this practice in the future.  As of December 31, 2017, we had fixed rate hedges on $209.7 million of our variable rate debt, including $200 million of our unsecured credit facility.  We may enter into additional interest rate swap agreements for our variable rate debt not currently subject to hedges, which totaled $232.2 million as of December 31, 2017.  Hedging may reduce the overall returns on our investments.  Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. We currently have and may incur additional mortgage indebtedness and other borrowings, which may increase our business risks and may adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.. If we determine it to be in our best interests, we may, in some instances, acquire real properties by using either existing financing or borrowing new funds.  In addition, we may incur or increase our current mortgage debt to obtain funds to acquire additional properties.  We may also borrow funds if necessary to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement described above, or otherwise as may be necessary or advisable to ensure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes.. On November 7, 2014, we, through our Operating Partnership, entered into an unsecured credit facility (the \"2014 Facility\") with the lenders party thereto, with BMO Capital Markets Corp., Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and U.S. Bank, National Association, as co-lead arrangers and joint book runners, and Bank of Montreal, as administrative agent (the \"Agent\").  On October 30, 2015, we, through our Operating Partnership, entered into the first amendment to the 2014 Facility (the \"First Amendment\") with the guarantors party thereto, the lenders party thereto and the Agent.  We refer to the 2014 Facility, as amended by the First Amendment, as the \"Facility.\" Proceeds from the Facility were used for general corporate purposes, including property acquisitions, debt repayment, capital expenditures, the expansion, redevelopment and re-tenanting of properties in our portfolio and working capital. We intend to use the additional proceeds from the Facility for general corporate purposes, including property acquisitions, debt repayment, capital expenditures, the expansion, redevelopment and re-tenanting of properties in our portfolio and working capital.. The Facility is comprised of the following four tranches:. • $300 million unsecured revolving credit facility with a maturity date of October 30, 2019;. • $50 million unsecured term loan with a maturity date of October 30, 2020;. • $50 million unsecured term loan with a maturity date of January 29, 2021; and. • $100 million unsecured term loan with a maturity date of October 30, 2022.. The Facility includes an accordion feature that will allow the Operating Partnership to increase the borrowing capacity to $700 million, upon the satisfaction of certain conditions.  As of December 31, 2017, $432.2 million was drawn on the Facility and our unused borrowing capacity was $67.8 million, assuming that we use the proceeds of the Facility to acquire properties, or to repay debt on properties, that are eligible to be included in the unsecured borrowing base.  The Facility contains customary terms and conditions, including, without limitation, affirmative and negative covenants such as information reporting requirements, maximum secured indebtedness to total asset value, minimum EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization or extraordinary items) to fixed charges and maintenance of a minimum net worth.  The Facility also contains customary events of default with customary notice and cure, including, without limitation, nonpayment, breach of covenant, misrepresentation of representations and warranties in a material respect, cross-default to other major indebtedness, change of control, bankruptcy and loss of REIT status.  The amount available to us and our ability to borrow under the Facility is subject to our compliance with these requirements.  Maintaining compliance with these covenants could limit our ability to implement our business plan effectively, or at all.. 12. Table of Contents. We may also incur mortgage debt on a particular property if we believe the property's projected cash flow is sufficient to service the mortgage debt.  As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $228.7 million of mortgage debt secured by 20 of our wholly-owned or majority interest held properties.  If there is a shortfall in cash flow, however, the amount available for distributions to shareholders may be affected.  In addition, incurring mortgage debt increases the risk of loss because defaults on such indebtedness may result in loss of property in foreclosure actions initiated by lenders.  For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage.  If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds.  We may give lenders full or partial guarantees for mortgage debt incurred by the entities that own our properties.  When we give a guaranty on behalf of an entity that owns one of our properties, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by that entity.  If any mortgages contain cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions, there is a risk that more than one property may be affected by a default.  If any of our properties are foreclosed upon due to a default, our ability to pay cash distributions to our shareholders may be adversely affected.  For more discussion, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.\". If we set aside insufficient working capital or are unable to secure funds for future tenant improvements, we may be required to defer necessary property improvements, which could adversely impact the quality of our properties and our results of operations.. When tenants do not renew their leases or otherwise vacate their space, it is possible that, in order to attract replacement tenants, we may be required to expend substantial funds for tenant improvements and refurbishments to the vacated space.  If we have insufficient working capital reserves, we will have to obtain financing from other sources.  Because most of our leases provide for tenant reimbursement of operating expenses, we have not established a permanent reserve for maintenance and repairs for our properties.  However, to the extent that we have insufficient funds for such purposes, we may establish reserves for maintenance and repairs of our properties out of cash flow generated by operating properties or out of non-liquidating net sale proceeds.  If these reserves or any reserves otherwise established are insufficient to meet our cash needs, we may have to obtain financing from either affiliated or unaffiliated sources to fund our cash requirements.  We cannot assure you that sufficient financing will be available or, if available, will be available on economically feasible terms or on terms acceptable to us.  Additional borrowing for working capital purposes will increase our interest expense, and therefore our financial condition and our ability to pay cash distributions to our shareholders may be adversely affected. In addition, we may be required to defer necessary improvements to our properties that may cause our properties to suffer from a greater risk of obsolescence or a decline in value, or a greater risk of decreased cash flow as a result of fewer potential tenants being attracted to our properties.  If this happens, we may not be able to maintain projected rental rates for affected properties, and our results of operations may be negatively impacted.. We have in the past and may continue to structure acquisitions of property in exchange for limited partnership units in our Operating Partnership on terms that could limit our liquidity or our flexibility.. We have in the past and may continue to acquire properties by issuing limited partnership units in our Operating Partnership (\"OP units\") in exchange for a property owner contributing property to the Operating Partnership.  If we enter into such transactions, in order to induce the contributors of such properties to accept OP units, rather than cash, in exchange for their properties, it may be necessary for us to provide them with additional incentives.  For instance, our Operating Partnership's limited partnership agreement provides that any holder of OP units may redeem such units for cash, or, at our option, common shares on a one-for-one basis.  We may, however, enter into additional contractual arrangements with contributors of property under which we would agree to redeem a contributor's OP units for our common shares or cash, at the option of the contributor, at set times.  If the contributor required us to redeem OP units for cash pursuant to such a provision, it would limit our liquidity and thus our ability to use cash to make other investments, satisfy other obligations or pay distributions.  Moreover, if we were required to redeem OP units for cash at a time when we did not have sufficient cash to fund the redemption, we might be required to sell one or more properties to raise funds to satisfy this obligation.  Furthermore, we might agree that if distributions the contributor received as a limited partner in our Operating Partnership did not provide the contributor with a defined return, then upon redemption of the contributor's OP units, we would pay the contributor an additional amount necessary to achieve that return.  Such a provision could further negatively impact our liquidity and flexibility.  Finally, in order to allow a contributor of a property to defer taxable gain on the contribution of property to our Operating Partnership, we might agree not to sell a contributed property for a defined period of time or until the contributor redeemed the contributor's OP units for cash or our common shares.  Such an agreement would prevent us from selling those properties, even if market conditions made such a sale favorable to us.. 13. Table of Contents. We may issue preferred shares with a preference in distributions over our common shares, and our ability to issue preferred shares and additional common shares may deter or prevent a sale of our common shares in which you could profit.. Our declaration of trust authorizes our board of trustees to issue up to 400,000,000 common shares and 50,000,000 preferred shares.  Our board of trustees may amend our declaration of trust from time to time to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares or the number of any class or series that we have authority to issue.  In addition, our board of trustees may classify or reclassify any unissued common shares or preferred shares and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares.  The terms of preferred shares could include a preference in distributions senior to our common shares.  If we authorize and issue preferred shares with a distribution preference senior to our common shares, payment of any distribution preferences of outstanding preferred shares would reduce the amount of funds available for the payment of distributions on our common shares.  Further, holders of preferred shares are normally entitled to receive a preference payment in the event we liquidate, dissolve or wind up before any payment is made to our common shareholders, likely reducing the amount our common shareholders would otherwise receive upon such an occurrence.  In addition, under certain circumstances, the issuance of preferred shares or a separate class or series of common shares may render more difficult or tend to discourage:. • a merger, tender offer or proxy contest;. • assumption of control by a holder of a large block of our shares; or. • removal of incumbent management.. Risks Associated with Income Tax Laws. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, our operations and distributions to shareholders would be adversely impacted.. We intend to continue to be organized and to operate so as to qualify as a REIT under the Code.  A REIT generally is not taxed at the corporate level on income it currently distributes to its shareholders.  Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex rules for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations.  The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to continue to qualify as a REIT.  In addition, new legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws, possibly with retroactive effect, with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification.. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year:. • we would not be allowed to deduct our distributions to shareholders when computing our taxable income;. • we would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates;. • we would be disqualified from being taxed as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions;. • our cash available for distributions to shareholders would be reduced; and. • we may be required to borrow additional funds or sell some of our assets in order to pay corporate tax obligations that we may incur as a result of our disqualification.. We may need to incur additional borrowings to meet the REIT minimum distribution requirement and to avoid excise tax.. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we are required to distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our annual real estate investment trust taxable income (excluding any net capital gain and before application of the dividends paid deduction).  In addition, we are subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which certain distributions paid by us with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of (i) 85% of our ordinary income for that year, (ii) 95% of our net capital gain for that year and (iii) 100% of our undistributed taxable income from prior years.  Although we intend to pay distributions to our shareholders in a manner that allows us to meet the 90% distribution requirement and avoid this 4% excise tax, we cannot assure you that we will always be able to do so.. 14. Table of Contents. Our income consists almost solely of our share of our Operating Partnership's income, and the cash available for distribution by us to our shareholders consists of our share of cash distributions made by our Operating Partnership.  Because we are the sole general partner of our Operating Partnership, our board of trustees determines the amount of any distributions made by our Operating Partnership.  Our board of trustees may consider a number of factors in authorizing distributions, including:. • the amount of cash available for distribution;. • our Operating Partnership's financial condition;. • our Operating Partnership's capital expenditure requirements; and. • our annual distribution requirements necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT.. Differences in timing between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses and the inclusion of income and deduction of expenses when determining our taxable income, as well as the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures and the creation of reserves or required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow funds on a short-term or long-term basis or make taxable distributions to our shareholders of our shares or debt securities to meet the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid the 4% excise tax described above.  In these circumstances, we may need to borrow funds to avoid adverse tax consequences even if our management believes that the then prevailing market conditions generally are not favorable for borrowings or that borrowings would not be advisable in the absence of the tax consideration.. If our Operating Partnership were classified as a \"publicly traded partnership\" taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes under the Code, we would cease to qualify as a REIT and would suffer other adverse tax consequences.. We structured our Operating Partnership so that it would be classified as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.  In this regard, the Code generally classifies \"publicly traded partnerships\" (as defined in Section 7704 of the Code) as associations taxable as corporations (rather than as partnerships), unless substantially all of their taxable income consists of specified types of passive income.  In order to minimize the risk that the Code would classify our Operating Partnership as a \"publicly traded partnership\" for tax purposes, we placed certain restrictions on the transfer and/or redemption of partnership units in our Operating Partnership.  If the Internal Revenue Service were to assert successfully that our Operating Partnership is a \"publicly traded partnership,\" and substantially all of its gross income did not consist of the specified types of passive income, the Code would treat our Operating Partnership as an association taxable as a corporation.. In such event, the character of our assets and items of gross income would change and would prevent us from continuing to qualify as a REIT.  In addition, the imposition of a corporate tax on our Operating Partnership would reduce our amount of cash available for payment of distributions by us to our shareholders.. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments.. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our shareholders and the ownership of our shares.  In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego investments we might otherwise make.  Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our performance.. In particular, we must ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified real estate assets.  The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer.  In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 20% of the value of our total assets can be represented by the securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries.  If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences.   As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments.  These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our shareholders.. 15. Table of Contents. Recent changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws, including the enactment of certain tax reform measures, could have an adverse impact on the economy, our tenants and our business and financial results.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed the legislation (the \"Tax Reform Legislation\") commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act into law, which, among other changes:. • Reduces the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% (including with respect to our taxable REIT subsidiaries);. • Reduces the rate of U.S. federal withholding tax on distributions made to non-U.S. shareholders by a REIT that are attributable to gains from the sale or exchange of U.S. real property interests from 35% to 21%;. • Allows an immediate 100% deduction of the cost of certain capital asset investments (generally excluding real estate assets), subject to a phase-down of the deduction percentage over time;. • Changes the recovery periods for certain real property and building improvements (for example, to 15 years for qualified improvement property under the modified accelerated cost recovery system, and to 30 years (previously 40 years) for residential real property and 20 years (previously 40 years) for qualified improvement property under the alternative depreciation system);. • Restricts the deductibility of interest expense by businesses (generally, to 30% of the business' adjusted taxable income) except, among others, real property businesses electing out of such restriction; generally, we expect our business to qualify as such a real property business, but businesses conducted by our taxable REIT subsidiaries may not qualify and we have not yet determined whether we will make such election;. • Requires the use of the less favorable alternative depreciation system to depreciate real property in the event a real property business elects to avoid the interest deduction restriction above;. • Restricts the benefits of like-kind exchanges that defer capital gains for tax purposes to exchanges of real property;. • Requires accrual method taxpayers to take certain amounts in income no later than the taxable year in which such income is taken into account as revenue in an applicable financial statement prepared under U.S generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\"), which, with respect to certain leases, could accelerate the inclusion of rental income;. • Eliminates the corporate alternative minimum tax;. • Reduces the highest marginal income tax rate for individuals to 37% from 39.6% (excluding, in each case, the 3.8% Medicare tax on net investment income);. • Generally allows a deduction for individuals equal to 20% of certain income from pass-through entities, including ordinary dividends distributed by a REIT (excluding capital gain dividends and qualified dividend income), generally resulting in a maximum effective federal income tax rate applicable to such dividends of 29.6% compared to 37% (excluding, in each case, the 3.8% Medicare tax on net investment income); and. • Limits certain deductions for individuals, including deductions for state and local income taxes, and eliminates deductions for miscellaneous itemized deductions (including certain investment expenses).. Many of the provisions in the Tax Reform Legislation expire in seven years (at the end of 2025). As a result of the changes to U.S. federal tax laws implemented by the Tax Reform Legislation, our taxable income and the amount of distributions to our stockholders required in order to maintain our REIT status, and our relative tax advantage as a REIT, may significantly change.. 16. Table of Contents. The Tax Reform Legislation is a far-reaching and complex revision to the U.S. federal income tax laws with disparate and, in some cases, countervailing impacts on different categories of taxpayers and industries, and will require subsequent rulemaking and interpretation in a number of areas.  The long-term impact of the Tax Reform Legislation on the economy, us, our investors, our tenants, the real estate industry and government revenues cannot be reliably predicted at this early stage of the new law's implementation. Furthermore, the Tax Reform Legislation may negatively impact certain of our tenants' operating results, financial condition, and future business plans.  The Tax Reform Legislation may also result in reduced government revenues, and therefore reduced government spending, which may negatively impact tenants that directly or indirectly rely on government funding.  There can be no assurance that the Tax Reform Legislation will not negatively impact our operating results, financial condition, and future business operations.  Additionally, the Tax Reform Legislation may be adverse to certain of our stockholders and other investors. Prospective investors are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the effect of the changes to the U.S. federal tax laws on an investment in our shares and other securities.. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends.. For non-corporate taxpayers the maximum tax rate applicable to \"qualified dividend income\" paid by regular \"C\" corporations to U.S. shareholders generally is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates on qualified dividend income. Instead, our ordinary dividends generally are taxed at the higher tax rates applicable to ordinary income, the current maximum rate of which is 37%. However, for taxable years prior to 2026, individual stockholders are generally allowed to deduct 20% of the aggregate amount of ordinary dividends distributed by us, subject to certain limitations, which would reduce the maximum marginal effective tax rate for individuals on the receipt of such ordinary dividends to 29.6%.. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities.. The REIT provisions of the Code substantially limit our ability to hedge our liabilities.  Any income from a hedging transaction that we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes, price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets does not constitute \"gross income\" for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests.  To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests.  As a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through taxable REIT subsidiaries.  This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because any taxable REIT subsidiary that we may form would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear.  In addition, losses in taxable REIT subsidiaries will generally not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward against future taxable income in the taxable REIT subsidiaries.. Pursuant to the Tax Protection Agreement, the amount that Pillarstone is required to indemnify the Operating Partnership for certain tax liabilities reduces over the term of the Tax Protection Agreement.. In connection with the Contribution (as defined below), on December 8, 2016, the Operating Partnership entered into a Tax Protection Agreement (the \"Tax Protection Agreement\") with Pillarstone Capital REIT (\"Pillarstone REIT\"), the general partner of Pillarstone, and Pillarstone pursuant to which Pillarstone agreed to indemnify the Operating Partnership for certain tax liabilities resulting from its recognition of income or gain prior to December 8, 2021 (a) if such liabilities result from a transaction involving a direct or indirect taxable disposition of all or a portion of the Pillarstone Properties or (b) if Pillarstone fails to maintain and allocate to the Operating Partnership for taxation purposes minimum levels of liabilities as specified in the Tax Protection Agreement, the result of which causes such recognition of income or gain and the Company incurs taxes that must be paid to maintain its REIT status for federal tax purposes.  However, the Tax Protection Agreement expires on the earlier of (x) December 8, 2021 and (y) the date on which the Operating Partnership disposes of 50% or more of the Pillarstone OP Units (as defined below) issued in connection with the Contribution.  Further, the amount that Pillarstone is required to indemnify the Operating Partnership reduces over the term of the Tax Protection Agreement as follows: on December 8th of each year, the amount of tax liability recognized by the Operating Partnership during that year that Pillarstone is required to indemnify is reduced by 20 percentage points.  Once the Tax Protection Agreement has expired, the Company could be subject to additional taxes upon the occurrence of certain events that must be paid to maintain its REIT status for federal tax purposes.. 17. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Shares. Increases in market interest rates may result in a decrease in the value of our common shares.. One of the factors that may influence the price of our common shares will be the dividend distribution rate on the common shares (as a percentage of the price of our common shares) relative to market interest rates.  If market interest rates rise, prospective purchasers of shares of our common shares may expect a higher distribution rate.  Higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds being available for distribution and, in fact, would likely increase our borrowing costs and might decrease our funds available for distribution.  We therefore may not be able, or we may not choose, to provide a higher distribution rate.  As a result, prospective purchasers may decide to purchase other securities rather than our common shares, which would reduce the demand for, and result in a decline in the market price of, our common shares.. Broad market fluctuations could negatively impact the market price of our common shares.. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many companies in industries similar or related to ours and that have been unrelated to these companies' operating performances.  These broad market fluctuations could reduce the market price of our common shares.  Furthermore, our operating results and prospects may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors or may be lower than those of companies with comparable market capitalizations.  Either of these factors could lead to a material decline in the market price of our common shares.. Maryland takeover statutes may deter others from seeking to acquire us and prevent shareholders from making a profit in such transactions.. The Maryland General Corporation Law (\"MGCL\") contains many provisions, such as the business combination statute and the control share acquisition statute, that are designed to prevent, or have the effect of preventing, someone from acquiring control of us.  The business combination statute, subject to limitations, prohibits certain business combinations between us and an \"interested shareholder\" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding voting shares or an affiliate or associate of our Company who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our then outstanding shares) or an affiliate of an interested shareholder for five years after the most recent date on which the person becomes an interested shareholder and thereafter imposes super-majority voting requirements on these combinations.  The control share acquisition statute provides that \"control shares\" of our Company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the shareholder (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), entitle the shareholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing trustees) acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of issued and outstanding control shares) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.. We are currently subject to the control share acquisition statute, although our board of trustees may amend our Amended and Restated Bylaws, or our bylaws, without shareholder approval, to exempt any acquisition of our shares from the statute.  Our board of trustees has adopted a resolution exempting any business combination with any person from the business combination statute.  The business combination statute (if our board of trustees revokes the foregoing exemption) and the control share acquisition statute could delay or prevent offers to acquire us and increase the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if such a transaction would be in our shareholders' best interest.. The MGCL, the Maryland REIT Law and our organizational documents limit shareholders' rights to bring claims against our officers and trustees.. The MGCL and the Maryland REIT Law provide that a trustee will not have any liability as a trustee so long as he performs his duties in good faith, in a manner he reasonably believes to be in our best interests, and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances.  In addition, our declaration of trust provides that no trustee or officer will be liable to us or to any shareholder for money damages except to the extent that (a) the trustee or officer actually received an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services, for the amount of the benefit or profit in money, property, or services actually received; or (b) a judgment or the final adjudication adverse to the trustee or officer is entered in a proceeding based on a finding in the proceeding the trustee's or officer's action or failure to act was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty and was material to the cause of action adjudicated in the proceeding.  Finally, our declaration of trust authorizes our Company to obligate itself, and our bylaws obligate us, to indemnify and advance expenses to our trustees and officers to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law.. 18. Table of Contents. Our classified board of trustees may prevent others from effecting a change in the control of our board of trustees.. We believe that classification of our board of trustees will help to assure the continuity and stability of our business strategies and policies as determined by the board of trustees.  However, the classified board provision could have the effect of making the replacement of incumbent trustees more time-consuming and difficult.  At least two annual meetings of shareholders, instead of one, will generally be required to effect a change in a majority of our board of trustees.  Thus, the classified board provision could increase the likelihood that incumbent trustees will retain their positions.  The staggered terms of trustees may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common shares or otherwise be in the best interest of the shareholders.. The terms of our employment agreements with our executive officers and severance arrangements with other employees and the terms of certain equity awards granted to our employees may deter others from seeking to acquire us or reduce the price of any such acquisition.. We have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers and severance arrangements with other of our employees, and have granted equity awards to a number of our employees.  In certain cases, upon a change of control acquisition of us, such agreements and awards would entitle the officer or employee to severance payments and vesting of otherwise unvested awards.  The cost of these payments and the impact of the vesting of such awards could deter a third party from seeking to acquire us or could cause the price payable to shareholders in connection with any such acquisition to be lower than it otherwise may have been.  These effects could delay or prevent offers to acquire us and increase the difficulty in consummating any such offers, even if such a transaction would be in our shareholders' best interests.. Future offerings of debt, which would be senior to our common shares upon liquidation, and/or preferred equity securities that may be senior to our common shares for purposes of distributions or upon liquidation, may adversely affect the market price of our common shares.. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred shares.  Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and preferred shares and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common shares.  Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders or reduce the market price of our common shares, or both.  Holders of our common shares are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution.  Our preferred shares, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on distribution payments that could limit our ability to pay distributions to the holders of our common shares.  Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings.  Thus, our common shareholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common shares and diluting their share holdings in us."
