[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business. Oil, natural gas and NGL prices are volatile. A sustained decline in oil, natural gas and NGL prices could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments.. The prices we receive for our oil, natural gas and NGL production heavily influence our revenue, profitability, access to capital, future rate of growth and the carrying value of our properties. Oil, natural gas and NGLs are commodities, and their prices may fluctuate widely in response to market uncertainty and to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs. Historically, oil, natural gas and NGL prices have been volatile. For example, commodity prices dropped significantly from 2014 highs of $107.95 per barrel of oil and $8.15 per MMBtu for natural gas down to lows of $26.19 per barrel of oil in February 2016 and $1.49 per MMBtu for natural gas in March 2016.  Since 2016, prices have generally increased. On February 26, 2018, the WTI spot price for oil was $63.81 per barrel and the Henry Hub spot price for natural gas was $2.60 per MMBtu.  Likewise, NGLs, which are made up of ethane, propane, isobutane, normal butane and natural gasoline, each of which have different uses and different pricing characteristics, have suffered significant recent declines in realized prices. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control, which include the following:. •  worldwide and regional economic conditions impacting the global supply and demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs;. •  the price and quantity of foreign imports of oil, natural gas and NGLs;. •  political and economic conditions in or affecting other producing regions or countries, including the Middle East, Africa, South America and Russia;. •  actions of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, its members and other state- controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls;. •  the level of global exploration, development and production;. •  the level of global inventories;. •  prevailing prices on local price indexes in the areas in which we operate;. •  the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of gathering and transportation facilities;. •  localized and global supply and demand fundamentals and transportation availability;. •  the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and transporting reserves;. •  weather conditions and natural disasters;. •  technological advances affecting energy consumption;. •  the price and availability of alternative fuels;. •  expectations about future commodity prices; and. •  U.S. federal, state and local and non-U.S. governmental regulation and taxes.. In the second half of 2014, oil prices began a rapid and significant decline as the global oil supply began to outpace demand. During 2015, 2016 and in 2017, the global oil supply has continued to outpace demand, resulting in persistently low realized prices for oil production. In general, this imbalance between supply and demand reflects the significant supply growth achieved in the United States as a result of shale drilling and oil production increases by certain other countries, including Russia and Saudi Arabia, as part of an effort to retain market share, combined with only modest demand growth in the United States and less-than-expected demand in other parts of the world, particularly in Europe and China. Although there has been a dramatic decrease in drilling activity in the industry, oil storage levels in the United States remain at historically high levels. Until supply and demand balance and the overhang in storage levels begins to decline, prices will likely remain under pressure. The U.S. dollar has also strengthened relative to other leading currencies, which has caused oil prices to weaken, as they are U.S. dollar-denominated. In addition, the lifting of economic sanctions on Iran has resulted in increasing supplies of oil from Iran, adding further downward pressure to oil prices. NGL prices generally correlate to the price of oil. Also adversely affecting the price for NGLs is the supply of NGLs in the United States, which has continued to grow due to an increase in industry participants targeting projects that produce NGLs in recent years. Prices for domestic natural gas began to decline during the third quarter of 2014 and remained weak throughout 2015 and 2016 and much of 2017. The declines in natural gas prices are primarily due to an imbalance between supply and demand across North America. The continued duration and magnitude of these commodity price declines cannot be accurately predicted. Compared to 2014, our realized oil price for 2015 fell 51% to $44.41 per barrel and our realized oil price for the year ended December 31, 2016 further decreased to $41.09 per barrel. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our realized oil price increased to $51.90 per barrel. Similarly, our realized natural gas price for 2015 decreased. 31. 41% to $2.60 per Mcf, and our realized price for NGLs declined 49% to $12.22 per barrel. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our realized price for natural gas increased to $2.93 per Mcf from $2.44 per Mcf in 2016, and our realized price for NGLs increased to $19.04 per barrel from $12.28 per barrel in 2016.. Lower commodity prices may reduce our cash flow and borrowing ability. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, our ability to develop future reserves could be adversely affected. Also, using lower prices in estimating proved reserves may result in a reduction in proved reserve volumes due to economic limits. In addition, sustained periods with oil and natural gas prices at levels lower than current WTI or Henry Hub strip prices may adversely affect our drilling economics and our ability to raise capital, which may require us to re-evaluate and postpone or eliminate our development program, and result in the reduction of some of our proved undeveloped reserves and related standardized measure. If we are required to curtail our drilling program, we may be unable to continue to hold leases that are scheduled to expire, which may further reduce our reserves. As a result, a substantial or extended decline in commodity prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to finance planned capital expenditures.. Our development projects and acquisitions require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain required capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our ability to access or grow production and reserves.. The oil and natural gas industry is capital-intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures related to our development projects and acquisitions. Our 2018 drilling and completion capital budget is $700 million to $800 million, which assumes consummation of the NLA Divestiture. We expect to fund our 2018 capital budget with cash generated by operations and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. However, our financing needs may require us to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity securities or the sale of assets. The issuance of additional indebtedness would require that an additional portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest and principal on our indebtedness, thereby further reducing our ability to use cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. The issuance of additional equity securities would be dilutive to our existing stockholders. The actual amount and timing of our future capital expenditures may differ materially from our estimates as a result of, among other things: commodity prices; actual drilling results; the availability of drilling rigs and other services and equipment; and regulatory, technological and competitive developments. A reduction in commodity prices from current levels may result in a decrease in our actual capital expenditures, which would negatively impact our ability to grow production.. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including:. •  the prices at which our production is sold;. •  our proved reserves;. •  the amount of hydrocarbons we are able to produce from existing wells;. •  our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves;. •  the amount of our operating expenses;. •  cash settlements from our derivative activities;. •  our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility; and. •  our ability to access the capital markets.. If our revenues or the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility decrease as a result of lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices, operational difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If cash flow generated by our operations or available borrowings under our revolving credit facility are insufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of the development of our properties, which in turn could lead to a decline in our reserves and production and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Part of our business strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application.. Our operations involve utilizing some of the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by us and our service providers. The difficulties we face drilling horizontal wells include:. •  landing our wellbore in the desired drilling zone;. •  staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation;. •  running our casing the entire length of the wellbore; and. 32. •  being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore.. Difficulties that we face while completing our wells include the following:. •  the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages;. •  the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and. •  the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage.. In addition, certain of the new techniques we are adopting may cause irregularities or interruptions in production due to offset wells being shut in and the time required to drill and complete multiple wells before any such wells begin producing. Furthermore, the results of drilling in new or emerging formations are more uncertain initially than drilling results in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established production. Newer and emerging formations and areas have limited or no production history and, consequently, we are more limited in assessing future drilling results in these areas. If our drilling results are less than anticipated, the return on our investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as we anticipated, and we could incur material write-downs of unevaluated properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future.. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our development, production and acquisition activities, which are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil and natural gas production.. Our decisions to develop or purchase prospects or properties will depend, in part, on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. For a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes, see \" - Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.\" In addition, our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain.. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled drilling projects, including:. •  delays imposed by, or resulting from, compliance with regulatory requirements, including limitations on wastewater disposal, emission of GHGs and hydraulic fracturing;. •  pressure or irregularities in geological formations;. •  shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel or in obtaining water for hydraulic fracturing activities;. •  equipment failures, accidents or other unexpected operational events;. •  lack of available gathering facilities or delays in construction of gathering facilities;. •  lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines;. •  adverse weather conditions;. •  issues related to compliance with environmental regulations;. •  environmental hazards, such as oil and natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and tank ruptures and unauthorized discharges of brine, well stimulation and completion fluids, toxic gases or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment;. •  declines in oil and natural gas prices;. •  limited availability of financing on acceptable terms;. •  title issues; and. •  other market limitations in our industry.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our debt obligations that may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our indebtedness obligations, including the 2025 Senior Notes and our revolving credit facility, depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of. 33. cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on the 2025 Senior Notes and our other indebtedness.. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of indebtedness may be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict business operations. The terms of our existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis, including the 2025 Senior Notes, would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. In the absence of sufficient cash flows and capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet debt service and other obligations. The indenture governing the 2025 Senior Notes restricts, and our revolving credit facility restricts, our ability to dispose of assets and imposes limitations on our use of proceeds from dispositions. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions, and the proceeds of any such disposition may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations.. Restrictions in our existing and future debt agreements could limit our growth and our ability to engage in certain activities.. The terms and conditions governing our indebtedness:. •  require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our existing debt, thereby reducing the cash available to finance our operations and other business activities and could limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. •  increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business;. •  limit our ability to access the capital markets to raise capital on favorable terms or to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions or to refinance existing indebtedness;. •  place restrictions on our ability to obtain additional financing, make investments, lease equipment, sell assets and engage in business combinations;. •  place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors with lower levels of indebtedness in relation to their overall size or less restrictive terms governing their indebtedness; and. •  limit management's discretion in operating our business.. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions and governmental regulation. We cannot be certain that our cash flow will be sufficient to allow us to pay the principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. If we do not have enough money, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or raise equity. We may not be able to refinance our debt, sell assets, borrow more money or raise equity on terms acceptable to us, if at all. For example, our existing and future debt agreements will require that we satisfy certain conditions, including coverage and leverage ratios, to borrow money. Our existing and future debt agreements will also restrict the payment of dividends and distributions by certain of our subsidiaries to us, which could affect our access to cash. In addition, our ability to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and future events and circumstances beyond our control. Failure to comply with these covenants would result in an event of default under our indebtedness, and such an event of default could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Any significant reduction in our borrowing base under the Credit Agreement as a result of the periodic borrowing base redeterminations or otherwise may negatively impact our ability to fund our operations.. The Credit Agreement limits the amounts we can borrow up to a borrowing base amount, which the lenders, in their sole discretion, will unilaterally determine based upon projected revenues from our oil, natural gas and NGL properties and our commodity derivative contracts. Such determinations will be made on a regular basis semi-annually (each a \"Scheduled Redetermination\"), at our option in connection with a material acquisition, at our option no more than twice in any fiscal year and at the option of lenders with more than 66.6% of the loans and commitments under the facility (the \"Required Lenders\") no more than twice in any fiscal year (each such redetermination other than a Scheduled Redetermination, an \"Interim Redetermination\" and any Scheduled Redetermination or Interim Redetermination, a \"Redetermination\"). In connection with a Redetermination, any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of the lenders holding 100% of the commitments, and maintaining or any decrease in the borrowing base requires the consent of the Required Lenders. The borrowing base will also automatically decrease upon the issuance of certain debt, the sale or other disposition of certain assets and the early termination of certain swap agreements. Our next Scheduled Redetermination is expected in April 2018.. 34. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under the Credit Agreement as a result of a decrease in our borrowing base due to the issuance of new indebtedness, the outcome of a Redetermination, or an unwillingness or inability on the part of lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations and the inability of other lenders to provide additional funding to cover a defaulting lender's portion. Declines in commodity prices could result in a determination to lower the borrowing base and, in such a case, we could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the redetermined borrowing base. As a result, we may be unable to implement our drilling and development plan, make acquisitions or otherwise carry out business plans, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our earnings.. We enter into derivative instrument contracts for a portion of our oil and natural gas production. As of February 12, 2018, we had entered into swaps, collars and deferred premium puts through December 2020 covering a total of 19.0 MMBbls of our projected oil production and 21.7 TBtu of our projected natural gas production. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in fair value of our derivative instruments.. Derivative instruments also expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when:. •  production is less than the volume covered by the derivative instruments;. •  the counterparty to the derivative instrument defaults on its contractual obligations;. •  there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual prices received; or. •  there are issues with regard to legal enforceability of such instruments.. The use of derivatives may, in some cases, require the posting of cash collateral with counterparties. If we enter into derivative instruments that require cash collateral and commodity prices or interest rates change in a manner adverse to us, our cash otherwise available for use in our operations would be reduced, which could limit our ability to make future capital expenditures and make payments on our indebtedness, and which could also limit the size of our borrowing base. Future collateral requirements will depend on arrangements with our counterparties, oil, natural gas and NGL prices and interest rates. In addition, derivative arrangements could limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs or from reductions in interest rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, the Credit Agreement limits our ability to enter into commodity hedges covering greater than 100% of our reasonably anticipated projected proved production for the first two years of the facility and 75% of reasonably anticipated projected proved production for the following three years.. Our derivative contracts expose us to risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. Disruptions in the financial markets could lead to sudden decreases in a counterparty's liquidity, which could make the counterparty unable to perform under the terms of the contract, and we may not be able to realize the benefit of the contract. We are unable to predict sudden changes in a counterparty's creditworthiness or ability to perform. Even if we do accurately predict sudden changes, our ability to negate the risk may be limited depending upon market conditions.. During periods of declining commodity prices or, to the extent we have interest rate derivative instrument contracts, increasing interest rates, our derivative contract receivable positions would generally increase, which increases our counterparty credit exposure. If the creditworthiness of our counterparties deteriorates and results in their nonperformance, we could incur a significant loss with respect to our derivative contracts.. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In order to prepare reserve estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds.. Actual future production, oil, natural gas and NGL prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary from our estimates. For instance, initial production rates reported by us or other operators may not be indicative of future or long-term production rates, our recovery efficiencies may be worse than expected and production declines may be greater than we estimate and may be more rapid and irregular when compared to initial production rates. In addition, we may adjust reserve estimates of proved reserves to reflect additional production history, results of development activities, current commodity prices and other existing factors. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. Moreover, there can be no assurance that our reserves will ultimately be produced or that our proved undeveloped reserves will be developed within the periods anticipated.. 35. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our reserves presented in this Annual Report is the current market value of our estimated reserves. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. For example, our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2017 and related standardized measure were calculated under SEC rules using twelve-month trailing average benchmark prices of $51.34 per barrel of oil (WTI) and $2.98 per MMBtu of natural gas (Henry Hub spot), which, for certain periods in 2017, were substantially higher than the available spot prices. If spot prices are below such calculated amounts, using more recent prices in estimating proved reserves may result in a reduction in proved reserve volumes due to economic limits.. The standardized measure of our estimated reserves is not an accurate estimate of the current fair value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves.. Standardized measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and natural gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. Standardized measure requires historical twelve-month pricing as required by the SEC as well as operating and development costs prevailing as of the date of computation. Consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and natural gas production because of varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and natural gas properties. In addition, WHR II and Esquisto were generally not subject to U.S. federal, state or local income taxes other than certain state franchise taxes and federal income tax on one of our predecessor's subsidiaries.  We are subject to U.S. federal, state and local income taxes. As a result, estimates included herein of future net cash flow may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received. Therefore, the Standardized measure of our estimated reserves included in this Annual Report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current fair value of our proved reserves.. Properties we acquire may not produce as projected, and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties that we acquire or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities.. Acquiring oil and natural gas properties requires us to assess reservoir and infrastructure characteristics, including recoverable reserves, future oil and gas prices and their applicable differentials, development and operating costs, and potential liabilities, including environmental liabilities. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Such assessments are inexact and inherently uncertain. For these reasons, the properties we have acquired or will acquire in the future in connection with the acquisitions or otherwise may not produce as expected. In connection with the assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties, but such a review may not reveal all existing or potential problems. In the course of our due diligence, we may not review every well, pipeline or associated facility. We cannot necessarily observe structural and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, when a review is performed. We may be unable to obtain contractual indemnities from the seller for liabilities created prior to our purchase of the property. We may be required to assume the risk of the physical condition of the properties in addition to the risk that the properties may not perform in accordance with our expectations.. We will not be the operator on all of our acreage or drilling locations, and, therefore, we will not be able to control the timing of exploration or development efforts, associated costs, or the rate of production of any non- operated assets and could be liable for certain financial obligations of the operators or any of our contractors to the extent such operator or contractor is unable to satisfy such obligations.. We have identified 6,069 potential drilling locations on our acreage. We do not expect to operate 1,480 of such locations, and there is no assurance that we will operate all of our other drilling locations. In addition, unless we are successful in increasing our working interest in our other drilling locations through acreage exchanges and consolidation efforts, we will not be the operator with respect to these other identified horizontal drilling locations. We have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of the drilling locations operated by our partners, and there is the risk that our partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours. Furthermore, the success and timing of development activities operated by our partners will depend on a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control, including:. •  the timing and amount of capital expenditures;. •  the operator's expertise and financial resources;. •  the approval of other participants in drilling wells;. •  the selection of technology; and. •  the rate of production of reserves, if any.. This limited ability to exercise control over the operations and associated costs of some of our drilling locations could prevent the realization of targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities.. Further, we may be liable for certain financial obligations of the operator of a well in which we own a working interest to the extent such operator becomes insolvent and cannot satisfy such obligations.  Similarly, we may be liable for certain obligations of our. 36. contractors to the extent such contractor becomes insolvent and cannot satisfy their obligations. The satisfaction of such obligations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. Our identified drilling locations are scheduled out over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. In addition, we may not be able to raise the substantial amount of capital that would be necessary to drill such locations.. Our management and technical teams have specifically identified and scheduled certain drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, access to and availability of water sourcing and distribution systems, regulatory approvals, the cooperation of other working interest owners and other factors. Because of these uncertain factors, we do not know if the numerous drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce natural gas or oil from these or any other drilling locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the drilling locations are obtained, the leases for such acreage will expire. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified.. As of December 31, 2017, we had identified 4,675 gross horizontal drilling locations on our Eagle Ford Acreage and 1,394 gross horizontal drilling locations on our North Louisiana Acreage. As a result of the limitations described in this Annual Report, we may be unable to drill many of our identified locations. In addition, we will require significant additional capital over a prolonged period in order to pursue the development of these locations, and we may not be able to raise or generate the capital required to do so. See \" - Our development projects and acquisitions require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain required capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our ability to access or grow production and reserves.\" Any drilling activities we are able to conduct on these locations may not be successful, may not result in production or additions to our estimated proved reserves and could result in a downward revision of our estimated proved reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility or our future business and results of operations. Additionally, if we curtail our drilling program, we may lose a portion of our acreage through lease expirations and may be required to reduce our estimated proved reserves, which could reduce the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility.. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage or the leases are renewed.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 67% of our total net acreage was held by production. The leases for our net acreage not held by production will expire at the end of their primary term unless production is established in paying quantities under the units containing these leases or the leases are renewed. For example, as of December 31, 2017, approximately 14% and 11% of our net undeveloped acreage was set to expire in 2018 and 2019, respectively. If our leases expire and we are unable to renew the leases, we will lose our right to develop the related properties. Although we intend to extend substantially all of our net acreage associated with identified drilling locations through a combination of development drilling, the payment of pre-agreed leasehold extension and renewal payments pursuant to an option to extend or the negotiation of lease extensions, we may not be successful in extending our leases. Additionally, where we do not have options to extend a lease, we may not be successful in negotiating extensions or renewals or any payments related to such extensions or renewals may be more than anticipated. Please see \"Item 1. Business - Development of Proved Undeveloped Reserves - Undeveloped Acreage Expirations\" for more information regarding acreage expirations and our plans for extending and renewing our acreage. Our ability to drill and develop our acreage and establish production to maintain our leases depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil, natural gas and NGL prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, access to and availability of water sourcing and distribution systems, regulatory approvals and other factors.. Adverse weather conditions may negatively affect our operating results and our ability to conduct drilling activities.. Adverse weather conditions may cause, among other things, increases in the costs of, and delays in, drilling or completing new wells, power failures, temporary shut-in of production and difficulties in the transportation of our oil, natural gas and NGLs. Any decreases in production due to poor weather conditions will have an adverse effect on our revenues, which will in turn negatively affect our cash flow from operations.. Our operations are substantially dependent on the availability of water. Restrictions on our ability to obtain water may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Water is an essential component of oil and natural gas production during both the drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Drought conditions have persisted in our areas of operation in past years. These drought conditions have led governmental authorities to restrict the use of water, subject to their jurisdiction, for hydraulic fracturing to protect local water supplies. If we are unable to obtain water to use in our operations, we may be unable to economically produce oil and natural gas, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 37. Following the consummation of the NLA Divestiture, our producing properties will be located in the Eagle Ford, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in a limited geographic area.. Following the consummation of the NLA Divestiture, all of our producing properties will be geographically concentrated in the Eagle Ford. At December 31, 2017, all of our total estimated proved reserves were attributable to properties located in the Eagle Ford and in North Louisiana. However, the sale of our NLA Assets, which includes all of our assets in North Louisiana, is expected to close by the end of March 2018. As a result of, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in the Eagle Ford caused by governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints, market limitations, availability of equipment and personnel, water shortages or other drought related conditions or interruption of the processing or transportation of oil, natural gas or NGLs.. The marketability of our production is dependent upon transportation and other facilities, certain of which we do not control. If these facilities are unavailable, our operations could be interrupted and our revenues reduced.. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of transportation facilities owned by third parties. Our oil production is transported from the wellhead to our tank batteries by our gathering systems. The oil is then transported by the purchaser by truck to a transportation facility. Our natural gas production is generally transported by our or third-party gathering lines from the wellhead to a gas processing facility or transmission pipeline. We do not control these trucks and other third-party transportation facilities and our access to them may be limited or denied. Insufficient production from our wells to support the construction of pipeline facilities by our purchasers or a significant disruption in the availability of our or third-party transportation facilities or other production facilities could adversely impact our ability to deliver to market or produce our oil and natural gas and thereby cause a significant interruption in our operations. If, in the future, we are unable, for any sustained period, to implement acceptable delivery or transportation arrangements or encounter production related difficulties, we may be required to shut in or curtail production. Any such shut-in or curtailment, or an inability to obtain favor able terms for delivery of the oil and natural gas produced from our fields, would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We may incur losses as a result of title defects in the properties in which we invest.. The existence of a material title deficiency can render a lease worthless and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. While we typically obtain title opinions prior to commencing drilling operations on a lease or in a unit, the failure of title may not be discovered until after a well is drilled, in which case we may lose the lease and the right to produce all or a portion of the minerals under the property.. The development of our estimated PUDs may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Therefore, our estimated PUDs may not be ultimately developed or produced.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 75% of our total estimated proved reserves were classified as proved undeveloped.  Development of these proved undeveloped reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Estimated future development costs relating to the development of our PUDs at December 31, 2017 are approximately $3.85 billion over the next five years. We expect to fund these expenditures through cash generated by operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and other sources of capital. Our ability to fund these expenditures is subject to a number of risks. See \" - Our development projects and acquisitions require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain required capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our ability to access or grow production and reserves.\" Delays in the development of our reserves, increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves or decreases in commodity prices will reduce the value of our estimated PUDs and future net revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic. In addition, delays in the development of reserves could cause us to have to reclassify our PUDs as unproved reserves. Furthermore, there is no certainty that we will be able to convert our PUDs to developed reserves or that our undeveloped reserves will be economically viable or technically feasible to produce.. Further, SEC rules require that, subject to limited exceptions, PUDs may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years after the date of booking. This requirement has limited and may continue to limit our ability to book additional PUDs as we pursue our drilling program. As a result, we may be required to write down our PUDs if we do not drill those wells within the required five-year timeframe.. Certain factors could require us to write-down the carrying values of our properties, including commodity prices decreasing to a level such that our future undiscounted cash flows from our properties are less than their carrying value.. Accounting rules require that we periodically review the carrying value of our properties for possible impairment. Based on prevailing commodity prices and specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write-down the carrying value of our properties. A write-down constitutes a non-cash impairment charge to earnings. Commodity prices dropped significantly from 2014 highs of $107.95 per barrel of oil and $8.15 per MMBtu for natural gas down to lows of $26.19 per barrel of oil in February 2016 and $1.49 per MMBtu in March 2016.  Since 2016, prices have generally increased. On February 26, 2018, the WTI spot price for crude oil was $63.81 per barrel and the Henry Hub spot price for natural gas was $2.60 per MMBtu.. 38. Likewise, NGLs have suffered significant recent declines in realized prices. Lower commodity prices in the future could result in impairments of our properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken. As a result of lower commodity prices, we recorded $9.3 million of impairment expense during the year ended December 31, 2015. We could experience further material write-downs as a result of lower commodity prices or other factors, including low production results or high lease operating expenses, capital expenditures or transportation fees.. Unless we replace our reserves with new reserves and develop those new reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our future cash flows and results of operations.. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Unless we conduct successful ongoing exploration and development activities or continually acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Our future reserves and production, and therefore our future cash flow and results of operations, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace our current and future production. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, the value of our reserves will decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.. Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce or slow the demand for oil and natural gas.. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil, natural gas and NGLs, technological advances in fuel economy and developments in energy generation and storage devices could reduce or slow the demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs. The impact of the changing demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We depend upon a small number of significant purchasers for the sale of most of our oil, natural gas and NGL production.. We normally sell our production to a relatively small number of customers, as is customary in our business. For the year ended December 31, 2017, there were two purchasers who accounted for an aggregate 56% and 21%, respectively, of our total revenue. No other purchaser accounted for 10% or more of our revenues. The loss of any such greater than 10% purchaser as a purchaser could adversely affect our revenues in the short term.  See \"Item 1. Business - Our Operations - Marketing and Customers\" for additional information.. Our operations may be exposed to significant delays, costs and liabilities as a result of environmental and occupational health and safety requirements applicable to our business activities.. Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, health and safety aspects of our operations or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations applicable to our operations, including the acquisition of a permit or other approval before conducting regulated activities; the restriction of types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment; the limitation or prohibition of drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, seismically active areas and other protected areas; the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection; and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them. Such enforcement actions often involve difficult and costly compliance measures or corrective actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, natural resource damages, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations, and the issuance of orders limiting or prohibiting some or all of our operations. In addition, we may experience delays in obtaining, or be unable to obtain, required permits, which may delay or interrupt our operations and limit our growth and revenue.. Certain environmental laws impose strict liability (i.e., no showing of \"fault\" is required) as well as joint and several liability for costs required to remediate and restore sites where hazardous substances, hydrocarbons or solid wastes have been stored or released. We may be required to remediate contaminated properties currently or formerly owned or operated by us or facilities of third parties that received waste generated by our operations regardless of whether such contamination resulted from the conduct of others or from consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In connection with certain acquisitions, we could acquire, or be required to provide indemnification against, environmental liabilities that could expose us to material losses. In certain instances, citizen groups also have the ability to bring legal proceedings against us if we are not in compliance with environmental laws, or to challenge our ability to receive environmental permits that we need to operate. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property, including natural resources, may result from the environmental, health and safety impacts of our operations. Our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage if an environmental claim is made against us. Moreover, public interest in the protection of the environment has increased dramatically in recent years. The trend of more expansive and stringent environmental legislation and regulations applied to the crude oil and natural gas industry could continue, resulting in increased costs of doing business and consequently affecting profitability.. 39. To the extent laws are enacted or other governmental action is taken that restricts drilling or imposes more stringent and costly operating, waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements, our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our operations. Additionally, we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks.. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our development activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of:. •  environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable releases of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater, air and shoreline contamination;. •  abnormally pressured formations;. •  mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and casing collapse;. •  fires, explosions and ruptures of pipelines;. •  personal injuries and death;. •  natural disasters; and. •  terrorist attacks targeting oil and natural gas related facilities and infrastructure.. Any of these events could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial loss to us as a result of claims for:. •  injury or loss of life;. •  damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;. •  pollution and other environmental damage;. •  regulatory investigations and penalties; and. •  repair and remediation costs.. We may elect not to obtain insurance for any or all of these risks if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is difficult to evaluate because we have a limited operating history, and we are susceptible to the potential difficulties associated with rapid growth and expansion.. WHR II and Esquisto were formed in 2013 and 2014, respectively. As a result, there is only limited historical financial and operating information available upon which to base your evaluation of our performance.. In addition, we have grown rapidly over the last several years. Our management believes that our future success depends on our ability to manage the rapid growth that we have experienced and the demands from increased responsibility on management personnel. Additionally, the following factors could present difficulties:. •  increased responsibilities for our executive level personnel;. •  increased administrative burden;. •  increased capital requirements; and. •  increased organizational challenges common to large, expansive operations.. Our operating results could be adversely affected if we do not successfully manage these potential difficulties. The historical financial information incorporated herein is not necessarily indicative of the results that may be realized in the future. In addition, our operating history is limited and the results from our current producing wells are not necessarily indicative of success from our future drilling operations.. 40. Properties that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities.. Properties that we decide to drill that do not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of micro-seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercial quantities. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling prospects. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of numerous factors, including:. •  unexpected drilling conditions;. •  title issues;. •  pressure or lost circulation in formations;. •  equipment failures or accidents;. •  adverse weather conditions;. •  compliance with environmental and other governmental or contractual requirements; and. •  increases in the cost of, and shortages or delays in the availability of, electricity, supplies, materials, drilling or workover rigs, equipment and services.. We may be unable to make attractive acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired businesses, and any inability to do so may disrupt our business and hinder our ability to grow.. In the future we may make acquisitions of assets or businesses that complement or expand our current business. However, there is no guarantee we will be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities. In the event we are able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to complete the acquisition or do so on commercially acceptable terms. Competition for acquisitions may also increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions.. The success of completed acquisitions will depend on our ability to integrate effectively the acquired business into our existing operations. The process of integrating acquired businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our managerial and financial resources. In addition, possible future acquisitions may be larger and for purchase prices significantly higher than those paid for earlier acquisitions. No assurance can be given that we will be able to identify additional suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms, obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets. Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to integrate the acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, the agreements governing our indebtedness impose certain limitations on our ability to enter into mergers or combination transactions and to incur certain indebtedness, which could indirectly limit our ability to acquire assets and businesses.. Our pending NLA Divestiture may not be consummated.. Our pending NLA Divestiture is expected to close by the end of March 2018 and is subject to customary closing conditions. If these conditions are not satisfied or waived, the NLA Divestiture will not be consummated. If the closing of the NLA Divestiture is substantially delayed or does not occur at all, or if the terms of the NLA Divestiture are required to be modified substantially, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the NLA Divestiture fully or at all. Certain of the conditions remaining to be satisfied include:. •  the continued accuracy of the representations and warranties contained in the Purchase and Sale Agreement;. •  the performance by each party of its obligations under the Purchase and Sale Agreement;. •  the absence of any order from any governmental authority that enjoins, restrains or otherwise prohibits, or of any law being enacted that would enjoin or prohibit, the consummation of the transactions contemplated in the Purchase and Sale Agreement; and. •  the absence of any material suit, action, litigation or other proceeding instituted by any governmental authority that seeks to restrain, prohibit, enjoin or declare illegal, or seeking substantial damages in connection with, the consummation of the transactions contemplated in the Purchase and Sale Agreement.. The parties may terminate the Purchase and Sale Agreement by mutual written consent or if certain closing conditions have not been satisfied, if total adjustments to the sales price exceed 20% of the sales price, or approximately $43 million, or if the transaction has not closed on or before April 30, 2018.. 41. Certain of our properties are subject to land use restrictions, which could limit the manner in which we conduct our business.. Certain of our properties are subject to land use restrictions, including city ordinances, which could limit the manner in which we conduct our business. Such restrictions could affect, among other things, our access to and the permissible uses of our facilities as well as the manner in which we produce oil and natural gas and may restrict or prohibit drilling in general. The costs we incur to comply with such restrictions may be significant in nature, and we may experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of development activities and perhaps even be precluded from the drilling of wells.. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our development plans within our budget and on a timely basis.. The demand for drilling rigs, pipe and other equipment and supplies, as well as for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry, can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil, natural gas and NGL prices, causing periodic shortages of supplies and needed personnel. Our operations are concentrated in areas in which oilfield activity levels had increased rapidly, and as a result, demand for such drilling rigs, equipment and personnel, as well as access to transportation, processing and refining facilities in these areas, had increased, as did the costs for those items. However, beginning in the second half of 2014, commodity prices began to decline and the demand for goods and services subsided due to reduced activity. To the extent that commodity prices improve in the future, the demand for and prices of these goods and services are likely to increase and we could encounter delays in or an inability to secure the personnel, equipment, power, services, resources and facilities access necessary for us to resume or increase our development activities, which could result in production volumes being below our forecasted volumes. In addition, any such negative effect on production volumes, or significant increases in costs, could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and profitability. Furthermore, if we are unable to secure a sufficient number of drilling rigs at reasonable costs, we may not be able to drill all of our acreage before our leases expire.. We could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. These increases could reduce our profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned.. Historically, our capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, natural gas and NGL prices. These cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond our control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that we and our vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased taxes. Decreased levels of drilling activity in the oil and natural gas industry in recent periods have led to declining costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. However, such costs may rise faster than increases in our revenue if commodity prices rise, thereby negatively impacting our profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. This impact may be magnified to the extent that our ability to participate in the commodity price increases is limited by our derivative activities.. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase.. Section 1(b) of the NGA exempts natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by the FERC, as a natural gas company under the NGA. We believe that the natural gas pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish a pipeline's status as a gatherer not subject to regulation as a natural gas company. However, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of ongoing litigation, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts or Congress. If the FERC were to consider the status of an individual facility and determine that the facility and/or services provided by it are not exempt from FERC regulation, the rates for, and terms and conditions of services provided by such facility would be subject to regulation by the FERC. Such regulation could decrease revenues, increase operating costs, and depending upon the facility in question, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if any of our facilities were found to have provided services or otherwise operated in violation of the NGA, this could result in the imposition of civil penalties as well as a requirement to disgorge charges collected for such service in excess of the cost-based rate established by the FERC.. State regulation of gathering facilities generally includes various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take requirements and complaint-based rate regulation. We cannot predict what new or different regulations federal and state regulatory agencies may adopt, or what effect subsequent regulation may have on our activities. Such regulations may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, result of operations and cash flows.. We may be involved in legal proceedings that could result in substantial liabilities.. Like many oil and gas companies, we are from time to time involved in various legal and other proceedings, such as title, royalty or contractual disputes, regulatory compliance matters and personal injury or property damage matters, in the ordinary course of our business. Such legal proceedings are inherently uncertain and their results cannot be predicted. Regardless of the outcome, such proceedings could have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management and other personnel and other factors. In addition, it is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in liability, penalties or sanctions, as well as judgments, consent decrees or orders requiring a change in our business practices, which could materially and adversely affect our. 42. business, operating results and financial condition. Accruals for such liability, penalties or sanctions may be insufficient, and judgments and estimates to determine accruals or range of losses related to legal and other proceedings could change from one period to the next, and such changes could be material.. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce, while potential physical effects of climate change could disrupt our production and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects.. The EPA has determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment and has adopted regulations pursuant to the federal Clean Air Act to reduce GHG emissions from various sources. For example, the EPA requires certain large stationary sources to obtain preconstruction and operating permits for pollutants regulated under the Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V programs of the Clean Air Act. Facilities required to obtain preconstruction permits for such pollutants are also required to meet \"best available control technology\" standards that are being established by the states. These regulatory requirements could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified sources.. The EPA has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production sources in the United States on an annual basis, which include certain of our operations. In June 2016, the EPA published performance standards that establish new controls for emissions of methane from new, modified or reconstructed sources in the oil and natural gas sector, including production, processing, transmission and storage activities. Compliance will require enhanced record-keeping practices, the purchase of new equipment and could result in the increased frequency of maintenance and repair activities to address emissions leakage at well sites and compressor stations, and also may require additional personnel time to support these activities or the engagement of third-party contractors to assist with and verify compliance. Several states and industry groups have filed suit before the D.C. Circuit challenging the EPA's implementation of the methane rule and legal authority to issue the methane rule. However, over the past year the EPA has taken several steps to delay implementation of the June 2016 methane rule, and the agency proposed a separate rulemaking in June 2017 to stay the methane requirements for a period of two years and revisit implementation of the standards in their entirety. The EPA has not yet published a final rule but, even though the rule is currently in effect, future implementation and enforcement of the 2016 standards is uncertain at this time.. There has been no significant activity with respect to federal legislation to reduce GHG emissions in recent years. In the absence of such federal climate legislation, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at reducing GHG emissions by means of cap and trade programs, carbon taxes, or encouraging the use of renewable energy or alternative low-carbon fuels. Cap and trade programs typically require major sources of GHG emissions to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. In addition, efforts have been made and continue to be made in the international community toward the adoption of international treaties or protocols that would address global climate change issues. For example, in April 2016, the United States signed the Paris Agreement, which requires member nations to review and \"represent a progression\" in their intended nationally determined contributions, which set GHG emission reduction goals, every five years beginning in 2020. The Paris Agreement, which entered into force in November 2016, includes non-binding pledges to limit or reduce future emissions. However, in June 2017, the President stated that the United States would withdraw from the Paris Agreement, but may enter into a future international agreement related to GHGs. The Paris Agreement provides for a four-year exit process beginning when it took effect in November 2016, resulting in an effective exit date of November 2020. The United States' adherence to the exit process is uncertain and/or the terms on which the United States may reenter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time.. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations, as well as delay or restrict our ability to permit GHG emissions from new or modified sources. Substantial limitations on GHG emissions could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas we produce and lower the value of our reserves.. Recently, activists concerned about the potential effects of climate change have directed their attention at sources of funding for fossil-fuel energy companies, which has resulted in certain financial institutions, funds and other sources of capital restricting or eliminating their investment in oil and natural gas activities. Ultimately, this could make it more difficult to secure funding for exploration and production activities. Notwithstanding potential risks related to climate change, the International Energy Agency estimates that global energy demand will continue to rise and will not peak until after 2040 and that oil and gas will continue to represent a substantial percentage of global energy use over that time. Finally, increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. 43. Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing as well as governmental reviews of such activities could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells and adversely affect our production.. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of oil and/or natural gas from dense subsurface rock formations. The hydraulic fracturing process involves the injection of water, proppants and chemicals under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We regularly use hydraulic fracturing as part of our operations. Hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but certain federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. For example, the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority pursuant to the federal Safe Drinking Water Act (\"SDWA\") over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel fuels and published permitting guidance in February 2014 addressing the performance of such activities using diesel fuels. The EPA has also issued final regulations under the federal Clean Air Act establishing performance standards, including standards for the capture of air emissions released during hydraulic fracturing, and also finalized rules in June 2016 that prohibit the discharge of wastewater from hydraulic fracturing operations to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants.. In December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. The EPA report concluded that \"water cycle\" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources \"under some circumstances,\" noting that the following hydraulic fracturing water cycle activities and local- or regional-scale factors are more likely than others to result in more frequent or more severe impacts: water withdrawals for fracturing in times or areas of low water availability; surface spills during the management of fracturing fluids, chemicals or produced water; injection of fracturing fluids into wells with inadequate mechanical integrity; injection of fracturing fluids directly into groundwater resources; discharge of inadequately treated fracturing wastewater to surface waters; and disposal or storage of fracturing wastewater in unlined pits.. At the state level, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. For example, in May 2013, the Railroad Commission issued a \"well integrity rule,\" which updates the requirements for drilling, putting pipe down and cementing wells. The rule also includes new testing and reporting requirements, such as (i) the requirement to submit cementing reports after well completion or after cessation of drilling, whichever is later, and (ii) the imposition of additional testing on wells less than 1,000 feet below usable groundwater. The well integrity rule took effect in January 2014.. Local governments also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular. If new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of development activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells.. Legislation or regulatory initiatives intended to address seismic activity could restrict our drilling and production activities, as well as our ability to dispose of produced water gathered from such activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. State and federal regulatory agencies have recently focused on a possible connection between the hydraulic fracturing related activities, particularly the underground injection of wastewater into disposal wells, and the increased occurrence of seismic activity, and regulatory agencies at all levels are continuing to study the possible linkage between oil and gas activity and induced seismicity. For example, in 2015, the United States Geological Study identified eight states, including Texas, with areas of increased rates of induced seismicity that could be attributed to fluid injection or oil and gas extraction.. In addition, a number of lawsuits have been filed in other states, most recently in Oklahoma, alleging that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. In response to these concerns, regulators in some states are seeking to impose additional requirements, including requirements in the permitting of produced water disposal wells or otherwise to assess the relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. For example, in October 2014, the Railroad Commission published a new rule governing permitting or re-permitting of disposal wells that would require, among other things, the submission of information on seismic events occurring within a specified radius of the disposal well location, as well as logs, geologic cross sections and structure maps relating to the disposal area in question. If the permittee or an applicant of a disposal well permit fails to demonstrate that the produced water or other fluids are confined to the disposal zone or if scientific data indicates such a disposal well is likely to be or determined to be contributing to seismic activity, then the agency may deny, modify, suspend or terminate the permit application or existing operating permit for that well. The Railroad Commission has used this authority to deny permits for waste disposal wells. In some instances, regulators may also order that disposal wells be shut in. For example, in September 2016 the Oklahoma Corporations Commission ordered that all disposal wells with a certain proximity to a particular earthquake in central Oklahoma be shut in.. We dispose of large volumes of produced water gathered from our drilling and production operations by injecting it into wells pursuant to permits issued to us by governmental authorities overseeing such disposal activities. While these permits are issued pursuant to existing laws and regulations, these legal requirements are subject to change, which could result in the imposition of more stringent operating constraints or new monitoring and reporting requirements, owing to, among other things, concerns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such gathering or disposal activities. The adoption and implementation of any new laws or regulations that restrict our ability to use hydraulic fracturing or dispose of produced water gathered from our drilling and production. 44. activities by limiting volumes, disposal rates, disposal well locations or otherwise, or requiring us to shut down disposal wells, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties, market oil or natural gas and secure trained personnel.. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties for acquisitions and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. Many of our competitors possess and employ greater financial, technical and personnel resources than we do. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive properties and exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. In addition, other companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. The cost to attract and retain qualified personnel has historically continually increased due to competition and may increase substantially in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. NGP, Carlyle and their respective affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us, which could cause conflicts of interest and limit our ability to acquire additional assets or businesses.. Our governing documents provide that NGP and its affiliates (including NGP and its affiliates' portfolio investments) are not restricted from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In addition, NGP, Carlyle, and their respective affiliates may acquire, develop or dispose of additional oil and natural gas properties or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or develop any of those assets. NGP and Carlyle are established participants in the oil and natural gas industry, and each has resources greater than ours, which factors may make it more difficult for us to compete with them with respect to commercial activities as well as for potential acquisitions. As a result, competition from these affiliates could adversely impact our results of operations.. The loss of senior management or technical personnel could adversely affect operations.. We depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. The loss of the services of our senior management or technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business.. We require continued access to capital and our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. We expect to use our revolving credit facility to finance a portion of our future growth, and these changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flow used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. Recent and continuing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results.. Our use of seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of oil and natural gas, which could adversely affect the results of our drilling operations.. Even when properly used and interpreted, seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. As a result, our drilling activities may not be successful or economical. In addition, the use of advanced technologies, such as 3-D seismic data, requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and we could incur losses as a result of such expenditures.. Restrictions on drilling activities intended to protect certain species of wildlife may adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in areas where we operate.. Oil and natural gas operations in our operating areas may be adversely affected by seasonal or permanent restrictions on drilling activities designed to protect various wildlife. Such restrictions may limit our ability to operate in protected areas and can intensify competition for drilling rigs, oilfield equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages when drilling is allowed. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations or materially increase our operating and capital costs. Permanent restrictions imposed to protect threatened or endangered species or their habitat could prohibit drilling in certain areas or require the implementation of expensive mitigation measures. The designation of previously unprotected species in areas where we operate as threatened or endangered could cause us to incur increased costs arising from species protection. 45. measures or could result in limitations on our activities that could have a material and adverse impact on our ability to develop and produce our reserves.. The enactment of derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business.. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted on July 21, 2010, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and of entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The Dodd- Frank Act requires the CFTC and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the Dodd- Frank Act. In its rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC has proposed rules that would place limits on positions in certain core futures and equivalent swaps contracts for or linked to certain physical commodities, subject to exceptions for certain bona fide hedging transactions. As these new position limit rules are not yet final, the impact of those provisions on us is uncertain at this time.. The Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules also will require us, in connection with certain derivatives activities, to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements (or to take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements). In addition, the CFTC and certain banking regulators have adopted final rules establishing minimum margin requirements for uncleared swaps. Although we currently qualify for the end-user exception to the mandatory clearing, trade-execution and margin requirements for swaps entered to hedge our commercial risks, the application of such requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that we use for hedging. In addition, if any of our swaps do not qualify for the commercial end-user exception, posting of collateral could impact liquidity and reduce cash available to us for capital expenditures, therefore reducing our ability to execute hedges to reduce risk and protect cash flow.. It is not possible at this time to predict with certainty the full effects of the Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules on us or the timing of such effects. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, and reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures.. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil, natural gas and NGL prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil, natural gas and NGL. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material and adverse effect on us, our financial condition or our results of operations. In addition, the European Union and other non-U.S. jurisdictions are implementing regulations with respect to the derivatives market. To the extent we transact with counterparties in foreign jurisdictions, we may become subject to such regulations.. We may not be able to keep pace with technological developments in our industry.. The oil and natural gas industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancement and the introduction of new products and services using new technologies. As others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage or may be forced by competitive pressures to implement those new technologies at substantial costs. In addition, other oil and natural gas companies may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and that may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We may not be able to respond to these competitive pressures or implement new technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. If one or more of the technologies we use now or in the future were to become obsolete, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Our business could be adversely affected by security threats, including cyber-security threats, and related disruptions.. We rely heavily on our information systems, and the availability and integrity of these systems are essential for us to conduct our business and operations. As a producer of natural gas and oil, we face various security threats, including cyber-security threats, to gain unauthorized access to our sensitive information or to render our information or systems unusable, and threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure or third-party facilities and infrastructure, such as gathering and processing and other facilities, refineries and pipelines. The potential for such security threats subjects our operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate such security threats and to increase security for our information, systems, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased costs. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. If any of these security breaches were to occur, they could lead to losses of, or damage to, sensitive information or facilities, infrastructure and systems essential to our business and operations, as well as data corruption, communication interruptions or other disruptions to our operations, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. 46. Future regulations relating to and interpretations of recently enacted U.S. federal income tax legislation may vary from our current interpretation of such legislation.. The U.S. federal income tax legislation recently enacted in Public Law No. 115-97, commonly referred to as the Tax Act, is highly complex and subject to interpretation. The presentation of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our current interpretation of the provisions contained in the Tax Act. In the future, the Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service are expected to release regulations relating to and interpretive guidance of the legislation contained in the Tax Act. Any significant variance of our current interpretation of such legislation from any future regulations or interpretive guidance could result in a change to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and could negatively affect our business.. Risks Related To Our Capital Stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our common stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline.. We expect that the trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrades our common stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline.. Certain holders have the ability to direct the voting of a majority of our common stock, and their interests may conflict with those of our other stockholders.. NGP and its affiliates, through WildHorse Holdings, Esquisto Holdings, Acquisition Co. Holdings and NGP XI, beneficially own approximately 70.7% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, NGP is currently able to control matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, changes to our organizational documents and significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership makes it unlikely that any other holder or group of holders of our common stock will be able to affect the way we are managed or the direction of our business. The interests of such holders with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us, such as future acquisitions, financings and other corporate opportunities and attempts to acquire us, may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Given NGP's concentrated ownership, it would have to approve any potential acquisition of us. In addition, certain of our directors are currently employees of NGP or Carlyle. These directors' duties as employees of NGP or Carlyle, as applicable, may conflict with their duties as our directors, and the resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our or your best interest. Furthermore, we are party to a stockholders' agreement with WildHorse Holdings, Esquisto Holdings and Acquisition Co. Holdings that provides WildHorse Holdings and Esquisto Holdings with the right to designate a certain number of nominees to our board of directors so long as they, Acquisition Co. Holdings, NGP XI and their affiliates collectively beneficially own more than 5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Additionally, the Carlyle Investor, as a holder of Preferred Stock is entitled to elect (i) two directors to our board of directors for so long as the Carlyle Investor or its affiliates hold Preferred Stock and shares of our common stock, including shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of Preferred Stock, representing at least 10% of our outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis and  (ii) one board seat for so long as the Carlyle Investor or its affiliates hold Preferred Stock and shares of our common stock, including shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of Preferred Stock, representing 5% or more of our outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis. The existence of these significant stockholders, the stockholders' agreement and Carlyle's board appointment rights may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in the best interests of our company. Moreover, NGP's and Carlyle's concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock to the extent investors perceive a disadvantage in owning stock of a company with a significant stockholder.. Certain of our directors have significant duties with, and spend significant time serving, entities that may compete with us in seeking acquisitions and business opportunities and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in allocating time or pursuing business opportunities.. Certain of our directors, who are responsible for managing the direction of our operations and acquisition activities, hold positions of responsibility with other entities (including NGP-affiliated entities) that are in the business of identifying and acquiring oil and natural gas properties. For example, three of our directors (Messrs. Gieselman, Hayes and Weber) are Partners or Managing Partners of NGP, which is in the business of investing in oil and natural gas companies with independent management teams that seek to acquire oil and natural gas properties, and Mr. Brannon is President of certain NGP portfolio companies. The existing positions held by these directors may give rise to fiduciary or other duties that are in conflict with the duties they owe to us. These directors may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as to the other entities with which they are or may become affiliated. Due to these existing and potential future affiliations, they may present potential business opportunities to other entities prior to presenting them to us, which could cause additional conflicts of interest. They may also decide that certain opportunities are more. 47. appropriate for other entities with which they are affiliated, and as a result, they may elect not to present those opportunities to us. These conflicts may not be resolved in our favor.. NGP and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us, and the corporate opportunity provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation could enable NGP to benefit from corporate opportunities that might otherwise be available to us.. Our governing documents provide that NGP and its affiliates (including portfolio investments of NGP and its affiliates) are not restricted from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In particular, subject to the limitations of applicable law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, among other things:. •  permits NGP and its affiliates to conduct business that competes with us and to make investments in any kind of property in which we may make investments; and. •  provides that if NGP or any of its affiliates, or any employee, partner, member, manager, officer or director of NGP or its affiliates who is also one of our directors or officers, becomes aware of a potential business opportunity, transaction or other matter, they will have no duty to communicate or offer that opportunity to us.. Currently, NGP has multiple portfolio companies operating in the oil and natural gas industry, some of which may compete with us directly, including one company which operates in the broader Eagle Ford. Further, NGP or its affiliates may become aware, from time to time, of certain business opportunities (such as acquisition opportunities) and may direct such opportunities to other businesses in which they have invested, in which case we may not become aware of or otherwise have the ability or option to pursue such opportunity. Such businesses may choose to compete with us for these opportunities, possibly causing these opportunities to be unavailable to, or more expensive for, us to pursue. In this regard, we do not expect to enter into any agreement or arrangement with NGP and its affiliates to apportion opportunities between us, on the one hand, and NGP and its affiliates, on the other hand. In addition, NGP and its affiliates may dispose of oil and natural gas properties or other assets in the future without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of those assets. As a result, our renouncing our interest and expectancy in any business opportunity that may be, from time to time, presented to NGP or its affiliates could adversely impact our business or prospects if attractive business opportunities are procured by such parties for their own benefit rather than for ours.. NGP is an established participant in the oil and natural gas industry and has access to resources greater than ours, which may make it more difficult for us to compete with NGP and its affiliates for commercial activities and potential acquisitions. We cannot assure you that any conflicts that may arise between us and our stockholders, on the one hand, and NGP or its affiliates, on the other hand, will be resolved in our favor. As a result, competition from NGP and its affiliates could adversely impact our results of operations.. We are a \"controlled company\" and, as a result, qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements.. A group of stockholders that includes WildHorse Investment Holdings, Esquisto Investment Holdings, WildHorse Holdings, Esquisto Holdings, Acquisition Co. Holdings, NGP XI, NGP and certain of NGP's affiliates (collectively, the \"Sponsor Group\") beneficially control a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of our outstanding voting stock. As a result, we qualify as a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power for the election of directors is held by an individual, group or another company is a \"controlled company\" and may elect not to comply with certain applicable corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that:. •  a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors;. •  the nominating and corporate governance committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities;. •  the compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and. •  an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees be completed.. We utilize the foregoing exemptions from the applicable corporate governance requirements.  As a result, we do not have a majority of independent directors and do not have a compensation committee.  Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such corporate governance requirements.. 48. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your common stock at or above the price you paid for your common stock. The market price for our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, including:. •  our operating and financial performance and prospects;. •  changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts who track our common stock or industry;. •  market and industry perception of our success, or lack thereof, in pursuing our growth strategy; and. •  sales of common stock by us, our stockholders (including the Sponsor Group), or members of our management team.. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent years. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industries. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with us, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our share price.. We currently have no plans to pay regular dividends on our common stock, so you may not receive funds without selling your common stock.. We currently have no plans to pay regular dividends on our common stock. Any payment of dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and business opportunities, the restrictions in our debt agreements, and other considerations that our Board deems relevant. Accordingly, you may have to sell some or all of your common stock in order to generate cash flow from your investment.. Future sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could reduce our stock price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute your ownership in us.. We may sell additional shares of common stock in subsequent public offerings or otherwise, including to finance acquisitions. We may also issue convertible securities. For example, we issued and sold the Preferred Stock in connection with the Acquisition. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or securities convertible into common stock, or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including any shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock.. Each of WildHorse Holdings, Esquisto Holdings, Acquisition Co. Holdings, NGP XI, Jay Graham, Anthony Bahr, the Carlyle Investor and KKR are party to an amended and restated registration rights agreement, which requires us to effect the registration of their shares of our common stock in certain circumstances.. We filed a registration statement with the SEC on Form S-8 providing for the registration of 9,512,500 shares of our common stock issued or reserved for issuance under our WildHorse Resource Development Corporation 2016 Long Term Incentive Plan (\"2016 LTIP\"). Subject to the satisfaction of vesting conditions and the expiration of lock-up agreements, shares registered under our registration statement on Form S-8 are available for resale immediately in the public market without restriction.  As of December 31, 2017, we have 7,517,555 shares of our common stock available for issuance under the 2016 LTIP.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could deprive our investors of the opportunity to receive a premium for their shares.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock in one or more series, designate the number of shares constituting any series, and fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof, including dividend rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption, redemption price or prices and liquidation preferences of such series. For example, on June 30, 2017, in connection with the Acquisition, we issued the Preferred Stock that include various rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions. Please see Note 10 under \"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\" If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, the terms of such stock could cause it to be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include:. •  if at any time after the Sponsor Group no longer collectively own or control the voting of more than 50% of our outstanding common stock:. o  dividing our board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered three-year term;. 49. o  providing that all vacancies, including newly created directorships, may, except as otherwise required by law or, if applicable, subject to the rights of holders of a series of preferred stock, only be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum (prior to such time, vacancies may also be filled by stockholders holding a majority of the outstanding shares);. o  permitting any action by stockholders to be taken only at an annual meeting or special meeting rather than by a written consent of the stockholders, subject to the rights of any series of preferred stock with respect to such rights;. o  permitting special meetings of our stockholders to be called only by our board of directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the total number of authorized directors, whether or not there exist any vacancies in previously authorized directorships (prior to such time, a special meeting may also be called at the request of stockholders holding a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote); and. o  requiring the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% in voting power of all then outstanding common stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, to remove any or all of the directors from office at any time, and directors will be removable only for \"cause;\". •  prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors;. •  establishing advance notice provisions for stockholder proposals and nominations for elections to the board of directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders; and. •  providing that the board of directors is expressly authorized to adopt, or to alter or repeal our bylaws.. We have engaged in transactions with our affiliates and expect to do so in the future. The terms of such transactions and the resolution of any conflicts that may arise may not always be in our or our stockholders' best interests.. We have engaged in transactions and expect to continue to engage in transactions with affiliated companies. The resolution of any conflicts that may arise in connection with any related party transactions that we have entered into with NGP, WildHorse Holdings, Esquisto Holdings, Acquisition Co. Holdings or their affiliates, including pricing, duration or other terms of service, may not always be in our or our stockholders' best interests because NGP may have the ability to influence the outcome of these conflicts. For a discussion of potential conflicts, please read \" - Certain holders have the ability to direct the voting of a majority of our common stock, and their interests may conflict with those of our other stockholders.\". We may issue preferred stock, the terms of which could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock.. For example, on June 30, 2017, we issued and sold the Preferred Stock to the Carlyle Investor in exchange for $435.0 million. As of December 31, 2017, these shares represented approximately 24.3% of our outstanding common stock, on an as-converted basis. Among other rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, the holders of the Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, on an as-converted basis, together with holders of our common stock on all matters submitted to a vote of the holders of our common stock. As such, the initial issuance of the Preferred Stock to the Carlyle Investor and each subsequent increase in the Accreted Value of the Preferred Stock following an election by our board of directors to forego paying cash dividends on the Preferred Stock with respect to a given quarter, effectively reduce the relative voting power of the holders of our common stock.. In addition, the conversion of the Preferred Stock to common stock would dilute the ownership interest of existing holders of our common stock, and any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon conversion of the Preferred Stock could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.. Furthermore, the Carlyle Investor, as a holder of the Preferred Stock is entitled to elect (i) two directors to our board of directors for so long as the Carlyle Investor or its affiliates hold Preferred Stock and shares of our common stock, including shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of Preferred Stock, representing at least 10% of our outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis and (ii) one board seat for so long as the Carlyle Investor or its affiliates hold Preferred Stock and shares of our common stock, including shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of Preferred Stock, representing 5% or more of our outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis.. 50. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, including those relating to accounting standards and disclosure about our executive compensation, that apply to other public companies.. We are classified as an \"emerging growth company\" under the JOBS Act. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, which may be up to five full fiscal years, unlike other public companies, we will not be required to, among other things: (i) provide an auditor's attestation report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; (ii) comply with any new requirements adopted by the PCAOB requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer; (iii) provide certain disclosures regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies; or (iv) hold nonbinding advisory votes on executive compensation. We will remain an emerging growth company for up to five years, although we will lose that status sooner if we have more than $1.07 billion of revenues in a fiscal year, have more than $700.0 million in market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates, or issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period.. To the extent that we rely on any of the exemptions available to emerging growth companies, you will receive less information about our executive compensation and internal control over financial reporting than issuers that are not emerging growth companies. If some investors find our common stock to be less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, may strain our resources, increase our costs and require management's time, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner.. As a public company, we are required to comply with new laws, regulations and requirements, certain corporate governance provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, related regulations of the SEC and the requirements of the NYSE, which we were not required to comply with as a private company. We expect efforts to comply with these statutes, regulations and requirements may occupy a significant amount of time of our board of directors and management and may significantly increase our costs and expenses. As a public company, we are required to:. •  institute a more comprehensive compliance function;. •  comply with stock exchange rules;. •  continue to prepare and distribute periodic public reports in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws;. •  establish new internal policies, such as those relating to insider trading; and. •  involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the above activities.. Furthermore, while we generally must comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2017, we are not required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls until our first annual report subsequent to our ceasing to be an \"emerging growth company\" within the meaning of Section 2(a)(19) of the Securities Act. Accordingly, we may not be required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls until as late as our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2022. Once it is required to do so, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed. Compliance with these requirements may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner.. In addition, being a public company subject to these rules and regulations makes it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to. 51. any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each such case subject to such Court of Chancery having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants therein. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of, and consented to, the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation described in the preceding sentence. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which may have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock."
