[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Described below are certain risks that we believe apply to our business and the industry in which we operate. The following risk factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties highlighted represent the most significant risk factors that we believe may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity or access to sources of financing, and, consequently, the market value of our common stock. The risks and uncertainties discussed in this report are not exclusive and other risk factors that we may consider immaterial or do not anticipate may emerge as significant risks and uncertainties.. Competition. The markets for RVs and marine products are very competitive. Competitive factors in the industry include price, design, value, quality, service, brand awareness, and reputation. There can be no assurance that existing or new competitors will not develop products that are superior to our products or that achieve better consumer acceptance, thereby adversely affecting our market share, sales volume, and profit margins. Some of our competitors are much larger than we are and this size advantage provides these competitors with more financial resources and access to capital, additional purchasing power, and greater leverage with the dealer networks. In addition, competition could increase if new companies enter the market, existing competitors consolidate their operations, or if existing competitors expand their product lines or intensify efforts within existing product lines. Our current products, products under development, and our ability to develop new and improved products may be insufficient to enable us to compete effectively with our competitors. These competitive pressures may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Hiring Constraints and Retaining Key Employees. Our ability to meet our strategic objectives and otherwise grow our business will depend to a significant extent on the continued contributions of our leadership team. Our future success will also depend in large part on our ability to identify, attract, and retain other highly qualified managerial, technical, sales and marketing, operations, and customer service personnel. Competition for these individuals in our manufacturing markets is intense and supply is limited. We may not succeed in identifying, attracting, or retaining qualified personnel on a cost-effective basis. The loss or interruption of services of any of our key personnel, inability to identify, attract, or retain qualified personnel in the future, delays in hiring qualified personnel, or any employee work slowdowns, strikes, or similar actions could make it difficult for us to conduct and manage our business and meet key objectives, which could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results.. Production Disruptions. We currently manufacture most of our products in northern Iowa and northern Indiana. These facilities may be affected by natural or man-made disasters and other external events. In the event that one of our manufacturing facilities was affected by a disaster or other event, we could be forced to shift production to one of our other manufacturing facilities or to cease operations. Although we maintain insurance for damage to our property and disruption of our business from casualties, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses. Any disruption in our manufacturing capacity could have an adverse impact on our ability to produce sufficient inventory of our products or may require us to incur additional expenses in order to produce sufficient inventory, and therefore, may adversely affect our net sales and operating results. Any disruption or delay at our manufacturing facilities could impair our ability to meet the demands of our customers, and our customers may cancel orders or purchase products from our competitors, which could adversely affect our business and operating results.. 8. Table of Contents. The terms of our Credit Agreement could adversely affect our operating flexibility and pose risks of default under our Credit Agreement. We incurred substantial indebtedness to finance the acquisition of Grand Design. We entered into new asset-based revolving credit (\"ABL\") and term loan (\"Term Loan\") agreements (collectively, the \"Credit Agreement\") with JPMorgan Chase. Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, we have a $165.0 million ABL credit facility, which includes a $10.0 million letter of credit facility, and a $300.0 million term loan as of September 21, 2018.. The Credit Agreement is secured by certain assets, primarily cash, inventory, accounts receivable, and certain machinery and equipment. The Credit Agreement contains certain requirements, including affirmative and negative financial covenants. If we are unable to comply with these requirements and covenants, we may be restricted in our ability to pay dividends or engage in certain other business transactions, the lender may obtain control of our cash accounts, and we may experience an event of default. If a default occurs, the lenders under the Credit Agreement may elect to declare all of their respective outstanding debt, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. Under such circumstances, we may not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other corporate actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing.. Borrowing availability under the Credit Agreement is limited to the lesser of the facility total and the calculated borrowing base, which is based on stipulated loan percentages applied to our eligible trade accounts receivable and eligible inventories plus a defined amount related to certain machinery and equipment. Should the borrowing base decline, our ability to borrow to fund future operations and business transactions could be limited.  In addition, the Credit Agreement contains certain restrictions on our ability to undertake certain types of transactions.  Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in certain corporate actions. Through the Credit Agreement, we were required to enter into a hedging arrangement that fixed certain interest rates as defined in the Credit Agreement. To satisfy this requirement, an interest rate swap contract was entered into during the second quarter of Fiscal 2017. The results of the Swap Contract could create quarterly fluctuations in operating results. When we repriced our Credit Agreements during the second quarter of Fiscal 2018, the requirement to hedge a portion of the debt was removed.. In addition, the additional indebtedness could:. • Make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic, regulatory, and industry conditions;. • Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes and opportunities in the markets in which we compete;. • Place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to service our debt; and. • Restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or exploiting other business opportunities.. Our Stock Price is Subject to Volatility. Our stock price may fluctuate based on many factors.  Our acquisition of Grand Design, for example, provided important strategic positioning and earnings growth potential, but to partially finance the transaction we issued $124.1 million worth of common stock to the owners of Grand Design and registered these shares for resale after the transaction closed. Any future stock issuance by us or liquidation of stock holding by the former owners of Grand Design may cause dilution of earnings per share or put selling pressure on our share price. Changing credit agreements and leverage ratios may also impact stock price. In general, analysts' expectations and our ability to meet those expectations quarterly may cause stock price fluctuations. If we fail to meet expectations related to future growth, profitability, debt repayment, dividends, share issuance or repurchase, or other market expectations, our stock price may decline significantly.. Facility Expansion. We are expanding our production capabilities within our Towable segment. The expansion and renovation entails risks that could cause disruption in the operations of our business and unanticipated cost increases. Should we experience production variances, quality, or safety issues as we ramp up these operations, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.. Adverse Effects of Union Activities. Although none of our employees are currently represented by a labor union, unionization could result in higher employee costs and increased risk of work stoppages. We are, directly or indirectly, dependent upon companies with unionized work forces, such as parts suppliers and trucking and freight companies, and work stoppages or strikes organized by such unions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, or operating results. If a work stoppage occurs, it could delay the manufacture and sale of our products and have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, or financial condition.. General Economic Conditions and Certain Other External Factors. Companies within the RV and marine industries are subject to volatility in operating results due primarily to general economic conditions because the purchase of an RV or marine products is often viewed as a consumer discretionary purchase. Demand for discretionary goods in general can fluctuate with recessionary conditions, slow or negative economic growth rates, negative. 9. Table of Contents. consumer confidence, reduced consumer spending levels resulting from tax increases or other factors, prolonged high unemployment rates, higher commodity and component costs, fuel prices, inflationary or deflationary pressures, reduced credit availability or unfavorable credit terms for dealers and end-user customers, higher short-term interest rates, and general economic and political conditions and expectations. Specific factors affecting the RV and marine industries include:. • Overall consumer confidence and the level of discretionary consumer spending;. • Employment trends;. • The adverse impact of global tensions on consumer spending and travel-related activities; and. • The adverse impact on margins due to increases in raw material costs, which we are unable to pass on to customers without negatively affecting sales.. Goodwill and Trade Name Impairment. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, such as our trade names, are recorded at fair value at the time of acquisition and are not amortized but are reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. Our determination of whether goodwill impairment has occurred is based on a comparison of each of our reporting units' fair value with its carrying value. Significant and unanticipated changes in circumstances, such as significant and long-term adverse changes in business climate, unanticipated competition, and/or changes in technology or markets, could require a provision for impairment in a future period that could negatively impact our results of operations.. Dependence on Credit Availability and Interest Rates to Dealers and Retail Purchasers. Our business is affected by the availability and terms of the financing to dealers. Generally, RV and marine dealers finance their purchases of inventory with financing provided by lending institutions. One financial flooring institution held 54.8% of our total financed dealer inventory dollars that were outstanding at August 25, 2018. In the event that this lending institution limits or discontinues dealer financing, we could experience a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our business is also affected by the availability and terms of financing to retail purchasers. Retail buyers purchasing one of our products may elect to finance their purchase through the dealership or a financial institution of their choice. Substantial increases in interest rates or decreases in the general availability of credit for our dealers or for the retail purchaser may have an adverse impact upon our business and results of operations.. Cyclicality and Seasonality. The RV and marine industries have been characterized by cycles of growth and contraction in consumer demand, reflecting prevailing economic and demographic conditions, which affect disposable income for leisure-time activities. Consequently, the results for any prior period may not be indicative of results for any future period.. Seasonal factors, over which we have no control, also have an effect on the demand for our products. Demand in the RV and marine industries generally declines over the winter season, while sales are generally highest during the spring and summer months. Also, unusually severe weather conditions in some markets may impact demand.. Managing Growth Opportunities. One of our growth strategies is to drive growth through targeted acquisitions and alliances, stronger customer relations, and new joint ventures and partnerships that contribute profitable growth while supplementing our existing brands and product portfolio. Our ability to grow through acquisitions will depend, in part, on the availability of suitable candidates at acceptable prices, terms, and conditions, our ability to compete effectively for acquisition candidates, and the availability of capital and personnel to complete such acquisitions and run the acquired business effectively. Any acquisition, alliance, joint venture, or partnership could impair our business, financial condition, reputation, and operating results. The benefits of an acquisition or new alliance, joint venture, or partnership may take more time than expected to develop or integrate into our operations, and we cannot guarantee that previous or future acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, or partnerships will, in fact, produce any benefits. Such acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, and partnerships may involve a number of risks, including:. • Diversion of management's attention;. • Disruption to our existing operations and plans;. • Inability to effectively manage our expanded operations;. • Difficulties or delays in integrating and assimilating information and financial systems, operations, and products of an acquired business or other business venture or in realizing projected efficiencies, growth prospects, cost savings, and synergies;. • Inability to successfully integrate or develop a distribution channel for acquired product lines;. • Potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, or dealers of the acquired businesses or adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers, customers, distributors, and dealers;. • Adverse impact on overall profitability, if our expanded operations do not achieve the financial results projected in our valuation model;. 10. Table of Contents. • Inaccurate assessment of additional post-acquisition or business venture investments, undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities or problems, unanticipated costs associated with an acquisition or other business venture, and an inability to recover or manage such liabilities and costs; and. • Incorrect estimates made in the accounting for acquisitions, occurrence of non-recurring charges, and write-off of significant amounts of goodwill or other assets that could adversely affect our operating results.. Demand Forecasting and Inventory Management. Our ability to manage our inventory levels to meet our customer's demand for our products is important for our business. For example, certain dealers are focused on the rental market which spikes over the summer vacation period while other dealers are focused on direct sales to the consumer at various price points. Our production levels and inventory management are based on demand estimates six to twelve months forward taking into account supply lead times, production capacity, timing of shipments, and dealer inventory levels. If we overestimate or underestimate demand for any of our products during a given season, we may not maintain appropriate inventory levels, which could negatively impact our net sales or working capital, hinder our ability to meet customer demand, or cause us to incur excess and obsolete inventory charges.. Distribution Channel Management. We sell many of our products through distribution channels and are subject to risks relating to their inventory management decisions and operational and sourcing practices. Our distribution channel customers carry inventories of our products as part of their ongoing operations and adjust those inventories based on their assessments of future needs. Such adjustments may impact our inventory management and working capital goals as well as operating results. If the inventory levels of our distribution channel customers are higher than they desire, they may postpone product purchases from us, which could cause our sales to be lower than the end-user demand for our products and negatively impact our inventory management and working capital goals as well as our operating results.. Responsiveness to Market Changes. One of our growth strategies is to develop innovative, customer-valued products to generate revenue growth. We may not be able to compete as effectively with our competitors, and ultimately satisfy the needs and preferences of our customers, unless we can continue to enhance existing products and develop new innovative products for the markets in which we compete. Product development requires significant financial, technological, and other resources. Product improvements and new product introductions also require significant research, planning, design, development, engineering, and testing at the technological, product, and manufacturing process levels, and we may not be able to timely develop and introduce product improvements or new products. Our competitors' new products may beat our products to market, be higher quality or more reliable, be more effective with more features and/or less expensive than our products, obtain better market acceptance, or render our products obsolete. Any new products that we develop may not receive market acceptance or otherwise generate any meaningful net sales or profits for us relative to our expectations based on, among other things, existing and anticipated investments in manufacturing capacity and commitments to fund advertising, marketing, promotional programs, and research and development.. Potential Loss of a Large Dealer Organization. One of our dealer organizations accounted for 9.8% of our net revenue for Fiscal 2018. A second dealer organization, accounted for 9.0% of our net revenue for Fiscal 2018. The loss of either or both of these dealer organizations could have a significant adverse effect on our business. In addition, deterioration in the liquidity or creditworthiness of either or both of these dealers could negatively impact our sales and could trigger repurchase obligations under our repurchase agreements.. Potential Repurchase Liabilities. In accordance with customary practice in our industries, upon request we enter into formal repurchase agreements with lending institutions financing a dealer's purchase of our products. In these repurchase agreements we agree, in the event of a default by an independent dealer in its obligation to a lender and repossession of the unit(s) by the lending institution, to repurchase units at declining prices over the term of the agreements, which can last up to 24 months. The difference between the gross repurchase price and the price at which the repurchased product can then be resold, which is typically at a discount to the gross repurchase price, represents a potential expense to us. In certain instances, we also repurchase inventory from our dealers due to state law or regulatory requirements that govern voluntary or involuntary terminations. If we are obligated to repurchase a substantially larger number of units in the future than we estimate, this would increase our costs and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. Dependence on Suppliers. Most of our RV and marine components are readily available from numerous sources. However, a few of our components are produced by a small group of suppliers. In the case of motorhome chassis, Ford Motor Company, Mercedes-Benz (USA and Canada), and Freightliner Custom Chassis Corporation are our major suppliers. Our relationship with our chassis suppliers is similar to our other supplier relationships in that no specific contractual commitments are engaged in by either party. This means. 11. Table of Contents. that we do not have minimum purchase requirements, and our chassis suppliers do not have minimum supply requirements. Our chassis suppliers also supply to our competitors. Historically, chassis suppliers resort to an industry-wide allocation system during periods when supply is restricted. These allocations have been based on the volume of chassis previously purchased, which could mean our larger competitors could receive more chassis in a time of scarcity. Sales of motorhomes rely on chassis supply and are affected by shortages from time to time. Decisions by our suppliers to decrease production, production delays, or work stoppages by the employees of such suppliers, or price increases could have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce motorhomes and ultimately, on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. In Fiscal 2018, none of our manufacturers individually accounted for more than 10% of our raw material purchases.. Raw Material Costs. We purchase raw materials such as steel, aluminum, and other commodities, and components, such as chassis, refrigerators, and televisions, for use in our products. In addition, we are a purchaser of components and parts containing various commodities, including steel, aluminum, copper, lead, rubber, and others that are integrated into our end products. To the extent that commodity prices increase and we do not have firm pricing from our suppliers, or our suppliers are not able to honor such prices, increases in the cost of such raw materials and components and parts may adversely affect our profit margins if we are unable to pass along to our customers these cost increases in the form of price increases or otherwise reduce our cost of goods sold. In addition, increases in other costs of doing business may also adversely affect our profit margins and businesses. For example, an increase in fuel costs may result in an increase in our transportation costs, which also could adversely affect our operating results and businesses. Historically, we have mitigated cost increases, in part, by collaborating with suppliers, reviewing alternative sourcing options, substituting materials, engaging in internal cost reduction efforts, and increasing prices on some of our products, all as appropriate. However, we may not be able to fully offset such increased costs in the future. Further, if our price increases are not accepted by our customers and the market, our net sales, profit margins, earnings, and market share could be adversely affected.. Warranty Claims. We receive warranty claims from our dealers in the ordinary course of our business. Although we maintain reserves for such claims, which to date have been adequate, there can be no assurance that warranty expense levels will remain at current levels or that such reserves will continue to be adequate. A significant increase in warranty claims exceeding our current warranty expense levels could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. In addition to the costs associated with the contractual warranty coverage provided on our products, we also occasionally incur costs as a result of additional service actions not covered by our warranties, including product recalls and customer satisfaction actions. Although we estimate and reserve for the cost of these service actions, there can be no assurance that expense levels will remain at current levels or such reserves will continue to be adequate.. Protection of our Brand. We believe that one of the strengths of our business is our brands, which are widely known around the world. We vigorously defend our brands and our other intellectual property rights against third parties on a global basis. We have, from time to time, had to bring claims against third parties to protect or prevent unauthorized use of our brand. If we are unable to protect and defend our brands or other intellectual property, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. Product Liability. We are subject, in the ordinary course of business, to litigation including a variety of warranty, \"Lemon Law\" and product liability claims typical in the RV and marine industries. Although we have an insurance policy with a $50.0 million limit covering product liability, we are self-insured for the first $2.5 million of product liability claims on a per occurrence basis, with a $6.0 million aggregate per policy year. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover all future claims against us, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Any increase in the frequency and size of these claims, as compared to our experience in prior years, may cause the premium that we are required to pay for insurance to rise significantly. Product liability claims may also cause us to pay punitive damages, not all of which are covered by our insurance. In addition, if product liability claims rise to a level of frequency or size that are significantly higher than similar claims made against our competitors, our reputation and business may be harmed.. Information Systems and Web Applications. We rely on our information systems and web applications to support our business operations, including but not limited to procurement, supply chain, manufacturing, distribution, warranty administration, invoicing, and collection of payments. We use information systems to report and audit our operational results. Additionally, we rely upon information systems in our sales, marketing, human resources, and communication efforts. Due to our reliance on our information systems, our business processes may be negatively impacted in the event of substantial disruption of service. Further, misuse, leakage, or falsification of information could result in a violation of privacy laws and damage our reputation which could, in turn, have a negative impact on our results.. 12. Table of Contents. In addition to our general reliance on information systems, we began implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system at the end of fiscal year 2015. Though we perform planning and testing to reduce risks associated with such a complex, enterprise-wide systems change, failure to meet requirements of the business could disrupt our business and harm our reputation, which may result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess or obsolete inventory, and product shortages, causing our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results to suffer.. Data Security. We have security systems in place with the intent of maintaining the physical security of our facilities and protecting our customers', clients', and suppliers' confidential information and information related to identifiable individuals against unauthorized access through our information systems or by other electronic transmission or through the misdirection, theft, or loss of physical media. These include, for example, the appropriate encryption of information. Despite such efforts, we are subject to breach of security systems which may result in unauthorized access to our facilities or the information we are trying to protect. Because the technologies used to obtain unauthorized access are constantly changing and becoming increasingly more sophisticated and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement sufficient preventative measures. If unauthorized parties gain physical access to one of our facilities or electronic access to our information systems or such information is misdirected, lost, or stolen during transmission or transport, any theft or misuse of such information could result in, among other things, unfavorable publicity, governmental inquiry and oversight, difficulty in marketing our services, allegations by our customers and clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations, litigation by affected parties, and possible financial obligations for damages related to the theft or misuse of such information, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Government Regulation. We are subject to numerous federal, state, and local regulations and the following summarizes some, but not all, of the laws and regulations that apply to us.. Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards govern the design, manufacture and sale of our RV products, which standards are promulgated by the NHTSA.  NHTSA requires manufacturers to recall and repair vehicles which are non-compliant with a Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard or contain safety defects. In addition, the U.S. Coast Guard maintains certification standards for the manufacture of our marine products, and the safety of recreational boats in the U.S. is subject to federal regulation under the Boat Safety Act of 1971, which requires boat manufacturers to recall products for replacement of parts or components that have demonstrated defects affecting safety. Any major recalls of our products, voluntary or involuntary, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.  While we believe we are substantially in compliance with the foregoing laws and regulations as they currently exist, amendments to any of these regulations or the implementation of new regulations could significantly increase the cost of testing, manufacturing, purchasing, operating, or selling our products and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.  In addition, our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in federal fines being imposed on us, potential civil and criminal liability, suspension of sales or production, or cessation of operations.. We are also subject to federal and numerous state consumer protection and unfair trade practice laws and regulations relating to the sale, transportation, and marketing of motor vehicles, including so-called \"Lemon Laws.\" Federal and state laws and regulations also impose upon vehicle operators various restrictions on the weight, length, and width of motor vehicles, including motorhomes that may be operated in certain jurisdictions or on certain roadways. Certain jurisdictions also prohibit the sale of vehicles exceeding length restrictions.. Failure to comply with the New York Stock Exchange and SEC laws or regulations could also have an adverse impact on our business. Additionally, amendments to these regulations and the implementation of new regulations could increase the cost of manufacturing, purchasing, operating, or selling our products and therefore could have an adverse impact on our business.. Finally, federal and state authorities also have various environmental control standards relating to air, water, noise pollution, and hazardous waste generation and disposal that affect us and our operations. Failure by us to comply with present or future laws and regulations could result in fines being imposed on us, potential civil and criminal liability, suspension of production or operations, alterations to the manufacturing process, or costly cleanup or capital expenditures, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Climate Change and Related Regulation. There is growing concern from members of the scientific community and the general public that an increase in global average temperatures due to emissions of greenhouse gases (\"GHG\") and other human activities have or will cause significant changes in weather patterns and increase the frequency and severity of natural disasters. We are currently subject to rules limiting emissions and other climate related rules and regulations in certain jurisdictions where we operate. In addition, we may become subject to additional legislation and regulation regarding climate change, and compliance with any new rules could be difficult and costly. Concerned parties, such as legislators, regulators, and non-governmental organizations, are considering ways to reduce GHG emissions. Foreign, federal, state, and local regulatory and legislative bodies have proposed various legislative and regulatory. 13. Table of Contents. measures relating to climate change, regulating GHG emissions, and energy policies. If such legislation is enacted, we could incur increased energy, environmental, and other costs and capital expenditures to comply with the limitations. Climate change regulation combined with public sentiment could result in reduced demand for our products, higher fuel prices, or carbon taxes, all of which could materially adversely affect our business. Due to uncertainty in the regulatory and legislative processes, as well as the scope of such requirements and initiatives, we cannot currently determine the effect such legislation and regulation may have on our products and operations.. Anti-takeover Effect. Provisions of our articles of incorporation, by-laws, the Iowa Business Corporation Act, and provisions in our credit agreements and certain of our compensation programs that we may enter into from time to time could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial by our shareholders.The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock."
