[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to the Company's Business. Changes in general economic conditions and other factors affecting consumer spending could adversely affect the Company's sales, costs, operating results or financial position.. The Company's operations depend on factors affecting consumer disposable income and spending patterns. These factors include general economic conditions, employment rates, business conditions, interest rates and tax policy in each of the markets and regions in which the Company or its third-party distributors and licensees operates. Customers may defer or cancel purchases of the Company's products due to uncertainty about global economic conditions. Disposable income and consumer spending may decline due to recessionary economic cycles, high interest rates on consumer or business borrowings, restricted credit availability,. 10. Table of Contents. inflation, high levels of unemployment or consumer debt, high tax rates, declines in consumer confidence or other factors. A decline in disposable income and consumer spending could adversely affect demand for the Company's products.. The Company operates in competitive industries and markets.. The Company competes with a large number of wholesalers, and retailers of footwear and apparel, and consumer-direct footwear and apparel companies. Many of the Company's competitors have greater resources and larger customer and consumer bases, are able to sell their products at lower prices, or have greater financial, technical or marketing resources than the Company, particularly its competitors in the apparel and consumer-direct businesses. The Company's competitors may own more recognized brands; implement more effective marketing campaigns; adopt more aggressive pricing policies; make more attractive offers to potential employees, distribution partners and manufacturers; or respond more quickly to changes in consumer preferences. The Company's continued ability to sell its products at competitive prices and to meet shifts in consumer preferences will affect its future sales. If the Company is unable to respond effectively to competitive pressures, its results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected.. The Company's operating results could be adversely affected if it is unable to maintain its brands' positive images with consumers or anticipate, understand and respond to changing footwear and apparel trends and consumer preferences.. Consumer preferences and, as a result, the popularity of particular designs and categories of footwear and apparel, generally change over time. The Company's success depends in part on its ability to maintain its brands' positive images, and the ability to anticipate, understand and respond to changing footwear and apparel trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. The Company's efforts to maintain and improve its competitive position by monitoring and timely and appropriately responding to changes in consumer preferences, increasing brand awareness, gaining sourcing efficiencies, and enhancing the style, comfort and perceived value of its products may not be successful. If the Company is unable to maintain or enhance the images of its brands or if it is unable to timely and appropriately respond to changing consumer preferences and evolving footwear and apparel trends, consumers may consider its brands' images to be outdated, associate its brands with styles that are no longer popular and decrease demand for its products. Such failures could result in reduced sales, excess inventory, trade name impairments, lower gross margin and adverse impacts on the Company's operating results.. The Company's operating results depend on effectively managing inventory levels.. The Company's ability to effectively manage its inventories and accurately forecast demand are important factors in its operations. Inventory shortages can impede the Company's ability to meet demand, adversely affect the timing of shipments to customers and, consequently, adversely affect business relationships with retail customers, diminish brand loyalty and decrease sales.. Conversely, excess inventory can result in lower gross margins if the Company lowers prices in order to liquidate it. In addition, inventory may become obsolete as a result of changes in consumer preferences over time. The Company's business, results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected if it is unable to effectively manage its inventory.. Increases or changes in duties, quotas, tariffs and other trade restrictions could adversely impact the Company's sales and profitability.. All of the Company's products manufactured overseas and imported into the U.S., Canada, the European Union and other countries are subject to customs duties collected by customs authorities. The customs information submitted by the Company is routinely subject to review by customs authorities and any such review might result in the assessment of additional duties or penalties. Additional U.S. or foreign customs duties, quotas, tariffs, anti-dumping duties, safeguard measures, cargo restrictions, the loss of most favored nation trading status or other trade restrictions may be imposed on the importation of the Company's products in the future. The imposition of such costs or restrictions in countries where the Company operates, as well as in countries where its third-party distributors and licensees operate, could result in increases in the cost of the Company's products generally and adversely affect its sales and profitability.. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely impact the Company's business.. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations affect the Company's revenue and profitability. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may impact the Company's financial results positively or negatively in any given period, which may make it difficult to compare the Company's operating results from different periods. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may also adversely impact third parties that manufacture the Company's products by increasing their costs of production and raw materials and making such costs more difficult to finance, thereby raising prices for the Company, its distributors and its licensees. The Company's hedging strategy may not successfully mitigate the Company's foreign currency exchange rate risk. For a more detailed discussion of the risks related to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, see Item 7A: \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.\". 11. Table of Contents. In addition, our foreign subsidiaries purchase products in U.S. dollars and the cost of those products will vary depending on the applicable foreign currency exchange rate, which will impact the price charged to customers. The Company's foreign distributors also purchase products in U.S. dollars and sell in local currencies, which impacts the price to foreign consumers and in turn, impacts the amount of royalties paid to the Company in U.S. dollars. As the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to foreign currencies, the Company's revenues and profits are reduced when converted into U.S. dollars and the Company's margins may be negatively impacted by the increase in product costs. Although the Company typically has sought to mitigate the negative impacts of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations through price increases and further actions to reduce costs, the Company may not be able to fully offset the impact, if at all. The Company's success depends, in part, on its ability to manage these various foreign currency impacts as changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.. Significant capacity constraints, production disruptions, quality issues, price increases and other risks associated with foreign sourcing could increase the Company's operating costs and adversely impact the Company's business and reputation.. The Company currently sources a substantial majority of its products from third-party manufacturers in foreign countries, predominantly in the Asia Pacific region. As is common in the footwear and apparel industry, the Company does not have long-term contracts with its third-party manufacturers. There can be no assurance that the Company will not experience difficulties with such manufacturers, including reductions in the availability of production capacity, failures to meet production deadlines, failure to make products that meet applicable quality standards, or increases in manufacturing costs. The Company's future results depend partly on its ability to maintain its relationships with third-party manufacturers.. Foreign manufacturing is subject to a number of risks, including work stoppages, transportation delays and interruptions, political instability, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, changing economic conditions, expropriation, nationalization, the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers and changes in governmental policies. Various factors could significantly interfere with the Company's ability to source its products, including adverse developments in trade or political relations with China or other countries where it sources its products, or a shift in these countries' manufacturing capacities away from footwear and apparel to other industries. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial position and, in particular, on the Company's ability to meet customer demands and produce its products in a cost-effective manner.. Increases in the cost of raw materials, labor and services could adversely affect the Company's results of operations.. The Company's ability to competitively price its products and, as a result, its operating results are dependent on the prices of commodities, such as cotton, leather, rubber, petroleum, cattle, pigskin hides, and other raw materials, used to make and transport its products, as well as the prices of equipment, labor, insurance and health care. The cost of commodities, equipment, services and materials is subject to change based on availability and general economic and market conditions that are difficult to predict. Various conditions, such as diseases affecting the availability of leather, affect the cost of the footwear marketed by the Company. Increases in costs for commodities, equipment, services and materials used in production could have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations and financial position.. The Company purchases pigskin hides for its leathers operations from a single domestic source pursuant to short-term contracts. If this source fails to continue to supply the Company with raw pigskin or supplies the Company with raw pigskin on less favorable terms, the Company's cost of raw materials for its leathers operations could increase and, as a result, have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations and financial position.. Labor disruptions could adversely affect the Company's business.. The Company's business depends on its ability to source and distribute products in a timely and cost-effective manner. Labor disputes at or that affect independent factories where the Company's goods are produced, shipping ports, such as the 2015 labor dispute at west coast U.S. ports, tanneries, transportation carriers, retail stores or distribution centers create significant risks for the Company's business, particularly if these disputes result in work slowdowns, stoppages, lockouts, strikes or other disruptions. Any such disruption may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business by potentially resulting in inventory shortages, delayed or canceled orders by customers and unanticipated inventory accumulation, and may negatively impact the Company's results of operations and financial position.. A significant reduction in wholesale customer purchases of the Company's products, wholesale customers seeking more favorable terms or failure of wholesale customers to pay for the Company's products in a timely manner could adversely affect the Company's business.. The Company's financial success is directly dependent on its wholesale customers continuing to purchase its products. The Company does not typically have long-term contracts with its wholesale customers. Sales to the Company's wholesale customers. 12. Table of Contents. are generally on an order-to-order basis and are subject to rights of cancellation and rescheduling by the wholesale customers. Failure to fill wholesale customers' orders in a timely manner could harm the Company's relationships with its wholesale customers. Furthermore, if any of the Company's major wholesale customers experiences a significant downturn in its business, or fails to remain committed to the Company's products or brands, these wholesale customers may reduce or discontinue purchases from the Company, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial position.. The Company sells its products to wholesale customers and extends credit based on an evaluation of each wholesale customer's financial condition. The financial difficulties of a wholesale customer could cause the Company to stop doing business with that wholesale customer or reduce its business with that wholesale customer. The Company's inability to collect from its wholesale customers or a cessation or reduction of sales to certain wholesale customers because of credit concerns could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial position.. Retail consolidation could lead to fewer wholesale customers, wholesale customers seeking more favorable price, payment or other terms from the Company and a decrease in the number of stores that carry the Company's  products. In addition, changes in the channels of distribution, such as the continued growth of eCommerce and related competitive pressures, and the sale of private label products by major retailers, could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial position.. The Company's consumer-direct operations have required, and will continue to require, a substantial investment and commitment of resources and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties.. The Company's consumer-direct operations, including its brick and mortar locations as well as its eCommerce and mobile channels, have required substantial fixed investment in equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. The Company has also made substantial operating lease commitments for retail space. Due to the high fixed-cost structure associated with the Company's brick and mortar consumer-direct operations, a decline in sales or the closure or poor performance of individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements, and employee-related costs. The success of our consumer-direct operations also depends on the Company's ability to identify and adapt to changes in consumer spending patterns and retail shopping preferences, including the shift from brick and mortar to eCommerce and mobile channels, reductions in mall traffic, and the Company's ability to effectively develop its  eCommerce and mobile channels. The Company's failure to successfully respond to these factors could adversely affect the Company's consumer-direct business, as well as damage its reputation and brands, and could materially affect the Company's results of operations and financial position.. Expanding the Company's brands into new markets and product categories and re-aligning its consumer-direct operations may be difficult and costly, and unsuccessful efforts to do so may adversely affect the Company's brands and business.. As part of the Company's growth strategy, it seeks to enhance the positioning of its brands, to extend its brands into complementary product categories and to expand geographically. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully implement any or all of these growth strategies, and unsuccessful efforts to do so could have an adverse effect on its results of operations and financial position.. Part of the future growth and profitability of the Company's consumer-direct operations is significantly dependent on the Company's ability to close underperforming stores and successfully develop its eCommerce and mobile platforms. The Company cannot be sure whether its eCommerce and mobile platforms will be successful, whether it will be able to terminate existing store leases in a cost-effective manner, or whether it will recapture lost sales from closed retail store locations through its wholesale, eCommerce or mobile businesses. The closure of stores and the failure to recapture sales from closed retail store locations could adversely impact the Company's operations and financial position.. Unseasonable or extreme weather conditions could adversely affect the Company's results of operations.. The Company markets and sells footwear and apparel suited for specific seasons, such as sandals and flats for the summer season and boots for the winter season. If the weather conditions for a particular season vary significantly from those typical for that season, such as an unusually cold and rainy summer or an unusually warm and dry winter, consumer demand for seasonally appropriate products could be adversely affected. Lower demand for seasonally appropriate products may result in excess inventory, forcing the Company to sell these products at significantly discounted prices, which would adversely affect the Company's results of operations. Conversely, if weather conditions permit the Company to sell seasonal products early in the season, this may reduce inventory levels needed to meet customers' needs later in that same season. Consequently, the Company's results of operations are highly dependent on future weather conditions and its ability to react to changes in weather conditions.. Extreme weather conditions can also adversely impact the Company's business, results of operations and financial position. If extreme weather events forced closures of, or disrupted operations at, distribution centers maintained by the Company or third parties, the Company could incur higher costs and experience longer lead times to distribute its products on a timely basis to the Company's retail stores, wholesale customers or eCommerce consumers. In addition, consumer traffic may be reduced as a result. 13. Table of Contents. of extreme weather conditions and a decrease in shopping traffic could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial position.. Changes in general economic conditions and/or the credit markets affecting our distributors, suppliers and retailers could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial position.. Changes in general economic conditions and/or the credit markets could adversely impact the Company's future results of operations and financial position. Negative trends in global economic conditions may adversely impact our third-party distributors', suppliers' and retailers' ability to meet their obligations to provide the Company with the materials and services it needs at the prices, terms or levels as such third-parties have historically, which could adversely impact the Company's ability to meet our consumers' demands and, in turn, our results of operations and financial position.. In addition, if the Company's third-party distributors, suppliers and retailers are not able to obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all, they may delay or cancel orders for the Company's products or fail to meet their obligations to the Company in a timely manner, either of which could adversely impact the Company's sales, cash flow and operating results.. An increase in the Company's effective tax rate or negative determinations by domestic or foreign tax authorities could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial position.. A significant amount of the Company's earnings are generated by its Canadian, European and Asia Pacific subsidiaries and, to a lesser extent, in jurisdictions that are not subject to income tax. As a result, the Company's income tax expense has historically differed from the tax computed at the U.S. statutory income tax rate due to discrete items and because the Company did not provide for U.S. taxes on earnings it considered to be permanently reinvested in foreign operations. The Company's future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, changes in the tax rates in jurisdictions in which the Company generates income; changes in, or in the interpretation of, tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Company does business; or decreases in the amount of earnings in countries with low statutory tax rates. An increase in the Company's effective tax rate could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial position.. In addition, the Company's income tax returns are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes and establishes reserves for potential adjustments that may result from these examinations. There can be no assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial position.. Failure of the Company's third-party licensees and distributors to meet sales goals or to make timely payments on amounts owed to the Company could adversely affect the Company's financial performance.. In many international markets, independent third-party licensees or distributors sell the Company's products. Failure by the Company's licensees or distributors to meet planned annual sales goals or to make timely payments on amounts owed to the Company could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial position. If a change in licensee or distributor becomes necessary, it may be difficult and costly to locate an acceptable substitute distributor or licensee and the Company may experience increased costs, as well as substantial disruption and a resulting loss of sales and brand equity in the market where such licensee or distributor operates.. The Company's reputation and competitive position are dependent on its third-party manufacturers, distributors, licensees and others complying with applicable laws and ethical standards.. The Company cannot ensure that its independent contract manufacturers, third-party distributors, third-party licensees and others with which it does business comply with all applicable laws and ethical standards relating to working conditions and other matters. If a party with which the Company does business is found to have violated applicable laws or ethical standards, the Company could receive negative publicity that could damage its reputation, negatively affect the value of its brands and subject the Company to legal risks.. In addition, the Company relies on its third-party licensees to help preserve the value of the Company's brands. The Company's attempts to protect its brands through approval rights over design, production processes, quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of its licensed products may not be successful as the Company cannot completely control the use by its licensees of its licensed brands. The misuse of a brand by a licensee could adversely affect the value of such brand.. Global political and economic uncertainty could adversely impact the Company's business.. The Company's products are marketed in approximately 200 countries and territories, and the Company sources a substantial majority of its products from foreign countries. Concerns regarding acts of terrorism or regional and international conflicts have created significant global economic and political uncertainties that may have material and adverse effects on consumer demand, acceptance of U.S. brands in international markets, foreign sourcing of products, shipping and transportation, product imports and. 14. Table of Contents. exports, and the sale of products in foreign markets, any of which could adversely affect the Company's ability to source, manufacture, distribute and sell its products.. In addition, an economic downturn, whether actual or perceived, a further decrease in economic growth rates or an otherwise uncertain economic outlook in China or any other market in which the Company operates could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, worldwide, in China or any other market in which the Company operates, or in its industry.. The Company is also subject to risks related to doing business in developing countries and economically volatile areas. These risks include social, political and economic instability; nationalization by local governmental authorities of the Company's, its distributors', or its licensees' assets and operations; slower payment of invoices; and restrictions on the Company's ability to repatriate foreign currency or receive payment of amounts owed by third-party distributors and licensees. In addition, commercial laws in these areas may not be well developed or consistently administered, and new unfavorable laws may be retroactively applied. Any of these risks could have an adverse impact on the Company's prospects and results of operations in these areas.. Global capital markets could enter a period of severe disruption and instability, which could have a material adverse effect on debt and equity markets in the United States, which in turn could have a materially negative impact on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The U.S. and global capital markets have experienced periods of disruption characterized by the freezing of available credit, a lack of liquidity in the debt capital markets, significant losses in the principal value of investments, the re-pricing of credit risk in the broadly syndicated credit market, the failure of major financial institutions and general volatility in the financial markets. During these periods of disruption, general economic conditions deteriorated with material and adverse consequences for the broader financial and credit markets, and the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole, and financial services firms in particular, was reduced significantly. These conditions may recur for a prolonged period of time or materially worsen in the future.. The Company may in the future have difficulty accessing capital, and a severe disruption in the global financial markets, deterioration in credit and financing conditions or uncertainty regarding U.S. government spending and deficit levels, European sovereign debt, Chinese economic slowdown or other global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If the Company is unsuccessful in establishing and protecting its intellectual property, the value of its brands could be adversely affected.. The Company's ability to remain competitive is dependent upon its continued ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights in the U.S. and internationally for all of the Company's lines of business. The Company relies on a combination of trade secret, patent, trademark, copyright and other laws, license agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect its intellectual property rights; however, some countries' laws do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent U.S. laws do.. The Company's business could be significantly harmed if it is not able to protect its intellectual property or if a court found it to be infringing on other persons' intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property lawsuits or threatened lawsuits in which the Company is involved, either as a plaintiff or as a defendant, could cost the Company a significant amount of time and money and distract management's attention from operating the Company's business. If the Company does not prevail on any intellectual property claims, then the Company may have to change its manufacturing processes, products or trade names, any of which could reduce its profitability.. In addition, some of the Company's branded footwear operations are operated pursuant to licensing agreements with third-party trademark owners. These agreements are subject to early termination for breach. These agreements also expire by their terms and as the agreements expire, the Company may be forced to stop selling the related products. Expiration or early termination by the licensor of any of these license agreements could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial position.. The Company's inability to attract and retain executive managers and other key employees, or the loss of one or more executive managers or other key employees, could adversely affect the Company's business.. The Company depends on its executive management and other key employees. In the footwear, apparel and consumer-direct markets, competition for key executive talent is intense and the Company's failure to identify, attract or retain executive managers or other key employees could adversely affect its business. The Company must offer and maintain competitive compensation packages to effectively recruit and retain such individuals. Further, the loss of one or more executive managers or other key. 15. Table of Contents. employees, or the Company's failure to successfully implement succession planning, could adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations and financial position.. Changes in employment laws and regulations and other related changes may lead to higher employment and pension costs for the Company.. Changes in employment laws and regulations and other factors could increase the Company's overall employment costs. The Company's employment costs include costs relating to health care and retirement benefits, including U.S.-based defined benefit pension plans. The annual cost of benefits can vary significantly depending on a number of factors, including changes in the assumed or actual rate of return on pension plan assets, a change in the discount rate or mortality assumptions used to determine the annual service cost related to the defined benefit plans, a change in the method or timing of meeting pension funding obligations and the rate of health care cost inflation. Increases in the Company's overall employment and pension costs could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial position.. The Company's marketing programs, eCommerce initiatives and use of consumer information are governed by an evolving set of laws, industry standards and enforcement trends and unfavorable changes in those laws, standards or trends, or the Company's failure to comply with existing or future laws, could substantially harm the Company's business and results of operations.. The Company collects, maintains and uses data provided to it through its online activities and other consumer interactions in its business. The Company's current and future marketing programs depend on its ability to collect, maintain and use this information, and its ability to do so is subject to certain contractual restrictions in third party contracts as well as evolving international, federal and state laws, industry standards and enforcement trends. The Company strives to comply with all applicable laws and other legal obligations relating to privacy, data protection and consumer protection, including those relating to the use of data for marketing purposes. It is possible, however, that these requirements may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another, may conflict with other rules or may conflict with the Company's practices. If so, the Company may suffer damage to its reputation and be subject to proceedings or actions against it by governmental entities or others. Any such proceeding or action could hurt the Company's reputation, force it to spend significant amounts to defend its practices, distract its management, increase its costs of doing business, and result in monetary liability.. In addition, as data privacy and marketing laws change, the Company may incur additional costs to ensure it remains in compliance. If applicable data privacy and marketing laws become more restrictive at the federal or state level, the Company's compliance costs may increase, the Company's ability to effectively engage customers via personalized marketing may decrease, its opportunities for growth may be curtailed by its compliance capabilities or reputational harm and its potential liability for security breaches may increase.. Because the Company processes and transmits payment card information, the Company is subject to the Payment Card Industry (\"PCI\") Data Security Standard (the \"Standard\"), and card brand operating rules (\"Card Rules\"). The Standard is a comprehensive set of requirements for enhancing payment account data security that was developed by the PCI Security Standards Council to help facilitate the broad adoption of consistent data security measures. The Company is required by payment card network rules to comply with the Standard, and the Company's failure to do so may result in fines or restrictions on its ability to accept payment cards. Under certain circumstances specified in the payment card network rules, the Company may be required to submit to periodic audits, self-assessments or other assessments of its compliance with the Standard. Such activities may reveal that the Company has failed to comply with the Standard. If an audit, self-assessment or other test determines that the Company needs to take steps to remediate any deficiencies, such remediation efforts may distract the Company's management team and require it to undertake costly and time consuming remediation efforts. In addition, even if the Company complies with the Standard, there is no assurance that it will be protected from a security breach. Further, changes in technology and processing procedures may result in changes in the Card Rules. Such changes may require the Company to make significant investments in operating systems and technology that may impact business. Failure to keep up with changes in technology could result in loss of business. Failure to comply with the Standard or Card Rules could result in losing certification under the PCI standards and an inability to process payments.. Disruption of the Company's information technology systems could adversely affect the Company's business.. The Company's information technology systems are critical to the operations of its business. Any interruption, unauthorized access, impairment or loss of data integrity or malfunction of these systems could severely impact the Company's business, including delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency in operations. In addition, costs and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems, or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems, could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of the Company's operations. Disruption to the Company's information technology systems may be caused by natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, denial-of-service attacks, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or similar events or disruptions. System redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and the Company's disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Such failures or disruptions could prevent access to the Company's online services and preclude store transactions. System failures and disruptions. 16. Table of Contents. could also impede the manufacturing and shipping of products, transactions processing and financial reporting. Additionally, the Company may be materially adversely affected if it is unable to improve, upgrade, maintain, and expand its technology systems.. The Company's and its vendors' databases containing personal information and payment card data of the Company's customers, employees and other third parties, could be breached, which could subject the Company to adverse publicity, litigation, fines and expenses. If the Company is unable to comply with bank and payment card industry standards, its operations could be adversely affected.. The protection of the Company's customer, associate and Company data is critically important to the Company. The Company relies on its networks, databases, systems and processes, as well as those of third parties such as vendors, to protect its proprietary information and information about its customers, employees and vendors. The Company's customers and associates have a high expectation that the Company will adequately safeguard and protect their sensitive personal information. The Company has become increasingly centralized and dependent upon automated information technology processes. In addition, a portion of the Company's business operations is conducted electronically, increasing the risk of attack or interception that could cause loss or misuse of data, system failures or disruption of operations. If unauthorized parties gain access to these networks or databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify the Company's private and sensitive third-party or employee information. Improper activities by third parties, exploitation of encryption technology, new data-hacking tools and discoveries and other events or developments may result in a future compromise or breach of the Company's networks, payment card terminals or other payment systems. In particular, the techniques used by criminals to obtain unauthorized access to sensitive data change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target; accordingly, the Company may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. Any failure to maintain the security of the Company's customers' sensitive information, or data belonging to it or its suppliers, could put it at a competitive disadvantage, result in deterioration of its customers' confidence in it, and subject it to potential litigation, liability, fines and penalties, resulting in a possible material adverse impact on its financial condition and results of operations. While the Company maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses and would not remedy damage to its reputation. In addition, employees may intentionally or inadvertently cause data or security breaches that result in unauthorized release of personal or confidential information. In such circumstances, the Company could be held liable to its customers, other parties or employees, be subject to regulatory or other actions for breaching privacy laws or failing to adequately protect such information or respond to a breach. This could result in costly investigations and litigation, civil or criminal penalties, operational changes and negative publicity that could adversely affect the Company's reputation and its results of operations and financial position. In addition, if the Company is unable to comply with bank and PCI security standards, it may be subject to fines, restrictions and expulsion from card acceptance programs, which could adversely affect the Company's consumer-direct operations.. If the Company encounters problems affecting its logistics and distribution systems, its ability to deliver its products to the market could be adversely affected.. The Company relies on owned or independently operated distribution facilities to transport, warehouse and ship products to its customers. The Company's logistic and distribution systems include computer-controlled and automated equipment, which may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, power interruptions or other system failures. Substantially all of the Company's products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations. Therefore, its operations could be interrupted by earthquakes, floods, fires or other natural disasters near its distribution centers. The Company's business interruption insurance may not adequately protect the Company from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions affecting its distribution facilities, such as the long-term loss of customers or an erosion of brand image. In addition, the Company's distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of products to and from the Company's distribution facilities. If the Company encounters problems affecting its distribution system, its results of operations and its ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve operating efficiencies could be materially adversely affected.. The Company's business depends on effective marketing, advertising and promotional programs.. Consumer traffic and demand for our merchandise is influenced by the Company's advertising, marketing and promotional activities, the name recognition and reputation of its brands. Although the Company uses marketing, advertising and promotional programs to attract consumers through various media, including social media, database marketing and print, our competitors may spend more or use different approaches, which could provide them with a competitive advantage. The Company's promotional activity and other programs may not be effective, may be perceived negatively or could require increased expenditures, which could adversely impact the Company's business, results of operations and financial position.. 17. Table of Contents. The Company faces risks associated with its growth strategy and acquiring businesses.. The Company has expanded its products and markets in part through strategic acquisitions and it may continue to do so in the future, depending on its ability to identify and successfully pursue suitable acquisition candidates. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including risks inherent in entering new markets in which the Company may not have prior experience; potential loss of significant customers or key personnel of the acquired business; not obtaining the expected benefits; managing geographically-remote operations; and potential diversion of management's attention from other aspects of the Company's business operations. Acquisitions may also cause the Company to incur debt or result in dilutive issuances of its equity securities, write-offs of goodwill and substantial amortization expenses associated with other intangible assets. The Company may not be able to obtain financing for future acquisitions on favorable terms, making any such acquisitions more expensive. Any such financing may have terms that restrict the Company's operations. The Company cannot provide assurance that it will be able to successfully integrate the operations of any acquired businesses into its operations and achieve the expected benefits of any acquisitions. In addition, the Company may not consummate a potential acquisition for a variety of reasons, but it may nonetheless incur material costs in the preliminary stages of such an acquisition that it cannot recover. The failure to successfully integrate newly acquired businesses or achieve the expected benefits of strategic acquisitions in the future, or consummate a potential acquisition after incurring material costs, could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial position.. Maintenance and growth of the Company's business depends upon the availability of adequate capital.. The maintenance and growth of the Company's business depends on the availability of adequate capital, which in turn depends in large part on cash flow generated by the Company's business and the availability of equity and debt financing. The Company cannot provide assurance that its operations will generate positive cash flow or that it will be able to obtain equity or debt financing on acceptable terms, or at all. Further, the Company cannot provide assurance that it will be able to finance any expansion plans.. An impairment of goodwill or other intangibles could have an adverse material impact to the Company's results of operations.. The carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. The carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trade names and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date. Goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to the Company's cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by the Company at least annually for impairment. If the carrying amounts of one or more of these assets are not recoverable based upon discounted cash flow and market-approach analyses, the carrying amounts of such assets are impaired by the estimated difference between the carrying value and estimated fair value. An impairment charge could materially affect the Company's results of operations.. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully implement its restructuring plans.. In 2017, 2016 and 2014, the Company initiated specific restructuring and organization transformation plans. There can be no assurance that the Company will successfully realize some or all of the estimated profitability improvements or other benefits from these plans. There is also no assurance that the Company will be able to re-invest any future cost savings generated from the plans into other initiatives or that any such investment will improve the Company's operations.. Changes in government regulation may increase the Company's costs of compliance and failure to comply with government regulations or other standards may adversely affect its brands and business.. The Company's business is affected by changes in government and regulatory policies in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions. New requirements relating to product safety and testing and new environmental requirements, as well as changes in tax laws, duties, tariffs and quotas, could have a negative impact on the Company's ability to produce and market footwear at competitive prices. Failure to comply with such regulations, as well as comply with ethical, social, product, labor and environmental standards, could also jeopardize the Company's reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions, including boycotts. Any negative publicity about these types of concerns may reduce demand for the Company's products. Damage to the Company's reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could adversely affect the Company's results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild its reputation and brand value.. The Company's operations are subject to environmental and workplace safety laws and regulations, and costs or claims related to these requirements could adversely affect the Company's business.. The Company's operations are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air, soil and water, the management and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and wastes, employee exposure to hazards in the workplace, and the investigation and remediation of contamination resulting from releases of hazardous materials. Failure to comply with legal requirements could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. Various third parties could also bring actions against the Company alleging health-related or other harm arising from non-compliance. The. 18. Table of Contents. Company may incur investigation, remediation or other costs related to releases of hazardous materials or other environmental conditions at its currently or formerly owned or operated properties, regardless of whether such environmental conditions were created by the Company or a third-party, such as a prior owner or tenant. The Company has incurred, and continues to incur, costs to address soil and groundwater contamination at some locations. If such issues become more expensive to address, or if new issues arise, they could increase the Company's expenses, generate negative publicity, or otherwise adversely affect the Company.. The disruption, expense and potential liability associated with existing and future litigation against the Company could adversely affect its reputation, financial position or results of operations.. The Company may in the course of business be named as a defendant from time to time in lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to its business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, the Company cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on the Company's business, results of operations and financial position. In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings are expensive and may require that the Company devote substantial resources and executive time to the defense of such proceedings.. Provisions of Delaware law and the Company's certificate of incorporation and bylaws could prevent or delay a change in control or change in management that could be beneficial to the Company's stockholders.. Provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, as well as the Company's certificate of incorporation and bylaws, could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of the Company. These provisions are intended to provide the Company's Board of Directors with continuity and also serve to encourage negotiations between the Company's Board of Directors and any potential hostile acquirer. Such provisions include a Board of Directors that is classified so that only one-third of directors stand for election each year. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions that may be beneficial to the Company's stockholders.. There are risks, including stock market volatility, inherent in owning the Company's common stock.. The market price and volume of the Company's common stock have been, and may continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. These fluctuations may arise from general stock market conditions, the impact of risk factors described in this Item 1A on the Company's results of operations and financial position, or a change in opinion in the market regarding the Company's business prospects or other factors, many of which may be outside the Company's immediate control. Changes in the amounts and frequency of share repurchases or dividends also could adversely affect the value of the Company's common stock.. The Company's quarterly sales and earnings may fluctuate, and the Company or securities analysts may not accurately estimate the Company's financial results, which may result in volatility in, or a decline in, the Company's stock price.. The Company's quarterly sales and earnings can vary due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond the Company's control, including the following:.  In the wholesale business, sales of footwear are dependent on orders from major customers, who may change delivery schedules, change the mix of products they order or cancel orders without penalty..  Wholesale customers set the delivery schedule for shipments of the Company's products, which could cause shifts of sales between quarters..  Our estimated annual tax rate is based on projections of our domestic and international operating results for the year, which the Company reviews and revises as necessary each quarter..  Our earnings are also sensitive to a number of factors that are beyond the Company's control, including manufacturing and transportation costs, changes in product sales mix, geographic sales trends, weather conditions, customer demand, consumer sentiment and currency exchange rate fluctuations.. As a result of these specific and other general factors, the Company's operating results will vary from quarter to quarter and the results for any particular quarter may not be indicative of results for the full year. Any shortfall in sales or earnings from the levels expected by investors or securities analysts could cause a decrease in the trading price of the Company's common stock.. In addition, various securities analysts follow the Company's financial results and issue reports. These reports include information about the Company's historical financial results as well as the analysts' estimates of future performance. The analysts' estimates are based upon their own opinions and are often different from the Company's estimates or expectations. If the Company's operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, the Company's stock price could decline.. 19. Table of Contents. The Company's current level of indebtedness could adversely affect the Company by decreasing business flexibility and increasing borrowing costs.. The Company's current level of indebtedness could adversely affect the Company by decreasing its business flexibility and increasing its borrowing costs. The Company has debt outstanding under a senior secured credit agreement (\"Credit Agreement\") and senior notes. The Credit Agreement and the indenture governing the senior notes contain customary restrictive covenants imposing operating and financial restrictions on the Company, including restrictions that may limit the Company's ability to engage in acts that may be in its long-term best interests. These covenants restrict the ability of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries to, among other things: incur or guarantee indebtedness; incur liens; pay dividends or repurchase stock; enter into transactions with affiliates; consummate asset sales, acquisitions or mergers; prepay certain other indebtedness; or make investments. In addition, the restrictive covenants in the Credit Agreement require the Company to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests.. These restrictive covenants may limit the Company's ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. The Company's ability to comply with any financial covenants could be materially affected by events beyond its control and there can be no assurance that the Company will satisfy any such requirements. If the Company fails to comply with these covenants, it may need to seek waivers or amendments of such covenants, seek alternative or additional sources of financing or reduce its expenditures. The Company may be unable to obtain such waivers, amendments or alternative or additional financing on favorable terms or at all.. The Company's results of operations, financial position, and cash flows, and its ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks.. The Company's ability to conduct business in new and existing international markets is subject to legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks. These include:.  the burdens of complying with foreign laws and regulations, including trade and labor restrictions;.  compliance with U.S. and other countries' laws relating to foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"), which prohibits U.S. companies from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business;.  unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and.  new tariffs or other barriers in some international markets.. The Company is also subject to general political and economic risks in connection with our international operations, including:.  political instability and terrorist attacks;.  differences in business culture;.  different laws governing relationships with employees and business partners;.  changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and.  general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets.. The Company cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the United States or foreign countries upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have, if any, on the Company's business, financial condition, or results of operations. Changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social or economic policies and other factors may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business in the future or may require us to exit a particular market or significantly modify our current business practices.. The Company operates in many different international markets and could be adversely affected by violations of the FCPA and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws.. The FCPA and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. The Company's internal policies mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. Despite training and compliance programs, the Company cannot be assured that the internal control policies and procedures currently in place will always protect it from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents.. The Company's continued expansion internationally, including in developing countries, could increase the risk of FCPA violations in the future. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt the Company's business and result in a material adverse effect on the results of operations or financial condition.. 20. Table of Contents"
