[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to numerous risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC. Any of these risks could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. Risks Related to Our Business. If we cannot keep pace with rapid developments, changes and consolidation occurring in our industry and provide new services to our clients, the use of our services could decline, reducing our revenues.. The electronic payments market in which we operate is characterized by rapid technological change, new product and service introductions, including ecommerce services, mobile payment applications, and prepaid services, evolving industry standards, changing customer and consumer needs, the entrance of non-traditional competitors and periods of increased consolidation. In order to remain competitive in this rapidly evolving market, we are continually involved in a number of projects to develop new and innovative services. These projects carry risks, such as cost overruns, delays in delivery, performance problems and lack of market acceptance of new or innovated services. Any delay in the delivery of new services or the failure to differentiate our services or to accurately predict and address market demand could render our services less desirable, or even obsolete, to our clients.. In addition, the new or innovated services we develop are designed to process very complex transactions and provide information on those transactions, all at very high volumes and processing speeds. Any failure to deliver reliable, effective and secure services that meet the expectations of our clients could result in increased costs and/or a loss in business and revenues that could reduce our earnings. If we are unable to develop, adapt to or access technological changes or evolving industry standards on a timely and cost effective basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected.. The payment processing industry is highly competitive. Such competition could adversely affect the transaction and other fees we receive from merchants and financial institutions, and as a result, our margins, business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our competitors include financial institutions and well-established payment processing companies, including Bank of America Merchant Services, Chase Paymentech Solutions, Elavon Inc. (a subsidiary of U.S. Bancorp), First Data Corporation, Global Payments, Inc., and Total System Services, Inc. in our Merchant Services segment, and Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., First Data Corporation, Fiserv, Inc., Total System Services, Inc. and Visa Debit Processing Service in our Financial Institution Services segment. With respect to our Financial Institutions Services segment, in addition to competition with direct competitors, we also compete with the capabilities of many larger potential clients to conduct their key payment processing applications in-house.. In addition, our competitors that are financial institutions or are affiliated with financial institutions may not incur the sponsorship costs we incur for registration with the payment networks. Accordingly, these competitors may be able to offer more attractive fees to our current and prospective clients or other services that we do not provide. Competition could result in a loss of existing clients, and greater difficulty attracting new clients. Furthermore, if competition causes us to reduce the fees we charge in order to attract or retain clients, there is no assurance we can successfully control our costs in order to maintain our profit margins. One or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Furthermore, we are facing new competitive pressure from non-traditional payments processors and other parties entering the payments industry, such as PayPal, Google, Apple, Alibaba, Amazon, Square, Stripe and Adyen, who may compete in one or more of the functions performed in processing merchant transactions. These companies have significant financial resources and robust networks and are highly regarded by consumers. If these companies gain a greater share of total electronic payments transactions or if we are unable to successfully react to changes in the industry spurred by the entry of these new market participants, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Unauthorized disclosure of data, whether through cybersecurity breaches, computer viruses or otherwise, could expose us to liability, protracted and costly litigation and damage our reputation.. We have responsibility for certain third parties, including merchants, ISOs, third party service providers and other agents, which we refer to collectively as associated participants, under Visa, Mastercard and other payment network rules and. 15. Table of Contents. regulations. We and certain of our associated participants process, store and/or transmit sensitive data, such as names, addresses, social security numbers, credit or debit card numbers, driver's license numbers and bank account numbers, and we have ultimate liability to the payment networks and member financial institutions that register us with Visa, Mastercard and other payment networks for our failure or the failure of our associated participants to protect this data in accordance with payment network requirements. The loss of merchant or cardholder data by us or our associated participants could result in significant fines and sanctions by the payment networks or governmental bodies. A significant cybersecurity breach could also result in payment networks prohibiting us from processing transactions on their networks or the loss of our financial institution sponsorship that facilitates our participation in the payment networks, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. These concerns about security are increased when we transmit information over the Internet. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and are often difficult to detect. We and our associated participants have been in the past and could be in the future, subject to breaches of security by hackers. In such circumstances, our encryption of data and other protective measures have not prevented and may not prevent unauthorized access service disruption or system sabotage. Although we have not incurred material losses or liabilities as a result of security breaches we or our associated participants have experienced, any future breach of our system or an associated participant could be material and harm our reputation, deter clients and potential clients from using our services, increase our operating expenses, expose us to uninsured losses or other liabilities, increase our risk of regulatory scrutiny, subject us to lawsuits, result in material penalties and fines under state and federal laws or by the payment networks, and adversely affect our continued payment network registration and financial institution sponsorship.. We cannot assure you that our arrangements with associated participants will prevent the unauthorized use or disclosure of data or that we would be reimbursed by associated participants in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of data. Any such unauthorized use or disclosure of data could result in protracted and costly litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our systems and our third party providers' systems may fail or become obsolete due to not keeping pace with technology changes or factors beyond our control, which could interrupt our service, cause us to lose business and increase our costs.. We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of numerous systems, including our computer systems, software, data centers and telecommunications networks, as well as the systems of third parties, in order to provide services to our clients. Our systems and operations and those of our third party providers, could be exposed to damage or interruption from, among other things, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry, security breach, computer viruses, defects and development delays. Our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. Defects in our systems or those of third parties, errors or delays in the processing of payment transactions, telecommunications failures or other difficulties could result in loss of revenues and clients, reputational harm, additional operating expenses in order to remediate the failures, fines imposed by payment networks and exposure to other losses or other liabilities.. We may not be able to continue to expand our share of the existing payment processing markets or expand into new markets which would inhibit our ability to grow and increase our profitability.. Our future growth and profitability depend upon the growth of the markets in which we currently operate and our ability to increase our penetration and service offerings within these markets, as well as the emergence of new markets for our services and our ability to penetrate these new markets. It is difficult to attract new clients because of potential disadvantages associated with switching payment processing vendors, such as transition costs, business disruption and loss of accustomed functionality. We seek to overcome these factors by making investments to enhance the functionality of our software and differentiate our services. However, there can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful, and this resistance may adversely affect our growth.. Our expansion into new markets is also dependent upon our ability to adapt our existing technology and offerings or to develop new or innovative applications to meet the particular service needs of each new market. In order to do so, we will need to anticipate and react to market changes and devote appropriate financial and technical resources to our development efforts, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts.. Furthermore, in response to market developments, we may continue to expand into new geographical markets and foreign countries in which we do not currently have any operating experience. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully continue such expansion efforts due to our lack of experience and the multitude of risks associated with global operations or lack of appropriate regulatory approval.. 16. Table of Contents. Any acquisitions, partnerships or joint ventures that we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition.. Acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures are part of our growth strategy. We evaluate, and expect in the future to evaluate potential strategic acquisitions of, and partnerships or joint ventures with, complementary businesses, services or technologies. However, we may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition, partnership or joint venture candidates in the future. In addition, bank regulators may assert that an acquisition or other corporate initiative is inconsistent with applicable banking laws and regulations or is subject to limitations or approval requirements. Such limitations or approval requirements could limit our ability to acquire other businesses or enter into other strategic transactions.. If we do enter into acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures, they may not provide us with the benefits we anticipate. We may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses, services or technologies that we acquire or with which we form a partnership or joint venture, or comply with applicable regulatory requirements. Furthermore, the integration of any acquisition, including our recent acquisitions, may divert management's time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. Certain partnerships and joint ventures we make may also prevent us from competing for certain clients or in certain lines of business. To the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders. To the extent we pay the purchase price with proceeds from the incurrence of debt, it would increase our already high level of indebtedness and could negatively affect our liquidity and restrict our operations.. If we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the Visa, Mastercard or other payment networks, those payment networks could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations through our financial institution sponsors. Fines could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, and if these registrations are terminated, we may not be able to conduct our business.. In order to provide our transaction processing services, we are registered through our bank sponsorships with the Visa, Mastercard and other payment networks as service providers for member institutions. We and many of our clients are subject to payment network rules. If we or our associated participants do not comply with the payment network requirements, the payment networks could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations. We have occasionally received notices of noncompliance and fines, which have typically related to excessive chargebacks by a merchant or data security failures on the part of a merchant. If we are unable to recover fines from or pass through costs to our merchants or other associated participants, we would experience a financial loss. The termination of our registration, or any changes in the payment network rules that would impair our registration, could require us to stop providing payment network services to the Visa, Mastercard or other payment networks, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in payment network rules or standards could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Payment network rules are established and changed from time to time by each payment network as they may determine in their sole discretion and with or without advance notice to their participants. In some cases, payment networks compete with us, and their ability to modify and enhance their rules in their sole discretion may provide them an advantage in selling or developing their own services that may compete directly or indirectly with our services. Any changes in payment network rules or standards or the way they are implemented could increase our cost of doing business or limit our ability to provide transaction processing services to or through our clients and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we cannot pass along to our merchants increases in interchange and other fees from payment networks, our operating margins would be reduced.. We pay interchange, assessment, transaction and other fees set by the payment networks to the card issuing financial institution and the payment networks for each transaction we process. From time to time, the payment networks increase the interchange fees and other fees that they charge payment processors and the financial institution sponsors. At their sole discretion, our financial institution sponsors have the right to pass any increases in interchange and other fees on to us and they have consistently done so in the past. We are generally permitted under the contracts into which we enter, and in the past we have been able to, pass these fee increases along to our merchants through corresponding increases in our processing fees. However, if we are unable to pass through these and other fees in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 17. Table of Contents. If our agreements with financial institution sponsors and clearing service providers to process electronic payment transactions are terminated or otherwise expire and we are unable to renew existing or secure new sponsors or clearing service providers, we will not be able to conduct our business.. The Visa, Mastercard and other payment network rules require us to be sponsored by a member bank in order to process electronic payment transactions. Because we are not a bank, we are unable to directly access these payment networks. We are currently registered with the Visa, Mastercard and other payment networks through Fifth Third Bank and other sponsor banks. Our current agreement with Fifth Third Bank expires in December 2024. These agreements with Fifth Third Bank and other sponsors give them substantial discretion in approving certain aspects of our business practices, including our solicitation, application and qualification procedures for merchants and the terms of our agreements with merchants. Our financial institution sponsors' discretionary actions under these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also rely on Fifth Third Bank and various other financial institutions to provide clearing services in connection with our settlement activities. Without these sponsorships or clearing services agreements, we would not be able to process Visa, Mastercard and other payment network transactions or settle transactions which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our financial results could be adversely affected if our costs associated with such sponsorships or clearing services agreements increase.. Increased merchant, financial institution or referral partner attrition and decreased transaction volume could cause our revenues to decline.. We experience attrition and declines in merchant and financial institution credit, debit or prepaid card processing volume resulting from several factors, including business closures, consolidations, loss of accounts to competitors, account closures that we initiate due to heightened credit risks, and reductions in our merchants' sales volumes. Our referral partners, many of which are not exclusive, such as merchant banks, ISVs, VARs, payment facilitators, ISOs and trade associations are contributors to our revenue growth in our Merchant Services segment. If an ISO or referral partner switches to another transaction processor, shuts down or becomes insolvent, we will no longer receive new merchant referrals from the ISO or referral partner, and we risk losing existing merchants that were originally enrolled by the ISO or referral partner. We cannot predict the level of attrition and decreased transaction volume in the future and our revenues could decline as a result of higher than expected attrition, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to economic and political risk, the business cycles and credit risk of our clients and the overall level of consumer, business and government spending, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The electronic payments industry depends heavily on the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. We are exposed to general economic conditions that affect consumer confidence, consumer spending, consumer discretionary income or changes in consumer purchasing habits. A sustained deterioration in general economic conditions, particularly in the United States, or increases in interest rates may adversely affect our revenues by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions made using electronic payments that we process. Furthermore, if economic conditions cause credit card issuers to tighten credit requirements, the negative effects on the use of electronic payments could be exacerbated. Since we have a certain amount of fixed and semi-fixed costs, including rent, debt service, processing contractual minimums and salaries, our ability to quickly adjust costs and respond to changes in our business and the economy is limited. As a result, changes in economic conditions could adversely impact our future revenues and profits.. In addition, a sustained deterioration in economic conditions could affect our merchants through a higher rate of closures or bankruptcies, resulting in lower revenues and earnings for us. In addition, our merchants and other associated participants are liable for any charges properly reversed by the card issuer on behalf of the cardholder and for any fines or penalties that may be assessed by payment networks. In the event that we are not able to collect such amounts from the associated participants, due to closure, insolvency or other reasons, we may be liable for any such charges.. Fraud by merchants or others could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face potential liability for fraudulent electronic payment transactions initiated by merchants or other associated participants. Examples of merchant fraud include when a merchant or other party knowingly accepts payment by a stolen or counterfeit credit, debit or prepaid card, card number or other credentials records a false sales transaction utilizing a stolen or counterfeit card or credentials, processes an invalid card, or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an. 18. Table of Contents. otherwise valid transaction. In the event a dispute between a cardholder and a merchant is not resolved in favor of the merchant, the transaction is normally charged back to the merchant and the purchase price is credited or otherwise refunded to the cardholder. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud would increase our chargeback liability or other liability. In addition, beginning October 2015, merchants that cannot process EMV chip-based cards are held financially responsible for certain fraudulent transactions conducted using such cards. This will likely increase the amount of risk for merchants who are not yet EMV-compliant and could result in us having to seek increased chargebacks from such merchants. Increases in chargebacks or other liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A decline in the use of credit, debit or prepaid cards as a payment mechanism for consumers or adverse developments with respect to the payment processing industry in general could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If consumers do not continue to use credit, debit or prepaid cards as a payment mechanism for their transactions or if there is a change in the mix of payments between cash, alternative currencies and technologies, credit, debit and prepaid cards, or the corresponding methodologies used for each, which is adverse to us, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, if there is an adverse development in the payments industry in general, such as new legislation or regulation that makes it more difficult for our clients to do business, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. If Fifth Third Bank fails or is acquired by a third party, it could place certain of our material contracts at risk, decrease our revenue, and transfer the ultimate voting power of Fifth Third Bank's stock ownership in us (including any shares of Class A common stock that may be issued in exchange for Fifth Third Bank's units in Vantiv Holding) to a third party.. Fifth Third Bank accounted for less than 2% of our revenue during the year ended December 31, 2017 and is the provider of the services under our Clearing, Settlement and Sponsorship Agreement, Referral Agreement and Master Services Agreement. If Fifth Third Bank were to be placed into receivership or conservatorship, it could jeopardize our ability to generate revenue and conduct our business.. If Fifth Third Bank were to be acquired by a third party, it could affect certain of our contractual arrangements with them. For instance, in the event of a change of control or merger of Fifth Third Bank, our Clearing, Settlement and Sponsorship Agreement and our Referral Agreement provide that Fifth Third Bank may assign the contract to an affiliate or successor, in which case we would not have the right to terminate the contract regardless of such assignee's ability to perform such services. Our Master Services Agreement provides that Fifth Third Bank would be in default under the agreement upon a change of control, in which case we would have the right to terminate the agreement effective upon 60 days' notice to Fifth Third Bank unless the surviving entity assumes Fifth Third Bank's obligation and the level of fees paid to us pursuant to the Master Services Agreement remains equal or greater than fees paid to us prior to the change of control. In addition, the acquiring company may choose to terminate the terms of such contracts, requiring us to litigate if we believe such termination is not pursuant to contract terms, and find alternative clients, counterparties or sponsorships. The added expense of litigation and the inability to find suitable substitute clients or counterparties in a timely manner would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, such an acquisition would place in the hands of the acquiring third party the voting power of Fifth Third Bank's stock ownership in Worldpay, Inc. (including any shares of Class A common stock that may be issued in exchange for Fifth Third Bank's units in Vantiv Holding). We may not have a historical relationship with the acquiring party, and the acquiring party may be a competitor of ours or provide many of the same services that we provide. The acquiring party may vote its shares of our common stock or units in a manner adverse to us and our other stockholders.. Our risk management framework may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure against all types of risks.. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, manage and report our risks. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies such that there could be risks that we cannot anticipate or identify. If our risk management framework were to become ineffective, we could experience unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We and our clients are subject to extensive government regulation. Violations, perceived weaknesses in compliance or internal controls, or changes in the regulatory regime or industry standards may have an unfavorable impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation.. Our business is impacted by numerous laws, regulations, regulatory guidance and examinations that affect us and our industry, many of which are discussed under \"Item 1. Business - Regulation.\" The regulatory regime is evolving and subject to. 19. Table of Contents. new or changing laws and regulations, as well as changes in the way exiting laws and regulations are interpreted and enforced. For example, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, significantly changed the U.S. payment processing industry by restricting amounts of debit card fees that certain issuing financial institutions can charge merchants and allowing merchants to set minimum dollar amounts for the acceptance of credit cards and offer discounts for different payment methods. These and other regulatory changes on our business and industry could negatively affect our business in a variety of ways including the number of debit transactions, and prices charged per transaction.. In the future, due to applicable law and regulation, we may have to seek and obtain additional licenses in various jurisdictions. If we fail or are unable to comply with these requirements, our clients (or in certain instances, we) could be subject to the imposition of fines, other penalties or enforcement-related actions which may impact our ability to offer our credit issuer processing services, prepaid or other related services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Because our business is highly regulated, it is very important to our business that our operations, policies and procedures comply with applicable laws, regulations and related requirements. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or our failure to adapt to changes in the regulatory regime, industry standards, or social expectations of corporate fairness, could increase our costs or result in enforcement, litigation, or other governmental action against us, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and reputation.. Governmental regulations designed to protect or limit access to consumer information could adversely affect our ability to effectively provide our services to merchants.. Governmental bodies in the United States and abroad have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, laws and regulations restricting the transfer of, and requiring safeguarding of, non-public personal information. For example, in the United States, all financial institutions must undertake certain steps to ensure the privacy and security of consumer financial information. Although we have limited our use of consumer information solely to providing services to other businesses and financial institutions, we are required by regulations and contracts with our merchants and financial institution clients to provide assurances regarding the confidentiality and security of non-public consumer information. These contracts require periodic audits by independent companies regarding our compliance with industry standards and also allow for similar audits regarding best practices established by regulatory guidelines. The compliance standards relate to our infrastructure, components and operational procedures designed to safeguard the confidentiality and security of non-public consumer personal information shared by our clients with us. Our ability to maintain compliance with these standards and satisfy these audits will affect our ability to attract and maintain business in the future. If we fail to comply with these regulations or requirements, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract or to governmental proceedings. In addition, our client relationships and reputation could be harmed, and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new clients. Furthermore, the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which becomes effective in May 2018, requires companies to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data and substantially increases the penalties for non-compliance.  Our GDPR compliance efforts could cause us to incur significant expenses, and if more restrictive privacy laws or rules are adopted by authorities in the future on the federal or state level, our compliance costs may increase, our opportunities for growth may be curtailed by our compliance capabilities or reputational harm and our potential liability for security breaches may increase, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to regulation, supervision, examination, and enforcement authority of banking regulators and the CFPB because we provide services to banks and other financial institutions. Our failure to comply with applicable banking laws, or our failure to meet supervisory expectations of the banking regulators or CFPB, could result in adverse regulatory action against us and limit our activities or ability to execute corporate initiatives. In addition, banking regulators could also assert that our relationship with Fifth Third Bank causes our business to be subject to limits on our activities or future corporate initiatives.. Because we provide data processing and other services to U.S. banks, we are subject to regular oversight and examination by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC), which is an inter-agency body of federal banking regulators.  Because we are a service provider to insured depository institutions with assets of $10 billion or more in connection with their consumer financial products and to entities that are larger participants in markets for consumer financial products and services such as prepaid cards, we are subject to regulation and enforcement by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). Our business may also be affected by banking regulation because Fifth Third Bank is an investor in us. Banking regulators could assert that Fifth Third Bank's investment in, or other relationships with, us impose limitations, conditions or approval requirements affecting our activities, investments or acquisitions. The imposition of such limitations, conditions or approval requirements could have an adverse impact on our business, such as by preventing us from pursuing an otherwise attractive acquisition or business opportunity. We have agreed with Fifth Third Bank to a framework for addressing. 20. Table of Contents. any such limitations, conditions or approval requirements.  See the section above entitled \"Banking Regulation\" for a more detailed discussion of such framework.. The banking regulators and CFPB have broad discretion in the implementation, interpretation and enforcement of banking and consumer protection laws. Our failure to comply with these laws, or our failure to meet the supervisory expectations of the banking regulators or CFPB, could result in adverse action against us. The regulators have the power to, among other things, enjoin \"unsafe or unsound\" practices; require affirmative actions to correct any violation or practice; issue administrative orders that can be judicially enforced; direct the sale of subsidiaries or other assets; and assess civil money penalties.. Changes in tax laws or their interpretations, or becoming subject to additional international, U.S., state or local taxes that cannot be passed through to our merchants, could reduce our net income.. We are subject to tax laws in each jurisdiction where we do business. Changes in tax laws or their interpretations could decrease the amount of revenues we receive, the value of any tax loss carryforwards and tax credits recorded on our balance sheet and the amount of our cash flow, and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, companies in the electronic payments industry, including us, may become subject to incremental taxation in various tax jurisdictions. Taxing jurisdictions have not yet adopted uniform positions on this topic. If we are required to pay additional taxes and are unable to pass the tax expense through to our merchants, our costs would increase and our net income would be reduced.. The costs and effects of pending and future litigation, investigations or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our business, financial position and results of operations.. We are involved in various litigation matters and from time to time may be involved in governmental or regulatory investigations or similar matters arising out of our current or future business. Our insurance or indemnities may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves in pending or future litigation or similar matters under various laws. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any pending litigation or future litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to successfully manage our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims.. Third parties may challenge, invalidate, circumvent, infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property, or such intellectual property may not provide us any competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain service offerings or other competitive harm. Our competitors could also independently develop similar technology, duplicate our services or design around our intellectual property. We may be forced to litigate to enforce or determine the scope and enforceability of our intellectual property rights, trade secrets and know-how, which is expensive, could cause a diversion of resources and may not prove successful. Also, we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from third parties on reasonable terms or at all. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to obtain third party intellectual property could harm our business and ability to compete.. We may also be subject to costly litigation in the event our services and technology infringe upon or otherwise violate a third party's proprietary rights, or if a third party claims we have breached their copyright, trademark, license usage or other intellectual property rights. Any claim from third parties may result in a limitation on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims. Additionally, we could be required to defend against individuals and groups who have been purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies like ours. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to pay costly settlement or damage awards, or prevent us from marketing or selling certain of our services. If we cannot redesign affected services or license the infringed technology on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our revenue and earnings could be adversely impacted.. Finally, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software, which we use in connection with our technology and services. Despite our efforts to prevent it from occurring, we could be required to by some of our open source software licenses to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software and/or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. Any requirement to disclose our proprietary source code could be harmful to our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 21. Table of Contents. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract, recruit, retain and develop qualified employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. We are dependent upon the ability and experience of a number of our key personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, the rapidly changing payment processing industry and the selected markets in which we offer our services. The loss of the services of one or a combination of our senior executives or key managers, including Charles D. Drucker, our chief executive officer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, in order for us to successfully compete and grow, we must attract, recruit, retain and develop the necessary personnel who can provide the needed expertise across the entire spectrum of our intellectual capital needs. We have hired significant numbers of new personnel in recent years and must continue to hire additional personnel to execute our strategic plans. However, the market for qualified personnel is competitive, and we may not succeed in recruiting additional personnel or may fail to effectively replace current personnel who depart. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our operating results are subject to seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our quarterly net income.. We have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our revenues as a result of consumer spending patterns. Historically our revenues have been strongest in our fourth quarter, and weakest in our first quarter. This is due to the increase in the number and amount of electronic payment transactions related to seasonal retail events.. We may need to raise additional funds to finance our future capital needs, which may prevent us from growing our business.. We may need to raise additional funds to finance our future capital needs, including developing new services and technologies, and to fund ongoing operating expenses. We also may need additional financing earlier than we anticipate if we, among other things:. • are required to pay significant settlements or fines;. • repurchase our common stock; or. • finance Worldpay, Inc.'s purchase of Class B units of Vantiv Holding from Fifth Third Bank upon the exercise of its right to put its Class B units of Vantiv Holding to Worldpay, Inc. in exchange for cash to the extent that we decide to purchase rather than exchange such units for Class A common stock.. If we raise additional funds through the sale of equity securities, these transactions may dilute the value of our outstanding Class A common stock. We may also decide to issue securities, including debt securities that have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our Class A common stock. Any debt financing would increase our already high level of indebtedness and could negatively affect our liquidity and restrict our operations. We may be unable to raise additional funds on terms favorable to us or at all. If financing is not available or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our future needs. This may prevent us from increasing our market share, capitalizing on new business opportunities or remaining competitive in our industry.. We have a long sales cycle for many of our services, and if we fail to close sales after expending significant time and resources to do so, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The initial installation and set-up of many of our services often involve significant resource commitments by our clients, particularly those with larger operational scale. Potential clients generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available services and require us to expend substantial time (six to nine months is not uncommon), effort and money educating them as to the value of our services. We incur substantial costs in order to obtain each new customer. We may expend significant funds and management resources during a sales cycle and ultimately fail to close the sale. Our sales cycle may be extended due to our clients' budgetary constraints or for other reasons. If we are unsuccessful in closing sales after expending significant funds and management resources or we experience delays, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 22. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness and Organizational Structure. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our debt obligations.. We have a high level of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2017, we had total indebtedness of $5.7 billion. For the year ended December 31, 2017, total payments under our annual debt service obligations, including interest and principal, were approximately $253 million. Subsequent to the closing of the Legacy Worldpay acquisition, we had total indebtedness of approximately $8.3 billion.  Our high degree of leverage could have significant negative consequences, including:. • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments;. • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;. • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings, including our borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest;. • making it more difficult for us to comply with the obligations of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, which could result in an event of default under the agreements governing such indebtedness;. • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;. • making it more difficult for us to obtain payment network sponsorship and clearing services from financial institutions;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged and who, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting.. As of the closing of the Legacy Worldpay acquisition mentioned above, the majority of our indebtedness consists of indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities consisting of a $3.8 billion term A-5 loan which matures in 2023, a $179 million term A-3 loan which matures in 2021, a $1.8 billion term B-4 loan which matures in 2024, and a $757 million term B-3 loan which matures in 2023. Our indebtedness also consists of $1.1 billion senior unsecured notes due in 2025 and a $613 million senior unsecured note due in 2022 (See Note 21 - Subsequent Events from Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion). We may not be able to refinance our senior secured credit facilities or any other indebtedness because of our high level of debt, debt incurrence restrictions under our debt agreements or because of adverse conditions in credit markets generally.. Despite our high indebtedness level, we still may be able to incur significant additional amounts of debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. Although our senior secured credit facilities contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. For example, we may incur up to $1.25 billion of additional debt pursuant to an incremental facility under our senior secured credit facilities, subject to certain terms and conditions.. Our use of derivative financial instruments may not be successful in managing our interest rate risks and could result in material financial losses by us.. To the extent that we hedge our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, we forgo the benefits we would otherwise experience if interest rates were to change in our favor. Developing an effective strategy for dealing with movements in interest rates is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with such fluctuations. In addition, a counterparty to the arrangement could default on its obligation, thereby exposing us to credit risk. Further, we may have to repay certain costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs, if we terminate these arrangements. Finally, our interest rate risk management activities could expose us to substantial losses if interest rates move materially differently from management's expectations. As a result, we cannot assure that our interest rate hedging arrangements will effectively manage our interest rate sensitivity or have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition.. 23. Table of Contents. Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. The impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent 56% of our total assets at December 31, 2017. These assets consist primarily of goodwill and customer relationship intangible assets associated with our acquisitions. Additional acquisitions would also result in our recognition of additional goodwill and intangible assets. As a result of the Legacy Worldpay acquisition we will add a significant amount of additional goodwill and customer relationships to our balance sheet.  Under current accounting standards, we are required to amortize certain intangible assets over the useful life of the asset, while goodwill is not amortized. On at least an annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill and certain intangible assets. If the carrying value of the asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. An impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We are party to tax receivable agreements and the amounts we may be required to pay under these agreements are expected to be significant. In certain cases, payments under the tax receivable agreements may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreements.. We are party to tax receivable agreements (\"TRAs\") as further described in \"Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\"  The payments we will be required to make under these TRAs are expected to be substantial. As of December 31, 2017, we have a liability recorded of approximately $780.6 million associated with the TRAs. Because payments under the TRAs are determined based on realized cash savings resulting from the underlying tax attributes, a period of declining profitability would result in a corresponding reduction in our TRA payments, except in certain specified circumstances where we may be required to make payments in excess of such cash savings. We will incur additional liabilities in connection with any future purchases by us of units in Vantiv Holding from Fifth Third Bank or from the future exchange of units by Fifth Third Bank for cash or shares of our Class A common stock.  If Fifth Third Bank had exchanged its remaining Class B units of Vantiv Holding all for shares of Class A common stock on December 31, 2017, we would have recorded an additional full and undiscounted TRA obligation of approximately $350.0 million.  This estimate is subject to material change based on changes in Fifth Third Bank's tax basis in the partnership interest, changes in tax rates, or significant changes in our stock price.  It is possible that future transactions or events, including changes in tax rates, could increase or decrease the actual tax benefits realized and the corresponding TRA payments. There may be a material adverse effect on our liquidity if, as a result of timing discrepancies or otherwise, distributions to us by Vantiv Holding are not sufficient to permit us to make payments under the TRAs.. The TRAs provide that, upon certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combination or certain other changes of control, our obligations to make payments with respect to tax benefits would be based on certain assumptions, including that we would have sufficient taxable income to fully use the NOLs or deductions arising from increased tax basis of assets. As a result, upon a merger or other change of control, we could be required to make payments under the TRAs that are greater than 85% of our actual tax savings.. We may elect to terminate any or all of the remaining TRAs prior to the time they terminate in accordance with their terms, or enter into repurchase addendums providing for the early settlement of certain obligations. If we were to so elect, or if we materially breach a material obligation in the TRAs and we do not cure such breach within a specified time period, we would be required to make an immediate payment equal to the present value of the anticipated future tax benefits taken into account under the TRAs. In these circumstances, the anticipated future tax benefits would be determined under certain assumptions that in general assume that we would recognize the greatest amount of benefits at the earliest time. As a result, the payments we would be required to make could exceed 85% of the tax savings that we actually realize from the increased tax basis and/or the NOLs, and we could be required to make those payments significantly in advance of the time the tax savings arise.. If the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, challenges the tax basis increases or NOLs that give rise to payments under the TRAs and the tax basis increases or NOLs are subsequently disallowed, our payments under the TRAs could exceed our actual tax savings, and we may not be able to recoup payments under the TRAs that were calculated on the assumption that the disallowed tax savings were available.. 24. Table of Contents. We are a holding company and our principal assets are our interests in Vantiv Holding, and we depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from Vantiv Holding to meet any existing or future debt service and other obligations and to pay dividends, if any, and taxes and other expenses.. We are a holding company and conduct all of our operations through Vantiv Holding and its subsidiaries. We have no material assets other than our ownership of units of Vantiv Holding. To the extent that we need funds and Vantiv Holding is restricted from making distributions to us under applicable law or regulation, or by the terms of Vantiv Holding's indebtedness, or Vantiv Holding is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity and, consequently, our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Some provisions of Delaware law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may deter third parties from acquiring us and diminish the value of our Class A common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws provide for, among other things:. • restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to call a special meeting and the business that can be conducted at such meeting;. • prohibition on the ability of our stockholders to remove directors elected by the holders of our Class A common stock without cause;. • our ability to issue additional shares of Class A common stock and to issue preferred stock with terms that the board of directors may determine, in each case without stockholder approval (other than as specified in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation);. • the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors;. • supermajority approval requirements for amending or repealing provisions in the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws;. • a classified board of directors;. • a prohibition on action by written consent of stockholders; and. • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations.. These provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company that is in the best interest of our stockholders. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Class A common stock if they are viewed as discouraging future takeover attempts. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to nominate directors for election to our board of directors and take other corporate actions.. Risks Related to the Ownership of our Class A Common Stock. Future sales of our Class A common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for Class A common stock could depress the market price of our Class A common stock.. Sales of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. As of December 31, 2017, we had 162,595,981 shares of Class A common stock outstanding. Subject to compliance with applicable documentation, which includes the Exchange Agreement, Fifth Third Bank could acquire up to 15,252,826 shares of our Class A common stock.  Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, Fifth Third Bank is entitled to certain demand and \"piggyback\" registration rights and any shares of our Class A common stock that are sold by Fifth Third Bank pursuant to such a registration would become eligible for sale in the public market without restriction.  In addition, we have filed registration statements on Form S-8 relating to an aggregate of 39,750,519 shares of our Class A common stock that we have issued or may issue in the future pursuant to employee benefit plans. These shares may be sold in the public market upon issuance and once vested, subject to the terms of the equity incentive plan and applicable award agreements.. 25. Table of Contents. Failure to maintain effective systems of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide accurate financial information.  If we are unable to adequately maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and negatively affect the trading price of our common stock.  Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures will prevent all possible error and fraud. Because of inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of error or fraud, if any, in our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake, which could have an adverse impact on our business.. The price of our Class A common stock may be volatile.. Securities markets worldwide have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions could reduce the market price of our Class A common stock regardless of our results of operations. The trading price of our Class A common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide price fluctuations in response to various factors, including, among other things, the risk factors described in this section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and other factors beyond our control.  Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock will include:. • market conditions in the broader stock market;. • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly financial and operating results;. • variations in operating results of similar companies;. • introduction of new services by us, our competitors or our clients. • issuance of new, negative or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations or estimates;. • investor perceptions of us and the industries in which we or our clients operate;. • sales, or anticipated sales, of our stock, including sales by existing stockholders;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • regulatory or political developments;. • stock-based compensation expense under applicable accounting standards;. • litigation and governmental investigations; and. • changing economic conditions.. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for shares of our Class A common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of Class A common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our Class A common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. Securities litigation against us, regardless of the merits or outcome, could result in substantial costs and divert the time and attention of our management from our business, which could significantly harm our business, profitability and reputation.. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock since our initial public offering, and we do not intend to in the foreseeable future.. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock since our initial public offering, and we do not intend to in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to repay indebtedness and to support our general corporate purposes. We are a holding company that does not conduct any business operations of our own. As a result, our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock, if any, is dependent upon cash dividends and distributions and other transfers from Vantiv Holding. The amounts available to us to pay cash dividends are also restricted by our subsidiaries' debt agreements, and, to the extent that we require additional funding, the sources of such additional funding may prohibit the payment of a dividend. As a result, appreciation in the price of our Class A common stock, if any, will be the only source of gain on an investment in our Class A common stock.. 26. Table of Contents. Risks Related to our Acquisition of Legacy Worldpay. Since we closed the Legacy Worldpay acquisition (\"the Acquisition\") in January 2018, our business is subject to a number of risks, whether currently known or unknown, including but not limited to those described below, related to the acquisition and the new business environment in which we operate.. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits and operating synergies expected from the Acquisition, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. The success of the Acquisition will depend, in significant part, on our ability to successfully integrate the acquired business, grow our revenue and realize the anticipated strategic benefits and synergies from the Acquisition. We believe that the addition of Legacy Worldpay will complement our strategy by providing scale and revenue diversity, accelerate our growth strategy and enable us to have a strong global footprint. Achieving these goals requires growth of the revenue and realization of the targeted operating synergies expected from the Acquisition. This growth and the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than we expect. Actual operating, technological, strategic and revenue opportunities, if achieved at all, may be less significant than we expect or may take longer to achieve than anticipated. If we are not able to achieve these objectives and realize the anticipated benefits and synergies expected from the Acquisition within a reasonable time, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected.. The Acquisition will result in significant integration costs and any material delays or unanticipated additional expenses may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The complexity and magnitude of the integration effort associated with the Acquisition are significant and require that we fund significant capital and operating expenses to support the integration of the combined operations. Such expenses have included significant transaction, consulting and third party service fees. We incurred integration planning costs during 2017 and anticipate that we may incur additional integration implementation costs through 2020. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur additional operating expenses as we build up internal resources or engage third party providers while we integrate the combined company following the Acquisition. In addition to these transition costs, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur increased expenses relating to, among other things, restructuring. Any material delays, difficulties or unanticipated additional expenses associated with integration activities may harm our business, financial conditions and results of operations.. We may not be able to successfully integrate Legacy Worldpay or, maintain or renew certain of Legacy Worldpay's commercial relationships.. Our acquisition of Legacy Worldpay involves the integration of two businesses that currently operate independently. The integration of the departments, systems, business units, operating procedures and information technologies of the two businesses will present a significant challenge to management. There can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate and manage these operations effectively or that such operations, once integrated, will provide us with the benefits we anticipate. The failure to successfully integrate the two businesses in a timely manner, or at all, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be unable to renew certain business relationships maintained by Legacy Worldpay on terms favorable to us or at all, including but not limited to Legacy Worldpay's relationships with the Royal Bank of Scotland and Citizens Bank.  The challenges of combining us with Legacy Worldpay include:. •  the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations;. •  implementing common systems and controls;. •  integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds;. •  the challenges in developing new products and services that optimize the assets and resources of the two businesses;. •  integrating the businesses' technology and products;. •  combining different corporate cultures;. •  unanticipated expenses related to integration, including technical and operational integration;. •  increased fixed costs and unanticipated liabilities that may affect operating results;. •  retaining key employees; and. •  retaining and maintaining relationships with existing customers, distributors and other partners.. 27. Table of Contents. Also, the process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or both of us and Legacy Worldpay. The diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of the operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Acquisition may expose us to significant unanticipated liabilities that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our acquisition of Legacy Worldpay may expose us to significant unanticipated liabilities relating to the operation of the combined company. These liabilities could include employment, regulatory, retirement or severance-related obligations under applicable law or other benefit arrangements, legal claims, warranty or similar liabilities to customers, and claims by or amounts owed to vendors. Particularly in international jurisdictions, our acquisition of Legacy Worldpay, or our decision to independently enter new international markets where Legacy Worldpay previously conducted business, could also expose us to tax liabilities and other amounts owed by Legacy Worldpay. The incurrence of such unforeseen or unanticipated liabilities, should they be significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The complexity of the integration and transition associated with the Acquisition, together with our increased scale and global presence, may affect our internal control over financial reporting and our ability to effectively and timely report our financial results.. The additional scale of Legacy Worldpay's operations, together with the complexity of the integration effort, including changes to or implementation of critical information technology systems, may adversely affect our ability to report our financial results on a timely basis. In addition, we will have to train new employees and third party providers, and assume operations in jurisdictions where we have not previously had operations. We expect that the Acquisition may necessitate significant modifications to our internal control systems, processes and information systems, both on a transition basis and over the longer-term as we fully integrate. Due to the complexity of the Acquisition, there can be no assurances that changes to our internal control over financial reporting will be effective for any period, or on an ongoing basis. If we are unable to accurately report our financial results in a timely manner, or are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market perception thereof may be materially adversely affected.. As a result of the Acquisition of Legacy Worldpay, our business is now international in nature, which subjects us to various geopolitical, regulatory, tax and business risks, including movement in foreign exchange rates.. Our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Operating in foreign countries, especially in the U.K and the European Union countries, subjects us to multiple risks, including:. • differing local product preferences and product requirements;. • geopolitical events, including natural disasters, public health issues, acts of war, nationalism and terrorism, social unrest or human rights issues;. • partial or total expropriation of international assets;. • trade protection measures, including tariffs or import-export restrictions;. • enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights;. • different, uncertain, or more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy, and other laws; and. • potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws or policies.. Violations of the complex foreign and U.S. laws, rules and regulations that apply to our international operations may result in fines, criminal actions, or sanctions against us, our officers, or our colleagues; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, violations by our colleagues, contractors, or agents could nevertheless occur. These risks are inherent in our international operations and expansion, may increase our costs of doing business internationally, and could harm our business and reputation. In addition, we may in the future undertake projects and make investments in countries in which we have little or no previous investment or operating experience. We may not be able to fully or accurately assess the risks of investing in such countries, or may be unfamiliar with the laws and regulations in such countries governing its investments and. 28. Table of Contents. operations. As a result, we may be unable to effectively implement its strategy in new jurisdictions. Investment opportunities in certain jurisdictions may be also restricted by legal limits on foreign investment in local assets or classes of assets.. We may incur losses associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and may not be able to effectively hedge our exposure.. Following the Acquisition of Legacy Worldpay, we have an increased proportion of assets, liabilities and earnings denominated in foreign currencies, particularly British pound sterling and the Euro. As a result, a depreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could have an adverse impact on our financial results and affect our reported results of operations and the value of its assets and liabilities in its consolidated balance sheet in future periods.. We attempt to mitigate a portion of these risks through foreign currency hedging based on our judgment of the appropriate trade-offs among risk, opportunity and expense, and we regularly review our program to partially hedge our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and make adjustments as necessary. Although these hedging arrangements are in place to mitigate foreign currency risk, such arrangements may prove ineffective in protecting us from any negative impacts of foreign exchange fluctuations and our financial condition and results of operation will therefore be sensitive to movements in foreign exchange rates.. Global economic and political uncertainty, including Brexit, could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.. As a result of the international nature of our business, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in global economic and political conditions. Uncertainty about the effects of current and future economic and political conditions on us, our customers, suppliers and partners makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. Deterioration in economic conditions in any of the countries in which we do business could result in reductions in sales of our products and services and could cause slower or impaired collections on accounts receivable, which may adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition.. The June 2016 referendum supporting the exit of the U.K. from the European Union (\"Brexit\") specifically is causing significant political uncertainty in both the U.K. and the European Union. The impact of Brexit and the resulting effect on the political and economic future of the U.K. and the European Union is uncertain, and our business may be adversely affected in ways we do not currently anticipate. Brexit may result in a significant change in the British regulatory environment, which may likely increase our compliance costs. We may find it more difficult to conduct business in the U.K. and the European Union, as Brexit may result in increased restrictions on the movement of capital, goods and personnel. Depending on the outcome of negotiations between the U.K. and the European Union regarding the terms of Brexit, we may decide to relocate or otherwise alter our European operations to respond to the new business, legal, regulatory, tax and trade environments that may result.. As with any political instability or adverse political developments in or around any of the major countries in which we do business, developments related to Brexit may materially and adversely affect with customers, suppliers and employees and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Failure to comply with the laws and regulations of the United States as well as those of many foreign countries may affect our ability to conduct business in certain countries and may affect our financial performance.. We are subject to a variety of laws regarding our international operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, regulations issued by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the U.S. Bureau of Industry and Security, import and export control laws, payment card industry data security standards, anti-trust and competition laws, securities regulations and regulations of various foreign governmental and regulatory agencies. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. Compliance with these laws and regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in our business practices that result in reduced revenue and profitability. Non-compliance could also result in fines, damages, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation.. While we seek to actively monitor the regulatory status of our activities across all the jurisdictions in which we operate, there is a level of complexity that we face in terms of interpreting, complying with and tracking changes to licensing requirements meaning it is not always possible to determine whether our merchant acquiring and other payment processing activities are, or are treated by regulators as amounting to, regulated activity, and applicable laws and regulations are often vague as to whether or not they definitively cover such activities. Actual or alleged violations of any relevant laws or regulations could result in enforcement actions and financial penalties that could result in substantial costs and reputational. 29. Table of Contents. damage and could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In particular, we are in a process of reviewing our approximately 60 alternative payment method providers which is expected to complete during 2018. Although no adverse impact has occurred to date or is expected, the completion of this review could lead to customer attrition and failure to complete the exercise in a timely manner could give rise to other forms of legal and regulatory risk.. In addition, we are exposed to changes in laws governing our employee relationships in various U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, including laws and regulations regarding wage and hour requirements, fair labor standards, employee data privacy, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll and other taxes, which likely would have a direct impact on our operating costs.. Holders of Depositary Interests must rely on the Depositary or the Custodian to exercise rights attaching to our shares for the benefit of the holders of Depositary Interests.. We have entered into depositary arrangements to enable investors to settle and pay for our shares through CREST, which is the central securities depository in the U.K. The rights of holders of Depositary Interests will be governed by, among other things, the relevant provisions of the CREST Manual and the CREST Rules (as defined in the CREST Terms and Conditions issued by Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited (\"EUI\")). As the registered holder, the Depositary will have the power to exercise voting and other rights conferred by Delaware law and the bylaws of Worldpay on behalf of the relevant holder. Consequently, the holders of Depositary Interests must rely on the Depositary to exercise such rights for the benefit of the holders of Depositary Interests. Although we will enter into arrangements whereby EUI will make a copy of the register of the names and addresses of holders of Depositary Interests available to the Company to enable it to send out notices of shareholder meetings and proxy forms to its holders of Depositary Interests and pursuant to EUI's omnibus proxy arrangements, subject to certain requirements, the Depositary will be able to give each beneficial owner of a Depositary Interest the right to vote directly in respect of such owner's underlying Worldpay Shares, there can be no assurance that such information, and consequently, all such rights and, entitlements, will at all times be duly and timely passed on or that such proxy arrangements will be effective.. The standard listing of our shares affords investors a lower level of regulatory protection than a premium listing.. Our shares are admitted to the standard segment of the Official List of the LSE. A standard listing affords investors in Worldpay a lower level of regulatory protection than that afforded to investors in a company with a premium listing, which is subject to additional obligations under the Listing Rules. A standard listing also does not permit us to gain a FTSE UK Index Series indexation (which includes the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 indices), which may have an adverse effect on the price of our shares.. There is currently a limited U.K. market for our shares and no U.K. trading history prior to our Acquisition of Legacy Worldpay. A robust U.K. market for our shares may not develop, which would adversely affect the liquidity and price of our shares.. Because of the relatively low trading volume of our shares listed on the LSE, and the lack of a trading history prior to our Acquisition of Legacy Worldpay, investors in the United Kingdom have limited information when making their decision to invest. Although our current intention is that our shares will continue to trade on the LSE, we cannot assure investors that it this will always be the case. In addition, an active U.K. trading market for our shares may never develop or, if developed, may not be maintained. Investors, particularly investors outside of the United States, may be unable to sell their Worldpay shares unless a market can be established and maintained, and if we subsequently obtain a further listing on an exchange in addition to, or in lieu of, the LSE, the level of liquidity of our shares may decline.. Our shares are listed on two separate markets and investors seeking to take advantage of price differences between such markets may create unexpected volatility in our share price. In addition, investors may not be able to easily move shares for trading between such markets.. Our shares are listed and traded on both the NYSE and on the LSE. While our shares are traded on both markets, price and volume levels could fluctuate significantly on either market, independent on the share price or trading volume on the other market. Investors could seek to sell or buy our shares to take advantage of any price differences between the two markets through a process referred to as arbitrage. Any arbitrage activity could create unexpected volatility in both the price of our shares on either exchange and in the volume of our shares available for trading on either market. In addition, holders of our shares in either jurisdiction will not immediately be able to transfer such shares for trading on the other market without effecting necessary procedures with our transfer agents/registrars. This could result in time delays and additional cost for our Shareholders.. 30. Table of Contents"
