[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. There are inherent risks and uncertainties associated with our business that could adversely affect our operating performance and financial condition. Set forth below are descriptions of those risks and uncertainties that we currently believe to be material, but the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. See the discussion under \"Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the 'Safe Harbor' Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995\" in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Our failure to maintain or renew key agreements could adversely affect our ability to distribute our video content, WWE Network, our films and/or other of our goods and services, which could adversely affect our operating results. We expect to renegotiate or replace our major domestic television distribution agreement in 2018.. Our video content is distributed by cable, satellite and broadcast television networks and digital platforms around the globe.  As detailed below, we depend on third parties for many aspects of the operation and distribution of WWE Network. Our films are generally also distributed by other, more established film companies. Because a large portion of our revenues are generated, directly and indirectly, from this distribution, any failure to maintain (such as due to a breach or alleged breach by either party) or renew arrangements with distributors and platforms, the failure of distributors or platforms to continue to provide services to us or the failure to enter into new distribution opportunities on terms favorable to us could adversely affect our financial outlook, liquidity, business and operating results. We regularly engage in negotiations relating to substantial agreements covering the distribution of our video content by carriers located in the United States and abroad. We have a substantial relationship with NBCU as they distribute the vast majority of our television programming domestically through their cable networks. This relationship constitutes a significant percentage of our revenues and the main agreement governing this relationship is currently set to expire in September 2019. We expect that, during 2018, we will negotiate a renewal of this main agreement with NBCU or will negotiate one or more new video content licenses with other distributors to replace it, although no assurances can be given as to this timeline.  The number of subscribers and ratings of cable television networks and advertising revenues in general have been reported as being impacted by viewers moving to alternative video content providers, a process known as \"cord cutting\" and \"cord shaving\". Many well-funded digital companies have been competing with the traditional television business model and, while it has been widely reported that they are paying significant amounts for video content, it is not clear that these digital distributors will replace the importance (in terms of money paid for content, viewer penetration and other factors) of television distribution to video content owners such as WWE. For this or any other number of reasons, including those detailed elsewhere in these Risk Factors, the Company may not be able to renew or replace our principal domestic television distribution agreement on terms favorable to us. Any resulting loss of revenue could be substantial.  Moreover, to the extent that the price of the Company's Class A Common Stock reflects market expectations of an improvement in future operating results due, in whole or in part, to this domestic video content negotiation, any failure to meet that market expectation could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Many of our other goods and services, such as our toys, video games and home video offerings are manufactured and sold by other parties under licenses of our intellectual property or distribution agreements. Our inability for any of the reasons set forth in these Risk Factors to maintain and/or renew these agreements on terms favorable to us could adversely affect our financial outlook, liquidity, business and/or operating results.. The Company has spent, and plans to continue to spend, substantial amounts to produce content, build infrastructure and market our WWE Network. If, for any number of reasons, we are unable to continue to develop and monetize this distribution platform successfully, these additional costs, and the loss of very significant revenue, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Need to Attract, Retain and Replace Subscribers.  We believe that WWE has a passionate fan base. However, the markets for entertainment video are intensely competitive and include many subscription, transactional and ad-supported models and vast amounts of pirated materials, all of which capture segments of the entertainment video market. These markets have and are expected to continue to be subject to rapid changes, and new technologies and evolving business models are developing at a fast pace. The Company expects this competition to continue to grow and the markets to continue to transform.  Many players that have entered this space have vastly greater financial and marketing resources than the Company as well as longer operating histories, large customer bases and strong brand recognition. These competitors may secure better terms from suppliers, aggressively price their offerings and devote more technology and marketing resources. Offerings include subscription digital services from Amazon, CBS, ESPN, HBO, Hulu, MLB, Netflix, NFL Network, Nickelodeon, Showtime, YouTube and many others. Certain of these competitors have begun to bundle digital networks. Other competitors for viewers of video content include broadcast, cable and satellite television, many of which have so-called \"TV everywhere\", stand-alone streaming and/or \"on demand\" content, online movie and television content providers (both legal such as iTunes and illegal (pirated)), ad-supported services such as YouTube and DVD rentals and sales.  Viewers also commit viewing dollars to theatrical films, live events or other leisure activities. Our ability to attract and retain subscribers to WWE Network will depend in part on our ability to provide consistent high quality content and a high level of service that is perceived as a good value for the consumer's entertainment dollars. We face intense competition with respect to service levels, content offerings, pricing and related features, which may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain these subscribers. In addition, subscribers are allowed to cancel their subscriptions at any time and could do so for a number of reasons, including a perception that they do not use the service sufficiently, the need to cut household expenses, unsatisfactory content (whether as a result of change in consumer tastes or otherwise), competitive. 10. Table of Contents. entertainment at a lower price and customer service issues. This is commonly referred to as \"churn.\" Churn may be more pronounced in the periods following larger WWE events shown on WWE Network such as WrestleMania. We will need to add new subscribers continually both to replace subscribers who cancel and to grow our business. If too many of our subscribers cancel our service or if we are unable to attract new subscribers in sufficient numbers, our financial outlook, liquidity, business and operating results would be adversely affected.. Significant Ongoing Costs.  WWE Network has and will continue to require significant capital expenditures, content cost (which is sometimes capitalized) and operating costs. Capital expenditures result in increased amortization and depreciation and may require impairment charges if the assets do not provide adequate results. We also intend to continue spending significant amounts on marketing, including promotional offerings to attract, retain and renew subscribers.  Any and all such capital and operating costs, if not more than offset by revenues from WWE Network, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. Emerging Business.  We believe that we entered the market for subscription digital streaming at a relatively early stage. We believe acceptance of this type of service is growing among users, that our fans are technologically sophisticated and that the market is not saturated. We could, however, find that we are unable to remain competitive in this emerging industry for any number of reasons.  For instance, other new or more established players, many of whom have greater resources than we, could establish dominant positions in the market for this type of service. We could find that the growing number of offerings to consumers could limit subscribers for WWE Network due to market saturation. Alternatively, we could find that consumers choose to move away from subscription services generally. Under any of these scenarios, our ability to attract and retain subscribers will be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. Reliance on Partners to Offer WWE Network.  We offer subscribers the ability to receive streaming content through their PCs, Macs and other Internet-connected devices, including game consoles and mobile devices, such as tablets and mobile phones as well as smart televisions and Blu-Ray players. We intend to continue to offer WWE Network through available platforms and partners. We rely on BAMTech Media (\"BAMTech\"), an outside contractor, to develop and supply technology and infrastructure necessary to deliver our content and interact with the user. If we are not successful in maintaining or replacing our relationship with BAMTech or if we are not successful in entering into and maintaining relationships with platform providers, if the costs of maintaining these relationships increase materially, if we or our partners encounter technological, licensing or other impediments to streaming our content, or if viewers either upgrade existing platforms or migrate to new platforms in such a way that we or our partners do not or cannot deliver through the new or upgraded platform, our ability to compete successfully could be adversely impacted. Agreements with our platform providers are typically relatively short term in duration and our business could be adversely affected if, upon expiration, a partner does not continue to provide access to our service or is unwilling to do so on acceptable terms. Certain platforms, such as Amazon and Apple, offer their owned or licensed content as well as WWE Network and, therefore, may be disincentivized to promote and deliver WWE Network at the same level as provided for their content.. Possible Disruption of Systems Utilized in Our Operations.  Our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our subscribers will depend on the reliable performance of our computer systems and those of third-parties that we utilize in our operations. Interruptions in these systems, or with the Internet in general whether due to fault by any party or due to weather, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, power loss or other force majeure type events, could make our service unavailable or degraded or could otherwise hinder our ability to deliver content or cause WWE Network to fail completely. We do not maintain entirely redundant systems. These service disruptions or failures could be prolonged. Delivery of video programming over the Internet is done through a series of carriers with switch-overs between carriers, and any point of failure in this distribution chain would cause a disruption or degradation of our signal. Service disruption or degradation for any of the foregoing reasons could diminish the overall attractiveness of our subscription service to subscribers, causing us to lose subscribers and/or credit subscribers affected by such disruption. We do not carry insurance that would fully cover us in the event of most types of business interruptions that could occur at WWE Network.. Our servers and those of third parties used in the distribution of WWE Network may be vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions and could experience directed attacks intended to lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse, theft or release of proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable Company or subscriber data or information. Such a virus, break-in, disruption or attack could remain undetected for an extended period, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy, expose us to litigation and/or damage our reputation. Our insurance may not cover expenses related to such disruptions or unauthorized access fully or at all.. Technology Enhancements.  Enhancements and modifications to WWE Network technology from time to time become commercially necessary, and these consume considerable resources in capital and operating expenditures. If we are unable to acquire, maintain and enhance the technology to manage the streaming of content to our subscribers in a timely, efficient and user-friendly manner either through an outside party or ourselves, our ability to retain existing subscribers and to add new subscribers may be impaired. In addition, if our technology or that of third parties we utilize in our operations fails or otherwise operates improperly, our ability to attract and/or retain subscribers or add new subscribers may be impaired. Also, any harm to our subscribers' personal computers or other devices caused by software used in our operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We employ merchandising and search technology in WWE Network in an effort to maintain and increase member engagement. 11. Table of Contents. with our service. We may experience difficulties in implementing refinements or interfaces that our subscribers enjoy or require, which could cause member dissatisfaction and negatively impact our business.. Impact of Government Regulations.  The adoption or modification of laws and regulations relating to the Internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we conduct our business. The growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us. If we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur significant additional expense or alter our business model. In addition, the delivery of WWE Network in international markets exposes us to multiple regulatory frameworks and societal norms, the complexity of which may result in unintentional noncompliances which could adversely affect our business and operating results.. The adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the Internet to access our programming, including laws and/or court decisions that have the effect of limiting Internet neutrality, could limit the demand for our subscription service and increase our cost of doing business. The FCC had adopted an \"Open Internet\" Report and Order and accompanying rules, which addressed various practices of broadband Internet access providers. Those rules, in substantial part, were recently reversed by the FCC \"Restoring Internet Freedom\" Declaration Ruling, Report and Order, replaced by what the FCC refers to as a \"light-touch regulatory framework,\" including modified customer transparency requirements. Numerous parties have indicated they will seek judicial review of the FCC's rulings, and a number of states have already filed a petition for a review with the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. No assurances can be given as to the outcome of such challenges. To the extent that network operators engage in discriminatory practices, our business could be adversely impacted. As we expand internationally, government regulation concerning the Internet, and in particular, net neutrality, may be nascent or non-existent. Within such a regulatory environment, due to the political and economic power of local network operators, who may have interests that do not align with ours, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise negatively affect our business.. Risks Relating to the Internet.  We rely on the ability of WWE subscribers to access our service through the Internet. Any point of failure within the Internet infrastructure, whether caused by network hackers, force majeure type events or otherwise, could have a significant adverse effect on WWE Network. In addition, devices for accessing our content are manufactured and sold by entities other than the Company, and any transmission issues through these devices may result in consumer dissatisfaction with WWE Network and adversely affect our business. Technology changes may require that platforms and/or subscribers update their devices and any failure to do so, or the failure of us or our distribution partners to perform adequately through these updated devices could negatively affect our subscribers' enjoyment of WWE Network which would negatively affect our business. To the extent that network operators implement usage based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks by data providers (such as through tiered access or pricing), due to the heavy bandwidth use of audio/visual content, we could incur greater operating expenses and our subscriber acquisition costs, and subscriber numbers could be negatively impacted.  Most network operators that provide consumers access to the Internet also provide consumers audiovisual programming. As a result, these companies have an incentive to use their network infrastructure in a manner adverse to our success. With the reversal of the FCC's Open Internet Report and Order discussed above, to the extent network operators are able to provide preferential treatment to their traffic or otherwise implement discriminatory network management practices, WWE Network could be negatively impacted and it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. In international markets, these same incentives apply and consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition may not be as strong of a check on these practices as they are in domestic markets.. We Are Subject to Intellectual Property Risks.  From time to time, third parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. In connection with WWE Network, if we and/or our service providers are unable to obtain sufficient rights, successfully defend the use, or otherwise alter business practices in a timely manner in response to claims for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third-party intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected. Many companies devote significant resources on patents relating to various aspects of streaming services. For example, there are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the Internet and we and/or our service providers have from time to time been named in lawsuits and other claims alleging violations of patents in connection with various aspects of our business. We have not searched patents relative to our technology. While we believe we have managed this process successfully to date, defending against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit, can result in costly litigation and diversion of personnel. These types of claims could result in our inability to use technology as currently configured for WWE Network or as we configure it in the future and could significantly impact our operation and monetization of the service. As a result of this type of dispute, we and/or our service providers could also be required to develop non-infringing technology, make royalty or damage payments, enter licensing agreements, adjust merchandising or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims, any of which could be costly or unavailable on acceptable terms.. International Offerings.  We have made our U.S. based WWE Network available in international markets other than embargoed countries.  We are not currently offering different content in different countries internationally and we may find that our United States product does not resonate with consumers in other nations. International expansion also entails greater infrastructure and differing legal and regulatory environments. Other risks relating to foreign operations could include difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, management distraction, new and different sources of competition, compliance with U.S. and international. 12. Table of Contents. laws relating, among other things, to bribery, less favorable foreign intellectual property laws, laws relating to repatriation of funds, lower levels of Internet availability, complexity of VAT and other local tax laws, and data protection (including the new European Union General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which becomes effective May 25, 2018), consumer protection, censorship, licensing and other regulatory matters. If we are not able to manage the growing complexity of our international operations, our business could be adversely affected.. Marketing Efforts May Not Be Successful.  We intend to continue to spend significant amounts on marketing, including promotional offerings and data analytics, to attract, retain and renew subscribers domestically and internationally. We generally provide a promotion of one month free access to WWE Network for new subscribers.  If companies we use to promote WWE Network believe that we could negatively impact their business, decide that they want to enter similar businesses or wish to support our competitors, we may not be given access to suitable marketing channels. We may decide not to use certain marketing sources or activities if they are, or are perceived by us to be, ineffective. If adequate marketing channels are not available or are too costly, for any reason, our ability to attract new subscribers, and/or our operating costs, may be adversely affected.. We May Be Liable for Fraudulent Payment Transactions.  Even when the associated financial institution approves the payment of fees for WWE Network subscribers, from time to time, fraudulent payment methods are used to obtain the service. We do not carry insurance for these fraudulent transactions.. If We  Are Not Able to Manage Change and Growth, Our Business Could Be Adversely Affected.  We are expanding our operations internationally and scaling our streaming service to enable anticipated growth in both subscribers and features related to our service.  Internationally, we are also subject to divergent and complex consumer customs and practices. This growth adds complexity to virtually every aspect of our business, including WWE Network, and if we are not able to manage this growing complexity, including improving, refining or revising our systems and operational practices, business may be adversely affected.. Our failure to continue to build and maintain our brand of entertainment could adversely affect our operating results.. We must continue to build and maintain our strong brand identity to attract and retain fans who have a number of entertainment choices. The creation, marketing and distribution of live events, programming, (including our television, WWE Network and other programming) and films, that our fans value and enjoy is at the core of our business. The production of compelling live, televised, streamed and film content is critical to our ability to generate revenues across our media platforms and product outlets. Also important are effective consumer communications, such as marketing, customer service and public relations. The role of social media by fans and by us is an increasingly important factor in our brand perception. If our efforts to create compelling services and goods and/or otherwise promote and maintain our brand, services and merchandise are not successful, our ability to attract and retain fans may be adversely affected. Such a result would likely lead to a decline in our television ratings, attendance at our live events, the number of WWE Network subscribers, our film viewership and/or otherwise impact our sales of goods and services, which would adversely affect our operating results.. Our failure to retain or continue to recruit key performers could lead to a decline in the appeal of our storylines and the popularity of our brand of entertainment, which could adversely affect our operating results.. Our success depends, in large part, upon our ability to recruit, train and retain athletic performers who have the physical presence, acting ability and charisma to portray characters in our live events, video programming (including our television, WWE Network and other programming) and films. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to identify and train these performers. Additionally, throughout our history, performers from time to time have stopped working for us for any number of reasons, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain our current performers either during the terms of their contracts or when their contracts expire. Our failure to attract and retain key performers, an increase in the costs required to attract and retain such performers, or a serious or untimely injury to, or the death of, or unexpected or premature loss or retirement for any reason of, any of our key performers could lead to a decline in the appeal of our storylines and the popularity of our brand of entertainment.  Scheduling conflicts for talent services may also affect certain productions. Any of the foregoing issues could adversely affect our operating results.. A decline in the popularity of our brand of sports entertainment, including as a result of changes in the social and political climate, could adversely affect our business.. Our operations are affected by consumer tastes and entertainment trends, which are unpredictable and subject to change and may be affected by changes in the social and political climate. Our programming is created to evoke a passionate response from our fans. Changes in our fans' tastes or a material change in the perceptions of our business partners, including our distributors, sponsors and licensees, whether as a result of the social and political climate or otherwise, could adversely affect our operating results.. 13. Table of Contents. The unexpected loss of the services of Vincent K. McMahon could adversely affect our ability to create popular characters and creative storylines or could otherwise adversely affect our operating results.. In addition to serving as Chairman of our Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. McMahon leads the creative team that develops the storylines and the characters for our programming (including our television, WWE Network and other programming) and live events.  From time to time, Mr. McMahon has also been an important member of our cast of performers. The loss of Mr. McMahon due to unexpected retirement, disability, death or other unexpected termination for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our ability to create popular characters and creative storylines or could otherwise adversely affect our operating results. Mr. McMahon has recently announced that he established Alpha Entertainment LLC, to explore investment opportunities across the sports entertainment landscapes, and Alpha Entertainment LLC has announced plans to launch a professional football league. While he has provided the Company assurances that his focus on WWE will not be diverted by these efforts, any such diversion or perception of such diversion could adversely affect our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.. Changes in the regulatory atmosphere and related private sector initiatives could adversely affect our businesses.. Production of video programming by independent producers is generally not directly regulated by the federal or state governments in the United States. However, under FCC regulations in many instances we are responsible for closed captioning our television and internet programming and any failure to remain in compliance with these regulations could expose us to substantial costs and adverse publicity. The markets for programming (including television and WWE Network programming) in the United States and internationally may be substantially affected by government regulations applicable to, as well as social and political influences on, television stations and networks. We voluntarily designate the suitability of each of our television and WWE Network programs using standard industry ratings. Domestic and foreign governmental and private-sector initiatives relating to video programming are announced from time to time. Any failure by us to meet these governmental policies and/or private-sector expectations could restrict our program content and adversely affect our levels of viewership and/or the number of WWE Network subscribers, result in adverse publicity and/or impact our operating results.. The markets in which we operate are intensely competitive, rapidly changing and increasingly fragmented, and we may not be able to compete effectively, especially against competitors with greater financial resources or marketplace presence, which could adversely affect our operating results.. We face competition for our audiences from professional and college sports, as well as other forms of live and televised, streamed and filmed entertainment and other leisure activities in a rapidly changing and increasingly fragmented marketplace. The manner in which audio/video content is distributed and viewed is constantly changing. Changes in technology require Company resources including personnel, capital and operating expenses. Conversely, technology changes have also decreased the cost of video production and distribution for certain programmers (such as through social media), which lowers the barriers to entry and increases the competition for viewership and revenues. While we attempt to distribute our programming across all platforms, our failure to continue to do so effectively (including, for example only, our emphasizing a distribution platform that in time lessens in importance or becomes obsolete or our loss of, or other inability to procure, carriage on an important platform) could adversely affect our operating results. If other providers of video programming address the changes in consumer viewing habits in a manner that is better able to meet content distributor and consumer needs and expectations, our business could be adversely affected.  For the sale of our consumer products, we compete with entertainment companies, professional and college sports leagues and other makers of branded apparel and merchandise. Many of the companies with whom we compete have substantially greater financial resources than we do.  Our failure to compete effectively could result in a significant loss of viewers, subscribers, venues, distribution channels or performers and fewer entertainment and advertising dollars spent on our form of sports entertainment, any of which could adversely affect our operating results.. We face uncertainties associated with international markets, which could adversely affect our operating results and impair our business strategy.. We are consistently negotiating and entering into new agreements and renewals and extensions of existing agreements for our products and services in international markets. In late 2014, we began making available our U.S. based WWE Network in international markets. Cultural norms and regulatory frameworks vary in the markets in which we operate and our products' nonconformance to local norms or applicable law, regulations or licensing requirements could interrupt our operations or affect our sales, viewership and success in the markets. Our production of live events overseas subjects us to numerous risks involved in foreign travel and operations and also subjects us to local norms and complex regulations  (including visa obligations). In addition, these live events and the licensing and/or sale of our goods and services in international markets expose us to some degree of currency risk. International operations may be subject to political instability inherent in varying degrees in those markets. Other risks relating to foreign operations include difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, management distraction, new and different sources of competition, compliance with U.S. and international laws relating to, among other things, bribery, less favorable foreign intellectual property laws, laws relating to repatriation of funds, lower levels of Internet availability, complexity of VAT and other local tax laws, and data protection, consumer protection, censorship, licensing and other regulatory matters. The GDPR, which becomes effective May 25, 2018 will apply to certain of our operations. The GDPR's provisions are far reaching and noncompliance could result in significant fines,. 14. Table of Contents. operational issues and/or harm to reputation. While we have committed significant financial and personnel resources toward the planning and initial implementation phases, no assurances can be provided that our efforts will be entirely successful. These risks could adversely affect our operating results and impair our ability to pursue our business strategy as it relates to international markets, which could adversely affect our business.. We may be prohibited from promoting and conducting our live events if we do not comply with applicable regulations, which could lead to a decline in the various revenue streams generated from our live events, which could adversely affect our operating results.. In some United States and foreign jurisdictions, athletic commissions and other applicable regulatory agencies require us to obtain licenses for promoters, medical clearances and/or other permits or licenses for performers and/or permits for events in order for us to promote and conduct our live events. Foreign jurisdictions require visas for personnel and talent at international live events. In international markets, third party promoters generally oversee permitting and regulatory matters. In the event that we fail to comply with the regulations of a particular jurisdiction, whether through our acts or omissions or those of our third party promoters, we may be prohibited from promoting and conducting our live events in that jurisdiction. The inability to present our live events in jurisdiction(s), in addition to the lost revenues and expenses of the missed event(s), could lead to a decline in various revenue streams in such jurisdiction(s), which could adversely affect our operating results.. Because we depend upon our intellectual property rights, our inability to protect those rights, or our infringement of others' intellectual property rights, could adversely affect our business.. Intellectual property is material to all aspects of our business. We have a large portfolio of registered and unregistered trademarks, service marks, copyrighted material and characters, trade names and other intellectual property rights worldwide. We also own a large number of Internet website domain names and operate a network of developed, content-based sites, which facilitate and contribute to the exploitation of our intellectual property worldwide. We expend substantial cost and effort in an attempt to maintain and protect this intellectual property and to maintain compliance with other parties' intellectual property. Our failure to curtail piracy, infringement or other unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights effectively, or our infringement of others' intellectual property rights, could result in litigation, damage our brand or adversely affect our relationships with the companies that distribute our goods and services, any or which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. While we generally own the intellectual property in our content, we generally do not own any intellectual property relating to the distribution of this content including through WWE Network. From time to time, third parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. If we are unable to obtain sufficient rights, successfully defend our use, develop non-infringing technology or otherwise alter our business practices in a timely manner in response to claims against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third-party intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. Many companies devote significant resources on patents relating to many aspects of our business including WWE Network. For example, there are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the Internet, and from time to time we have been named in lawsuits and other claims alleging that we violated patents in connection with various aspects of our business. We have not searched patents relative to our technology. While we believe we have managed this process effectively to date, defending ourselves against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit can result in costly litigation and diversion of personnel. These type of claims could result in our inability to use our technology as currently configured or as we configure it in the future and could significantly impact our ability to market our services or merchandise our products. As a result of this type of dispute, we could also be required to develop non-infringing technology, make royalty or damage payments, enter into licensing agreements, adjust our merchandising or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims, any of which could be costly or unavailable on acceptable terms.. Our distribution mechanisms for our goods and services are increasingly complex across various distribution platforms, various geographical areas and timing windows.. Our inadvertent grant of inconsistent rights to our intellectual property, goods and/or services or allegations of such inconsistent grants could result in claims of breach of our distribution agreements or licenses and/or result in litigation which could adversely impact our operations.. We could incur substantial liability in the event of accidents or injuries occurring during our physically demanding events.. We hold numerous live events each year. This schedule exposes our performers and our employees who are involved in the production of those events to the risk of travel and performance-related accidents, the consequences of which are not fully covered by insurance. The physical nature of our events exposes our performers to the risk of serious injury or death. Although our performers, as independent contractors, are responsible for maintaining their own health, disability and life insurance, we self-insure medical costs for our performers for injuries that they incur while performing. We also self-insure a substantial portion of any other liability that we could incur relating to such injuries. Liability to us resulting from any death or serious injury sustained by one of our performers while performing, to the extent not covered by our insurance, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. 15. Table of Contents. As noted below, we are the defendant in litigation claiming that professional wrestling as currently and historically performed by us has resulted in significant injuries to our performers including, but not limited to, chronic traumatic encephalopathy or \"CTE\".. Our live events entail other risks inherent in public live events, which could lead to disruptions of our business as well as liability to other parties, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. We hold numerous large live events each year, both domestically and internationally. Certain risks are inherent in events of the type we perform as well as the travel to and from them, and we are required to expend substantial resources on safety matters such as security. Risks of travel and large live events include air and land travel interruption or accidents, the spread of illness, injuries resulting from building problems, pyrotechnics or other equipment malfunction, terrorism or other violence, local labor strikes and other force majeure type events. These issues could result in personal injuries or deaths, canceled events and other disruptions to our business for which our business interruption insurance may be insufficient. Any of these occurrences also could result in liability to other parties for which we may not have insurance. Any of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations.. We continue to face certain risks relating to our feature film business, which could result in higher production costs and asset impairment charges, which could adversely affect our financial condition or our results of operations.. We have substantial capitalized film costs. The accounting for our film business in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles entails significant judgment used to develop estimates of expected future revenues from films. If expected revenue from one or more of our films does not materialize because audience demand does not meet expectations, our estimated revenues may not be sufficient to recoup our investment in the film. If actual revenues are lower than our estimated revenues or if costs are higher than expected, we may be required to record an impairment charge and write down the capitalized costs of the film.  No assurance can be given that we will not record additional impairment charges in future periods. In addition, capitalized film costs are reflected net of certain production tax incentives granted by various governmental authorities. Our ability to realize these credits may be limited by changes in the laws and regulations relating to the incentives and/or the economic environment. The inability to realize these credits would have the effect of increasing our overall production costs.. In addition to the risks noted above relating to WWE Network, we could face a variety of risks if we expand into other new and complementary businesses and/or make certain investments or acquisitions.. We have entered into new or complementary businesses and made equity and debt investments in other companies in the past and plan to continue to do so in the future. We may also enter into business combination transactions, make acquisitions or enter into strategic partnerships, joint ventures or alliances. Risks of this expansion and/or these investments and transactions may include, among other risks: potential diversion of management's attention and other resources, including available cash, from our existing businesses; unanticipated liabilities or contingencies; reduced earnings due to increased amortization; loss on investments due to poor performance by the business invested in; inability to successfully integrate a new business; revaluations of debt and equity investments as well as market, credit and interest-rate risks (any of which could result in  impairment charges and other costs); competition from other companies with more experience in such businesses; and possible additional regulatory requirements and compliance costs which could affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. We face various risks relating to our computer systems and online operations, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition or our results of operations.. The Company faces the risk of a security breach or disruption, whether through external cyber intrusion or from persons with access to systems inside our organization. The Company commits significant personnel and financial resources to maintain the security of its computer systems, including implementing various measures to monitor and manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, and to plan for the mitigation of losses if such breach or disruption were to occur. There can be no assurance that these security efforts will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging or that the Company would be promptly aware of them or able to mitigate damages from them, if any such breach or disruption were to occur. The Company also utilizes third party service providers in several aspects of its operations (including WWE Network), and these third parties are also subject to risks of security breach or disruption. The Company is not able to assure the effectiveness of security among our service providers. The Company and certain of its third party service providers receive personal information through web services including WWE Network. In many instances this information is subject to the Company's privacy policies. Personal information received by our service providers includes credit card information in certain instances, most notably WWE Network, our live event merchandise sales and WWEShop, the Company's internet retail operations. The Company expends significant effort to ensure compliance with its privacy policy and to ensure that our service providers safeguard credit card information including contractually requiring those providers to remain compliant with applicable PCI Data Security Standards. However, a significant security breach or other disruption involving the computer systems of the Company or one or more of its service providers could disrupt the proper functioning of these systems and therefore the Company's  operations (for which we likely will not carry sufficient insurance); result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information; require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that could result (if, in fact, they can be remedied), and subject. 16. Table of Contents. the Company to litigation or damage to its reputation. Implementation of the GDPR may enhance this risk. Any or all of these could have a negative impact on our financial condition or results of operations.. Our businesses entail certain risks relating to privacy norms and regulations.. We and our partners collect certain data supplied by our fans including WWE Network subscribers. We utilize this data in certain ways including our marketing efforts. We face complex legal obligations domestically and internationally regarding the manner in which we treat and use such information, including, without limitation, the GDPR, which will become effective May 25, 2018.  Certain of these legal obligations, including the GDPR, carry substantial monetary penalties if breached. Unintentional noncompliance by us or our partners of these regulations could have an adverse effect on our business. If we were to disclose or use data about our fans in a manner that is objectionable to them or is contrary to applicable law, our business reputation could be adversely affected. We could also face potential legal claims that could impact our operating results.. A decline in general economic conditions or disruption of financial markets may, among other things, reduce the discretionary income of consumers or erode advertising markets, which could adversely affect our business.. Our operations are affected by general economic conditions, including consumers' disposable income, which has a direct material impact on the demand for entertainment and leisure activities. Declines in general economic conditions could reduce the level of discretionary income that our fans and potential fans have to spend on our live events, programming (including WWE Network), films and consumer products, which could adversely affect our revenues. Volatility and disruption of financial markets could limit the ability of our sponsors, licensees and distributors to obtain adequate financing to maintain operations and result in a decrease in sales volume that could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our television partners derive revenues from the sale of advertising. We also sell advertising directly on our website, on WWE Network and, depending upon the distribution methods used to monetize additional content, we may have additional advertising to sell. We sell sponsorship packages to our live events and certain other of our services. Softness in the advertising markets due to a weak economic environment or otherwise, could adversely affect our revenues or the financial viability of our distributors.. Our accounts receivable represent a significant portion of our current assets and relate principally to a limited number of distributors and licensees, increasing our exposure to bad debts which could potentially have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Substantial portions of our accounts receivable are from distributors for WWE Network, pay-per-view, television and home video programming and from licensees who produce consumer products containing our intellectual property. The concentration of our accounts receivable across a limited number of distributors and licensees subjects us to individual credit risk with respect to these parties who could become insolvent or declare bankruptcy, rendering collection impossible. Certain of the parties are located overseas which can make collections more difficult and, at times, economically unfeasible. Additionally, adverse changes in general economic conditions and/or contraction in global credit markets could precipitate liquidity problems among our debtors, including our key distributors and/or licensees. This could increase our exposure to losses from bad debts and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Servicing our debt will require a significant amount of cash, and we could have insufficient cash flow from operations or lack of access to sources of financing to meet these obligations and/or our other liquidity needs.. Our total consolidated debt, including the $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.375% convertible senior notes due 2023 that the Company issued in a private offering in December 2016 (the \"Convertible Notes\"), is significant. In January 2017, pursuant to the exercise of an over-allotment option, an additional $15.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Notes was issued. We also have availability under our $100.0 million revolving credit facility (the \"Revolving Credit Facility\"). Through certain of our subsidiaries, the Company also has in place a term loan secured by the Company's jet and a real estate mortgage in the principal amount of $23.0 million secured by the related real estate (the \"Asset-Backed Facilities\").. We believe we have sufficient liquidity for at least the next twelve months for our needs (including the payment of our dividend). However, our ability to make scheduled principal and interest payments on the Convertible Notes and under the Revolving Credit Facility, the Asset-Backed Facilities and any other indebtedness that may be outstanding at the time will depend on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control, including the items described elsewhere in these Risk Factors. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and provide for all our other uses of cash including capital and operating expenditures and paying our dividend. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, we could be required to adopt one or more alternatives which, assuming they are, in fact, available, could be onerous, dilutive or otherwise affect our operations and/or the market price of our Common Stock. Such alternatives could include, for example, substantially reducing our cost structure, selling assets, reducing or eliminating our dividend, obtaining additional equity capital and/or refinancing/replacing the indebtedness. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities on desirable terms or at all due to our then existing financial condition, market conditions, regulatory matters or contractual obligations (including, for example, any restrictions under our Revolving Credit Facility or other credit agreement or debt instruments that may exist at that time).. 17. Table of Contents. Any failure to make a required payment under our indebtedness may constitute a default under that indebtedness and under other indebtedness due to cross-default provisions and could trigger acceleration clauses causing the obligations to become immediately due and payable. The occurrence of one or more of these risks could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the Convertible Notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results.. Under ASC 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (such as the Convertible Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the Convertible Notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders' equity on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the Convertible Notes. As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the Convertible Notes to their face amount over the term of the Convertible Notes. We will report lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current period's amortization of the debt discount and the instrument's coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the Convertible Notes.. In addition, under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the Convertible Notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the Convertible Notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. We cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, then our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected. Conversion of our Convertible Notes and the exercise of related Warrants may cause economic dilution to our stockholders and dilution to our earnings per share.. We could incur substantial liabilities if litigation is resolved unfavorably.. The Company has been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging, among other things, that performers received traumatic brain injuries while performing for the Company and may have CTE. One such suit also alleges that the Company misclassified its talent as independent contractors rather than employees. The Company strongly disputes the merit of this type of case and moved to dismiss the lawsuits, which were consolidated for most purposes. Several of the claims have been dismissed, and the Company has moved to dismiss or for summary judgment on all remaining claims. If our current dispositive motions are not granted, or if any dismissals are reversed on appeal (once an appeal can be taken), the Company plans to continue to defend itself vigorously (including, if necessary, opposing class certification in the two cases filed as putative class actions).  In the ordinary course of business we become subject to various other complaints and litigation matters.. By its nature, the outcome of litigation is difficult to assess and quantify, and its continuing defense is costly. Any adverse judgment or settlement could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The final impacts of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could be materially different from our current assessment.. <U+FEFF>. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Act\"), which was signed into law on December 22, 2017, makes significant changes to the taxation of U.S. business entities. These changes include a permanent reduction to the federal corporate income tax rate.  The Tax Act required a remeasurement of our deferred tax asset and a recognition of $11.3 million of expense in the fourth quarter of 2017.  The Tax Act is expected to have a favorable impact on our effective tax rate and net income as reported under generally accepted accounting principles both in the first fiscal quarter of 2018 and subsequent reporting periods.  However, we are still assessing the impact of the Tax Act and there can be no assurances that it will have a favorable impact.  In addition, any future federal or state law tax changes, whether arising from actual or perceived loss of tax revenue to the taxing authority due to the Tax Act or otherwise, could materially and adversely impact our results from operations.. Failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance could adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock.. We believe that the price of our stock generally reflects certain market expectations for our future operating results, including expectations for a substantial improvement in operating results due, in whole or in part, to the upcoming domestic television negotiation. Any failure to meet or delay in meeting these expectations, including as a result of the domestic television negotiation, the failure of. 18. Table of Contents. WWE Network to achieve expected subscriber numbers or as a result of any other events, conditions and/or circumstances set forth in these Risk Factors could cause the market price of our stock to decline significantly.. Through his beneficial ownership of a majority of our Class B common stock, Mr. McMahon can exercise control over our affairs, and his interests may conflict with the holders of our Class A common stock.. We have Class A common stock and Class B common stock. The holders of Class A common stock generally have rights identical to holders of Class B common stock, except that holders of Class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share, and holders of Class B common stock are entitled to ten votes per share. Holders of both classes of common stock generally will vote together as a single class on all matters presented to stockholders for their vote or approval, except as otherwise required by applicable Delaware law.. A substantial majority of the issued and outstanding shares of Class B common stock is owned beneficially by Vincent K. McMahon and, as a result, he controls a majority of the voting power of our common stock and can effectively exercise control over our affairs. His interest could conflict with the holders of our Class A common stock. McMahon's voting control could discourage or preclude others from initiating potential mergers, takeovers or other change of control transactions. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline.. Our dividend is significant and is affected by a number of factors.. Our Board of Directors regularly evaluates the Company's Common Stock dividend policy and determines the dividend rate each quarter. The level of dividends, if any, will continue to be influenced by many factors, including, among other things, our liquidity and historical and projected cash flow, our strategic plan (including alternative uses of capital), our financial results and condition, contractual and legal restrictions on the payment of dividends (including under our revolving credit facility), general economic and competitive conditions and such other factors as our Board of Directors may consider relevant from time to time. All of these factors are subject to the various contingencies listed in the other Risk Factors included in this Form 10-K. We cannot assure our stockholders that dividends will be paid in the future, or that, if paid, dividends will be at the same amount or with the same frequency as in the past. Any reduction in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price.. The Company's dividend distributions have in recent years represented a return of capital for tax purposes, and shareholders as a result will recognize an increased capital gain upon a subsequent sale of the Company's Common Stock.. The Company's aggregate dividend distributions paid in 2014 and 2013 were in excess of its current and accumulated earnings and profits calculated under applicable Internal Revenue Code (\"IRC\") provisions. This may be the case for 2018, as well, due to the recently enacted federal tax law changes. Under the IRC, distributions in excess of both the Company's current earnings and profits and the Company's accumulated earnings and profits constitute a return of capital and reduce the stockholder's adjusted tax basis in its Common Stock. If a stockholder's adjusted basis in its Common Stock is reduced to zero, these excess distributions thereafter constitute a capital gain to the stockholder.. A substantial number of shares are eligible for sale by Mr. McMahon and members of his family or trusts established for their benefit, and the sale of those shares could lower our stock price.. All of the issued and outstanding shares of Class B common stock are held by Vincent McMahon and other members of his family including certain trusts set up for family members. Sales of substantial amounts of these shares, or the perception that such sales could occur, may lower the prevailing market price of our Class A common stock. If any sales or transfers of Class B common stock are made to persons outside of the McMahon family, the shares automatically convert into Class A common stock.. Our Class A common stock is volatile and has a relatively small public \"float.\". The price at which our common stock has traded has fluctuated significantly, especially in the past two years.  The price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors beyond our direct control, including our number of WWE Network subscribers, operating results (especially where different from the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community), market volatility in general and short interest in our stock. Given the dynamic nature of our business and all other factors that limit the predictability of the future, any of our forecasts, outlook or other forward-looking statements could differ materially from actual results which could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock.. Historically, as a result of our relatively small public float, our Class A common stock has been less liquid than the common stock of companies with broader public ownership, and the trading prices for our Class A common stock have been more volatile than generally may be the case for more widely-held common stock. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of our Class A common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price of our Class A common stock than would be the case if our public float were larger.. 19. Table of Contents"
