[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. In addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in connection with your investment in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting our financial condition and results of operations, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Our operating results may fluctuate, are difficult to predict and could fall below expectations.. Our operating and financial results have fluctuated significantly on a quarterly basis during our operating history and may continue to fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include:. • the level of online usage and traffic on our digital properties;. • the addition or loss of advertisers;. • the advertising budgeting cycles of specific advertisers;. • the willingness and ability of our consumers and vendors to transact on our properties;. • the regional and national magazines' publishing cycles;. • the amount and timing of capital expenditures and other costs relating to the expansion of our operations, including those related to acquisitions;. • the introduction of new sites and services by us or our competitors;. • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; and. • general economic conditions, as well as economic conditions specific to the Internet, online and offline media and transactions.. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet rapidly changing advertiser, vendor and consumer demands for content, products and user engagement in a timely manner, if at all, even if we are successful in enhancing and upgrading our digital properties (including our websites and mobile properties) in response to advances in technology and evolving preferences. If the number of visitors to our digital properties stagnates or declines, we may not be able to create or maintain sufficient advertiser or vendor interest in our digital platforms. Even if we are successful in driving consumer traffic to our digital properties, advertisers and vendors are sensitive to general economic conditions and reductions in consumer spending, among other events and trends, which could result in lower transactions revenue and reduced advertising expenditures, particularly from national advertisers. We cannot assure you that our current advertisers will fulfill their obligations under existing contracts, continue to advertise beyond the terms of existing contracts or enter into any additional contracts with us. Our advertising and other revenue could also decline as a result of pricing pressures on digital advertising rates due to industry developments, such as the fragmentation of digital media. If we are unable to effectively monetize our digital properties, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be materially and adversely affected.. Our ability to accurately measure and monetize the level of offline store level traffic attributable to an online digital campaign conducted on our sites.. Due to the foregoing or other factors, it is also possible that our results of operations in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of investors and/or securities analysts. We also experience some seasonal trends that may produce variations in quarterly results and financial conditions. To the extent there are significant fluctuations in our financial results, the trading price of our common stock could decline materially. In view of the rapidly evolving nature of our business, period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance.. Our business depends on strong brands, and failing to maintain and enhance our brands would hurt our business.. Our brands have contributed significantly to the success of our business. Building and maintaining the brand recognition of The Knot, The Bump, GigMasters, and our other brands is critical to attracting and expanding our base of online users and offline readership, advertisers, corporate customers and other partners, and increasing their engagement with our services, and will depend largely on our ability to maintain member trust, be a technology leader and continue to provide high-quality solutions, which we may not do successfully. Our brands may be negatively affected by a number of factors, including the reputation of our content. 6. Table of Contents. and products and our ability to adapt to technological changes. Despite our efforts to protect and prevent misuse of our brands, if others misuse our brands or pass themselves off as being endorsed or affiliated with us, it could harm our reputation, and our business could suffer. Our brands are also important in attracting and maintaining highly qualified employees. If we fail to build or maintain awareness of our brands, our business and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Our ongoing investment in new businesses and new products, services, and technologies is inherently risky, and could disrupt. our ongoing business and/or fail to generate the results we are expecting.. We have invested in, and expect to continue to invest in, new businesses, products, services and technologies. We cannot be certain that our products, services and digital properties will appeal to, and garner acceptance from, the public or our advertisers and other third-party partners. We expect to continue to increase our operating expense growth in excess of historic rates in the near future to launch new products or upgrade existing products. We may not be able to successfully leverage our audience share or brand positioning to create and maintain use of our new products and services. Moreover, even if new features and services prove to be commercially successful, they may reduce usage of our existing features and services. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue from new services and features to gain a return on our investments, or if our revenue from existing services declines as a direct result of a shift in consumer usage to new services, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. If we are unable to continue to develop solutions that generate revenue from advertising and other services delivered to mobile devices, our business could be harmed.. The number of people who access the internet through devices other than computers, including mobile phones, and handheld computers such as notebooks and tablets, and who use mobile payment and transaction services, has increased substantially in recent years and is expected to continue to grow. A significant and growing portion of users access our digital platforms through mobile devices. If we cannot continue to provide effective mobile platforms for advertising and other service solutions, we may be unable to attract new and retain existing customers for advertisers or other services. In addition, if we are unable to implement successful monetization strategies for mobile users, or if we incur excessive expenses in our effort to do so, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our businesses could be negatively affected by changes in Internet search engine and app store search algorithms and email marketing policies.. We depend in part on various Internet search engines and app store search engines to direct traffic to our websites and other properties. Similarly, we depend on high-traffic digital, social, and other properties, as distribution channels, to promote apps, our websites and properties. Our ability to maintain the number of potential customers directed to our websites and properties is not entirely within our control. For example, search engines and app stores often revise their algorithms in an attempt to improve the search results presented to their users. Our ability to influence the search engine and app stores rankings of our websites and properties, through our search engine optimization efforts or otherwise, is limited. In addition, we cannot assure you that distribution through high-traffic digital, social, and other properties will yield additional users or that such relationships will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms. Changes by Internet search engines in their algorithms, or changes to competitive dynamics that affect our distribution relationships in a negative manner, could cause our websites and properties to receive less user traffic. Fewer potential customers could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, email marketing policies and standards are evolving domestically and internationally. If we fail to prevent being blacklisted from major service providers, or if our emails are otherwise blocked by spam filters, we may be subject to significant loss of email marketing revenues and user traffic.. We face intense competition in our markets. If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users, we may not remain competitive, and our revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The Internet and mobile advertising markets, online markets and publishing markets in which our brands operate are intensely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. For example, our brands face competition for members, users, readers and advertisers from the following areas:. • stand-alone online services, websites, mobile apps or blogs targeted at brides and grooms, such as those offered by WeddingWire, Weddingbee, Honeybook, Zola, Thumbtack, and MyWedding.com, and at new parents, such as Johnson & Johnson's BabyCenter and others;. • online and brick and mortar retail stores, manufacturers and regional directories;. • wedding sub-domains, channels or niche sites of major online destinations or portals, such as Pinterest, Amazon, Google and AOL's Huffington Post and Style Me Pretty;. 7. Table of Contents. • bridal magazines and their online destinations, such as Condé Nast's Brides, and Sequential Brands Group's Martha Stewart Weddings;. • parenting magazines and their online destinations; and. • online and retail stores offering gift registries, especially from retailers offering specific gift registries.. Marketplaces compete in two-sided markets, and must attract both consumers and vendors in order to be successful. Consumers who might use our marketplaces to buy goods or services have a wide variety of alternatives, including traditional department, warehouse, boutique, discount and general merchandise stores (as well as the online and mobile operations of these traditional retailers), online retailers and their related mobile offerings, online and offline classified services and other shopping channels. In addition, consumers have a large number of online and offline channels focused on one or more of the categories of products and services offered on our sites. Consumers and vendors who might use our sites to sell goods or services also have many alternatives, including general online ecommerce sites, and more specialized sites, such as websites operated by bridal gown designers, wedding hall venues, destination wedding resorts, etc. Vendors who use our marketplace may also choose to sell their goods and services through other channels.. The principal competitive factors for marketplaces like ours include the following:. • ability to attract, retain and engage consumers and vendors, as well as maintain user engagement;. • volume of transactions and price and selection of products and services;. • trust in the vendor and the transaction;. • customer service (both that provided by us and that provided by the vendors in our marketplace);. • brand recognition;. • website, mobile platform and application ease-of-use and accessibility;. • system reliability;. • level of service fees; and. • ease of use and quality of search tools.. We expect competition to increase because of the business opportunities presented by the growth of the Internet and transaction-based marketplaces. Our competition may also intensify as a result of industry consolidation and a lack of substantial barriers to entry. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, greater name recognition and substantially larger user bases than we have and, therefore, have significant ability to attract advertisers, vendors and users. In addition, many of our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in digital user requirements, as well as devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion and sale of services.. We cannot assure you that our current or potential competitors will not develop services and products comparable or superior to those that we develop or adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies, evolving industry trends or changing Internet user preferences. Increased competition could result in price reductions, lower margins or loss of market share, any of which would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors.. Our transactions business is dependent on third-party participants, whose lack of performance could adversely affect our results of operations.. A growing portion of our revenue is from transactions. Our transactions revenue is dependent on third parties' participation in our transactions programs, and the success of those partners and vendors. We are dependent on our retail partners and local vendors to manage competitive pressures, and to the extent they are unable to do so, we may experience lower revenue, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Such businesses are also dependent on our partners keeping their respective websites and other digital properties operational, as well as on the visitors who use those sites. Any decline in traffic or technical difficulties experienced by these websites or mobile devices may negatively affect our results of operations.. The fulfillment and delivery of products purchased by customers are processed and delivered by our third-party partners. As a result, we are dependent on our partners to manage inventory, process orders and distribute products to our customers in a timely manner. We also rely on information provided by these partners to update and integrate information daily. If our partners experience problems with customer fulfillment or inventory management, or if we cannot integrate our processes with those of our partners, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed.. In addition, our partners are highly dependent on the health of the U.S. or foreign economies and many are further dependent on local economic conditions in the states or countries in which they primarily conduct their businesses. Deterioration in. 8. Table of Contents. macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence that negatively impacts our partners' businesses could result in lower revenue to our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Fraudulent or unlawful activities on our marketplace could harm our business, and could severely diminish consumer confidence in and use of our marketplace.. The law relating to the liability of marketplace operators is currently unsettled. We face risks with respect to fraudulent activities on our marketplace and periodically receive complaints from consumers who may not have received the goods or services that they had contracted to purchase. We may also incur losses from claims that the consumer did not authorize the purchase, from consumer fraud, from erroneous transmissions and from consumers who have closed bank accounts or have insufficient funds in them to satisfy payments they are obligated to make. Although we have implemented measures to detect and reduce the occurrence of fraudulent activities, combat bad consumer experiences and increase customer satisfaction, including evaluating vendors on the basis of their transaction history and restricting or suspending their activity where appropriate, we cannot assure you that these measures will be effective in combating fraudulent transactions or improving overall satisfaction among consumers and other participants. Additional measures to address fraud could negatively affect the attractiveness of our marketplace to consumers or vendors, resulting in a reduction in the ability to attract new consumers or vendors or retain current consumers or vendors, damage to our reputation, or a diminution in the value of our brand names. We also may be unable to prevent vendors on our marketplace from selling unlawful goods or services, or selling goods or services in an unlawful manner, and could face civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities by our vendors.. We may be subject to legal liability associated with providing online services or content.. We may be subject to claims for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, personal injury or other legal theories relating to the information we publish, display or distribute. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against online services, as well as other print publications in the past. We could also be subject to claims based upon the content that is accessible from our online sites through links to other online sites or through content and materials that may be posted by users in message bulletin boards, listings, wedding websites and other areas of the site. Our insurance, which covers commercial general liability, may not adequately protect us against these types of claims.. The laws that shield online service providers such as us from liability for the activities of users of their online services are often challenged in the United States and internationally. We may be unable to prevent users of our services from providing negligent, unlawful or inappropriate advice, information or content via our services, or from behaving in an unlawful manner, and we may be subject to allegations of civil or criminal liability for negligent, fraudulent, unlawful or inappropriate activities carried out by users of our services. Claims could be made against online services companies under both United States and foreign law such as fraud, defamation, libel, invasion of privacy, negligence, data breach, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated by users of our services. In addition, domestic and foreign legislation has been proposed that could prohibit or impose liability for the transmission over the Internet of certain types of information. Our defense of any of these actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources.. The listing or sale by our vendors of unlawful, counterfeit or stolen goods or unlawful services, or sale of goods or services in an unlawful manner, may result in allegations of civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities against us involving activities carried out by vendors through our marketplace. Allegations of infringement of intellectual property rights, including but not limited to counterfeit items, have resulted in threatened and actual litigation from time to time by rights owners against the operators of other marketplaces. Plaintiffs in these and similar suits seek, among other remedies, injunctive relief and damages. Statutory damages for copyright or trademark violations could range up to $150,000 per copyrighted work infringed and $2,000,000 per trademark violation (for use of a counterfeit mark) in the United States, and may be even higher in other jurisdictions.. If we become liable for information provided by our users and carried via our service in any jurisdiction in which we operate, we could be directly harmed and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability. In addition, the increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of these lawsuits and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or otherwise impact the growth of our business. Any costs incurred as a result of this potential liability could harm our business. In addition, negative publicity and user sentiment generated as a result of fraudulent or deceptive conduct by users of our services could damage our reputation, reduce our ability to attract new users or retain our current users, and diminish the value of our brand.. In the future, we may be required to spend substantial resources to take additional protective measures or discontinue certain service offerings, either of which could harm our business. Any costs incurred as a result of potential liability relating to the sale of unlawful services or the unlawful sale of services could harm our business.. 9. Table of Contents. Consumers may sue us if any of the products that our retail or other partners sell online or otherwise make available are defective, fail to perform properly or injure the user. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. As a result, any such claims, whether or not successful, could seriously damage our financial results, reputation and brand name.. We may be unable to continue to use the domain names that we use in our business, or prevent third parties from acquiring and using domain names that infringe on, are similar to, or otherwise decrease the value of our brand or our trademarks or service marks.. We have registered domain names for the websites that we use in our business, such as TheKnot.com, TheBump.com, and GigMasters.com. If we lose the ability to use a domain name, whether due to trademark claims, failure to renew the applicable registration or any other cause, we may be forced to market our products under a new domain name, which could cause us substantial harm or cause us to incur significant expense in order to purchase rights to the domain name in question. In addition, others could attempt to capitalize on our brand recognition by using domain names similar to ours. Domain names similar to ours have been registered by others in the United States and elsewhere. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring and using domain names that infringe on, are similar to or otherwise decrease the value of our brand or our trademarks or service marks. Protecting and enforcing our rights in our domain names may require litigation, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention.. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brands.. We rely on copyright, trademark, patent and other intellectual property laws to protect our rights in our proprietary technology, processes, designs, content and other intellectual property to the extent such protection is sought or secured at all. We also depend on trade secret protection through, among other things, confidentiality agreements and/or invention assignment agreements with our employees, licensees and others, as well as through license agreements with our licensees and other partners. We may not have agreements containing adequate protective provisions in every case, and the contractual provisions that are in place may not provide us with adequate protection in all circumstances. In addition, the steps we might otherwise take may not be adequate to protect against infringement and misappropriation of our intellectual property by third parties. As an example, we may be unable to secure patent or other intellectual property rights broad or strong enough to protect the underlying proprietary technology.. Intellectual property laws afford us only limited protection. The duration of the protection afforded to our intellectual property depends on the type of property in question, the laws and regulations of the relevant jurisdiction and the terms of our license agreements with others. A third party may be able to develop similar or superior technology, processes, content or other intellectual property independently. In addition, monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property, including our copyrights, trademarks, service marks and patents, is difficult. Third parties may register marks that are confusingly similar to the trademarks or services marks that we have used in the United States and our failure to monitor foreign registrations or mark usage may impact our rights in certain trademarks or services marks. Judicial decisions, legislation, and other patent and intellectual property reform efforts could also undermine the validity, scope, and enforceability of our patent and intellectual property holdings. The unauthorized reproduction or misappropriation of our intellectual property rights could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it, diminish the value of our brands, competitive advantages or goodwill and result in decreased sales. If this occurs, our business and prospects would be materially and adversely affected.. In addition, other parties may assert infringement claims against us or claim that we have violated a patent or infringed a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them, whether on our own or by virtue of our use of certain third-party technology. If we are subject to claims of infringement or are infringing the rights of third parties, we may not be able to obtain licenses to use those rights on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In that event, we might need to undertake substantial reengineering to continue our online offerings. Any effort to undertake such reengineering might not be successful, resulting in a failure to continue to provide our services or sell our products. Furthermore, a party making such a claim could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. An injunction or other court order could prevent us from operating products or our business.. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition, we have not obtained copyright and trademark protection for all of our proprietary technology, processes, content and brands in all of the countries where we sell our products or otherwise operate. This could leave us helpless to stop potential infringers or possibly even unable to sell our products or provide our services in certain territories.. Disputes concerning the ownership of our rights to use intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming to litigate, may distract management from other tasks of operating the business and may result in our loss of significant rights and the loss. 10. Table of Contents. of our ability to operate our business. Litigation has been and may continue to be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others.. System disruptions, failures, or breaches in of our systems or our third-party service providers, including those resulting from cyber-attacks, security vulnerabilities, defects or errors, natural disasters and acts of terrorism, could harm our business.. The continuing, uninterrupted and secure performance of our computer systems is critical to our success. While we continue to expand our focus on this issue and are taking safeguarding measures, we are vulnerable to the increasing risk of cyber-attacks and other security incidents, such as computer viruses, denial of service attacks, phishing attacks, electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Because the techniques used in cyber-attacks are becoming more sophisticated in ways that avoid detection, we or our service providers may not be able to anticipate, prevent, identify or adequately remediate such incidents. In addition, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, users, or our third-party service providers to disclose information in order to gain access to our data. A cyber-attack or other security incident involving our or our service providers' systems may result in unauthorized access, loss, or other compromise to, among other things, our data, including trade secrets, our customers' data, billing data such as credit or debit card information, and any other data that is confidential or subject to applicable domestic or foreign privacy or security laws or regulations. If we suffer a cyber-attack or other security incident due to third-party or employee conduct, or otherwise, we could be subject to lawsuits, regulatory investigations, increased costs associated with regulatory compliance and systems remediation, investigations and fines and assessments by payment card companies, harm to our brand and reputation, disruption in our ability to provide our services, any of which could reduce revenue, increase costs, and materially harm our business and results of operations. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover any claims by regulators or by dissatisfied advertisers or customers, or classes of them, and may not be adequate to indemnify us for any costs or liability that may be imposed on us as a result of any system disruptions, failures, cyber-attacks, security breaches or other compromise or to our ability to provide various services to our customers and users.. Our business operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from power losses, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, human errors, break-ins, earthquakes, fires, floods, and similar events. Any of these events could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, data and reputation, and our insurance coverage may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. In addition, acts of terrorism could cause disruptions in our business or the economy as a whole. Our principal executive offices are located in New York City, a region that has experienced acts of terrorism in the past. Our servers may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of critical data or the unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer data. Although we have disaster recovery capabilities, we cannot assure you that we will not suffer from business interruption as a result of any such events, and any such event could also result in large expenditures necessary to repair or replace such networks or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future. As we rely heavily on our servers, computer and communications systems and the Internet to conduct our business and provide high-quality service to our customers, such disruptions could negatively impact our ability to run our business, result in loss of existing or potential customers and increased maintenance costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Any of these events could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, data and reputation, and our insurance coverage may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur.. Privacy concerns relating to our technology could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our products and services.. We currently face a myriad of U.S. federal and state statutory and regulatory rules regarding the collection, use, transfer, and retention of personal information and other data privacy and security issues. These laws and regulations continue to be in a state of flux and are expanding. In addition, because our services are accessible worldwide, certain foreign jurisdictions may claim that we are required to comply with their laws, even if we don't have a local entity, employees or infrastructure. In general, foreign data protection, privacy, and other laws and regulations are more restrictive than those in the United States. As in the U.S., the substance and applicability of such laws in Europe and other foreign jurisdictions are subject to continued development and interpretation by agencies and courts. For example, the European Union and many countries within the European Union have adopted and are developing data privacy protection and security directives relating to the collection, use, storage and transfer of data that are more stringent than in the United States. In addition, the application, interpretation, and enforcement of these laws and regulations are often uncertain, particularly in our rapidly evolving industry, and may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and inconsistently with our current policies and practices.. The cost of compliance with any applicable laws could be material, and we may not be able to comply with them in a timely or cost-effective manner, if at all. Compliance with any applicable laws could also delay or impede the development of new products or services, result in negative publicity and damage to our brand an reputation, increase our operating costs, require. 11. Table of Contents. significant management time and attention, or subject us to inquiries or investigations, claims or other remedies, including fines or demands that we modify or cease existing business practices. In addition, changes to existing laws or the passage of new laws could create uncertainty in the marketplace that could reduce demand for our services or increase the cost of doing business as a result of litigation costs or increased service delivery costs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, privacy concerns in general may cause visitors to avoid online sites like ours that collect and use information, for purposes such as behavioral targeted advertising, and even the perception of privacy or security concerns, whether or not valid, may inhibit market acceptance of our services. In addition, if our privacy practices are deemed unacceptable by watchdog groups or privacy advocates, such groups may attempt to harm our business by blocking access to our sites or disparaging our reputation and our business and may have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may also be subject to claims of liability or responsibility for the actions of third parties with whom we interact or upon whom we rely in relation to various services, including but not limited to vendors and business partners. These third parties may be vulnerable to privacy violations, and threats, such as computer hacking, cyber-terrorism or other unauthorized attempts to access, modify or delete our or our customers' information or business assets that they service or maintain on our behalf. The foregoing could have a material effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. We are subject to payments-related risks.. We accept payments using a variety of methods, including credit card, debit card, credit accounts (including promotional financing), gift cards, direct debit from a customer's bank account, consumer invoicing, physical bank check, and payment upon delivery. As we offer new payment options to our customers, we may become subject to additional regulations and compliance requirements (including obligations to implement enhanced authentication processes that could result in significant costs and reduce the ease of use of our payments products), as well as fraud. If we were found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to additional requirements and civil and criminal penalties, or forced to cease providing certain services. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower profitability. We rely on third parties to provide certain payment methods and payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, electronic checks, and promotional financing. In each case, it could disrupt our business if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us.. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, including data security rules, certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, or if our data security systems are breached or compromised, we may be liable for card issuing banks' costs, subject to fines and higher transaction fees, and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, process electronic funds transfers, or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business, our reputation, our brand name, and our results of operations could be adversely affected.. We may rely on third-party license agreements for technology related to our products and services, and the failure to secure such agreements could delay or prevent us from being able to commercialize our products and services.. We might need to license third-party software to enhance our products and services and meet evolving customer requirements. These licenses may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Some of this technology could be difficult to replace once integrated. The loss of, or inability to obtain, these licenses could result in delays or reductions of our applications until we identify, license and integrate or develop equivalent software, and new licenses could require us to pay higher royalties. If we are unable to successfully license and integrate third-party technology, we could experience a reduction in functionality and/or errors or failures of our products or services, which may reduce demand for our products and services. Third-party licenses may expose us to increased risks, including risks associated with the integration of new technology, the impact of new technology integration on our existing technology, open source software conditions on use or disclosure, the diversion of resources from the development of our own proprietary technology, and our inability to generate revenue from new technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs.. We depend on our management team and other key personnel. Loss of any key member of that team may prevent us from executing our business plan in a timely manner.. Our success depends largely upon our ability to attract and retain executive officers and other key personnel, including senior creative, technical, operational and finance executives. If our management team, including any new-hires, fails to work together effectively and to execute our plans and strategies on a timely basis, or if we fail to successfully integrate newly hired executives or senior managers, or if we fail to attract, integrate or retain key personnel or other highly qualified employees, our business could be harmed. We cannot assure you that if we were to experience a high degree of management change in the future, we would be. 12. Table of Contents. able to replace departing members of management in a timely manner or successfully integrate newly-hired executives, managers or highly qualified personnel.. Our business could be adversely affected if we are not able to integrate any future acquisitions successfully or operate successfully under our strategic partnerships.. In the past, we have completed numerous acquisitions and investments in other companies, as well as strategic partnerships. In the future, we may acquire, or invest in, complementary companies, products or technologies or enter into new strategic partnerships. Acquisitions, investments and partnerships involve numerous risks, including:. •difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, products and personnel;. •diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations;. •operating under commercial agreements entered into by an acquisition target;. •risks of entering new markets;. •potential loss of key employees; and. •inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs.. To pay for an acquisition or to enter into a strategic alliance, we might use equity securities, debt, cash, or a combination of the foregoing. If we use equity securities, our existing stockholders may experience dilution. Any such acquisitions or strategic alliances may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all.. Impairment charges related to assets may have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. We have several investments and intangible assets that, depending upon competitive and economic conditions, could become impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In the past we have recorded charges against our earnings for amortization of intangibles with a definite life, as well as impairment charges on certain intangible assets with indefinite lives and investments, and we may be required to take other charges, including write-downs of significant amounts, in the future. Our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by such charges.. The ongoing effects of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") and the refinement of provisional estimates could make our results difficult to predict.. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate in the future as a result of the Tax Act, which was enacted on December 22, 2017. The Tax Act introduces significant changes to U.S. income tax law that will have a meaningful impact on our provision for income taxes. Accounting for the income tax effects of the Tax Act requires significant judgments and estimates in the interpretation and calculations of the provisions of the Tax Act.. Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017. The U.S. Treasury Department, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and other standard-setting bodies may issue guidance on how the provisions of the Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. As we collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret the Tax Act and any additional guidance issued by the IRS or other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts that could materially affect our financial position and results of operations as well as our effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made.. Our effective tax rate is subject to significant fluctuations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly and could be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in states where we have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in states where we have higher statutory tax rates. Our effective tax rate could also fluctuate due to changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. These fluctuations in our effective tax rate, including the impact of adverse outcomes from tax audits by domestic and foreign tax authorities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could, if not remediated, adversely impact the reliability of our financial reports.. 13. Table of Contents. Our business and stock price may be adversely affected if our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes - Oxley Act of 2002 and rules promulgated by the SEC, we are required to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting. To complete this evaluation, we are required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting; management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting; and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Even effective internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements.. In the course of the external audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2016, we identified a material weakness in our controls over national online advertising revenue recognition. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. A more complete description of the recently identified errors and the resulting material weakness is included in \"Part II. Item 9A. Controls and Procedures\" in this annual report on Form 10 - K. Although we have remediated this material weakness, we can provide no assurance that our remediation efforts will be effective or that additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future.. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, which could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, lead to a loss of investor confidence and have a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock.. We could face additional regulatory requirements, tax liabilities and other risks related to our continuing operations in China and Hong Kong, and other markets outside the United States where we may commence operations.. We have continuing operations in China and Hong Kong. There are risks related to doing business in international markets in general, such as:. • difficulties in staffing and managing our current and future foreign operations;. • challenges caused by language, cultural differences and by doing business with foreign agencies and governments;. • changes in regulatory requirements and uncertainty regarding liability for services and content, including data privacy and cybersecurity issues;. • tariffs and other trade barriers;. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and foreign exchange controls. • adverse tax consequences;. • stringent local labor laws and regulations; and. • political or social unrest or economic instability.. One or more of these factors could harm our current or future international operations.. In addition, compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business and could interfere with our ability to offer, or prevent us from offering, our products and services to one or more countries or expose us or our employees to fines and penalties. These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include import and export requirements, content requirements, trade restrictions, tax laws, sanctions, internal and disclosure control rules, data privacy and security requirements, restrictions on the collection and use of consumer data, labor relations laws, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to address these laws, we cannot assure you that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies or any applicable laws or regulations. Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services to one or more countries, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our ability to expand our international operations, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business, and our results of operations, and could expose us to lawsuits and regulatory investigations. In addition, we cannot predict whether duties, taxes, or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the U.S., Asia, or other countries in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have, if any, on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social, economic, or monetary policies and other factors, may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future, or may require us to significantly modify our current business practices.. 14. Table of Contents. We maintain a significant operating presence in China and certain of those operations are subject to local Chinese law. There are uncertainties in the interpretation of Chinese laws and regulations. If our Chinese business interests were found to be in violation of any existing or future Chinese laws or regulations or if interpretations of laws and regulations were to change, the business could be subject to fines and other financial penalties, have licenses revoked, or the operations in China could be forced to shut down entirely.. In addition to the risks associated with our continuing operations in China and Hong Kong, on December 30, 2014, we completed the disposition of our Ijie operations; while we experienced cost savings as a result of this disposition, any benefits we receive may be offset by contingent liabilities or additional tax obligations associated with this disposition. For example, if third parties seek to hold us responsible for the liabilities of the Ijie operations, or if any disputes arise between us and the purchasers of the Ijie operations, our business could be harmed.. It is possible that we may not be able to obtain additional financing necessary to execute our business strategy.. We currently believe that our current cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to fund our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for the foreseeable future. Our ability to meet our obligations in the ordinary course of business is dependent upon our ability to maintain profitable operations and/or raise additional financing through public or private equity or debt financings, or other arrangements with corporate sources or other sources of financing to fund operations. However, there is no assurance that we will maintain profitable operations or that additional funding, if required, will be available to us in amounts or on terms acceptable to us.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our stock price has been, and will likely continue to be, highly volatile and subject to significant price and volume fluctuations.. In the recent past, the equity trading markets have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant periods of volatility, resulting in highly variable and unpredictable pricing of equity securities. The market price of our common stock could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry or our operating performance and financial condition. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Our common stock has experienced significant volume and price fluctuations in the past. Our current market price and valuation may not be sustainable. If the market price of our common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your common stock at or above your purchase price. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the object of securities class action litigation. If we were to become the subject of securities class action litigation, we could face substantial costs and be negatively affected by diversion of our management's attention and resources. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly, including a decline below your purchase price, in the future. In addition, the stock markets in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations, which could result in substantial losses for our stockholders.. Future sales of shares of our common stock, or the perception that these shares might be sold, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. In the past, we have filed shelf registration statements with the SEC covering re-sales of shares of our common stock by institutional investors who purchased our shares in private placements. Certain future holders of our common stock may be granted rights to participate in, or require us to file, registration statements for re-sales of common stock, and we may complete public offerings of shares or issue shares pursuant to acquisitions that are freely tradable.. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of our common stock into the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for future sale, will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding stock options or vesting of restricted stock), or the perception that such sales could occur, may materially and adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could deter takeover attempts, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. We may issue shares of preferred stock in the future without stockholder approval and upon such terms as our board of directors may determine. Our issuance of this preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding. 15. Table of Contents. stock and potentially prevent the payment of a premium to stockholders in an acquisition. In addition, our certificate of incorporation includes provisions giving the board the exclusive right to fill all board vacancies, providing for a classified board of directors and permitting removal of directors only for cause and with a super-majority vote of the stockholders.. These provisions also could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, and may limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its outstanding voting stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. This could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company or may otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control from us, either of which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock."
