[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock.. 10. Table of Contents. Our revenue has been concentrated and we anticipate that our billings will continue to be concentrated in a limited number of customers. If we lose any of these customers, or these customers do not pay us, our revenue and billings could decrease substantially.. We have earned a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers. For the year ended December 31, 2017, there were two customers that each accounted for 10% or more of total revenue. We expect that a significant portion of our billings and revenue will continue to come from a limited number of customers for the foreseeable future. If we lose any of these customers, or these customers do not pay us, our billings and revenue could decrease substantially. For example, in February 2017 we announced that we were seeking to relicense Samsung Electronics whose patent license had expired at the end of 2016. In addition, a significant portion of our recurring billings is the result of structured payment terms in connection with the settlement of litigation matters, including our settlements with Amkor Technology, Inc. and Powertech Technology Inc. If we are unable to replace the billings from an expiring license or at the end of structured payment terms of a settlement agreement with similar billings from other customers, our royalties could be adversely impacted as compared to periods prior to such expiration or the end of such payment terms.. From time to time we enter into license agreements that have fixed expiration dates and if, upon expiration or termination, we are unable to renew or replace such license agreements on terms favorable to us, our results of operations could be harmed.. From time to time we enter into license agreements that have fixed expiration dates. Upon expiration of such agreements we need to renew or replace these agreements in order to maintain our royalty base. If we are unable to replace the royalties from an expiring license, either through a renewal or with similar royalties from other customers, our results of operations could be adversely impacted as compared to periods prior to such expiration.. Furthermore, we may not be able to continue licensing customers on terms favorable to us, under the existing terms or at all, which would harm our results of operations. While we have expanded our licensable technology portfolio through internal development and patents purchased from third parties, there is no guarantee that these measures will lead to continued royalties. If we fail to continue to do business with our current licensees, our business would be materially adversely affected.. The success of our patent licensing business is dependent on the quality of our patent assets and our ability to create and implement new technologies or expand our licensable technology through acquisitions.. We derive a significant portion of our billings from patent licenses and royalties, including structured settlement payments. The success of our patent licensing business depends on our ability to continue to develop and acquire high quality patents. We devote significant resources to developing new technologies and to sourcing and acquiring patents to address the evolving needs of the semiconductor and the consumer and communication electronics industries, and we must continue to do so in the future to remain competitive. Developments in our technologies are inherently complex, and require long development cycles and a substantial investment before we can determine their commercial viability. Moreover, competition for acquiring high quality patents is intense and there is no assurance that we can continue to acquire such patents on favorable terms. We may not be able to develop and market new or improved technologies, or to develop or acquire high quality patents, in a timely or commercially acceptable fashion. Furthermore, our acquired and developed patents will expire in the future. Our current U.S. issued patents expire at various times through 2036. We need to develop or acquire successful innovations and obtain royalty-generating patents on those innovations before our current patents expire, and our failure to do so would significantly harm our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Our use of cash and substantial long-term borrowing to finance the DTS acquisition could limit future opportunities for our business, and could materially adversely affect our financial condition if we are unable to pay principal or interest on, or to refinance, such indebtedness.. The DTS acquisition was financed with existing cash balances and a $600 million secured term loan. The combination of reduced cash balances and the incurrence of substantial long-term debt could limit our ability to make future acquisitions, investments and capital expenditures that may be necessary or desirable for the operation or expansion of our business.  Moreover, our ability to service the principal and interest payments on such indebtedness will depend on our continuing ability to generate requisite cash flow from our existing and acquired business operations.  The terms of the indebtedness, as refinanced in January 2018, include covenants that may limit our operating flexibility and create a risk of default if we are unable to meet financial ratios and other covenant requirements.  While we made a voluntary prepayment of $100 million of principal on the indebtedness in January 2018 in connection with the refinancing of the debt, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to make principal and interest payments in future periods, and in any event we may be required to refinance the remaining indebtedness upon its maturity in 2023.  We may be unable to refinance such indebtedness on favorable terms or at all.  For example, a downgrade in our credit rating could make any such refinancing more difficult to secure on favorable. 11. Table of Contents. terms.  A default under, or inability to refinance, our indebtedness could substantially adversely affect our continuing financial viability, and could lead to insolvency, bankruptcy, and the reduction or elimination of stockholders' equity.. Our variable rate indebtedness may expose us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt costs to increase significantly.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $594.0 million of outstanding indebtedness that was subject to floating interest rates. In January 2018 we refinanced the indebtedness, resulting in a lower interest rate, and we made a voluntary prepayment of $100 million of principal in connection with the refinancing.  Changes in economic conditions outside of our control could result in higher interest rates, thereby increasing our interest expense and reducing the funds available for capital investment, operations or other purposes. At December 31 2017, a 1% increase in the effective interest rate on our outstanding debt throughout a one-year period would result in an annual increase in our interest expense of approximately $6.0 million. Any significant increase in our interest expense could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows and also our ability to pay dividends in the future.. We are currently involved in litigation and administrative proceedings involving some of our patents and may be involved in other such actions in the future; any adverse decisions, findings of non-infringement, or invalidation or limitation of the scope of our patents could significantly harm our business.. We are currently involved in litigation involving some of our patents, and may be involved in other such actions in the future. The parties in these legal actions often challenge the infringement, validity, scope, enforceability and/or ownership of our patents. In addition, in the past requests for reexamination or review have been filed in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (\"PTO\") with respect to patent claims at issue in one or more of our litigation proceedings, and oppositions have been filed against us with respect to our patents in the European Patent Office (\"EPO\"). During a reexamination or review proceeding and upon completion of the proceeding, the PTO or EPO may leave a patent in its present form, narrow the scope of the patent, or cancel or find unpatentable some or all of the claims of the patent. For example, the PTO has issued several Official Actions rejecting or maintaining earlier rejections of many of the claims in some of our patents. From time to time we assert these patents and patent claims in litigation and administrative proceedings. If the PTO's adverse rulings are upheld on appeal and some or all of the claims of the patents that are subject to reexamination are canceled, our business may be significantly harmed. In addition, counterparties to our litigation and administrative proceedings may seek and obtain orders to stay these proceedings based on rejections of claims in PTO reexaminations or review proceedings, and other courts or tribunals reviewing our legal actions could make findings adverse to our interests, even if the PTO actions are not final.. We cannot predict the outcome of any of these proceedings or the myriad procedural and substantive motions in these proceedings. If there is an adverse ruling in any legal or administrative proceeding relating to the infringement, validity, enforceability or ownership of any of our patents, or if a court or an administrative body such as the PTO limits the scope of the claims of any of our patents or concludes that they are unpatentable, we could be prevented from enforcing or earning future royalties from those patents, and the likelihood that customers will take new licenses and that current licensees will continue to agree to pay under their existing licenses could be significantly reduced. The resulting reduction in license fees and royalties could significantly harm our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows, as well as the trading price of our common stock.. Regardless of the merits of any claim, the continued maintenance of these legal and administrative proceedings may result in substantial legal expenses and diverts our management's time and attention away from our other business operations, which could significantly harm our business. Our enforcement proceedings have historically been protracted and complex. The time to resolution and complexity of our litigation, its disproportionate importance to our business compared to other companies, the propensity for delay in civil litigation, and the potential that we may lose particular motions as well as the overall litigation could all cause significant volatility in our stock price and have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. The timing of billings under our license and settlement agreements may cause fluctuations in our quarterly or annual results of operations.. From time to time we enter into license and settlement agreements that include pricing or payment terms that result in quarter-to-quarter or year-over-year fluctuations in our revenue, billings and cash flows. The effect of these terms may also cause our aggregate annual royalty revenue or billings to grow less rapidly than annual growth in overall unit shipments in the applicable end market. Additionally, our customers may fail to pay, delay payment of or underpay what they owe to us under our license and settlement agreements, which may in turn require us to enforce our contractual rights through litigation, resulting in payment amounts and timing different than expected based on the terms of our license and settlement agreements. This also may cause our revenue, billings and cash flows to fluctuate on a quarter-to-quarter or year-over-year basis.. 12. Table of Contents. We expect to continue to be involved in material legal proceedings to enforce or protect our intellectual property and contract rights, including material litigation with existing licensees or strategic partners, that could harm our business.. From time to time, our efforts to obtain a reasonable royalty through our sales efforts do not result in the prospective customer agreeing to license our patents or our technology. In certain cases, we become involved in litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, enforce the terms of our license agreements, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, and defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. For example, on September 28, 2017, we filed legal proceedings against Samsung Electronics and certain of its affiliates, alleging infringement of certain of our patents.  Our current legal actions, as described in Part II, Item 1 - Legal Proceedings, are examples of disputes and litigation that impact our business. If we are not able to reach agreement with customers or potential customers we may be involved in similar legal proceedings in the future, including proceedings to ensure proper and full payment of royalties by licensees under the terms of their license agreements.. Existing and any future legal actions may harm our business. For example, legal actions could cause an existing customer or strategic partner to cease making royalty or other payments to us, or to challenge the validity and enforceability of our patents or the scope of our license agreements, and could significantly damage our relationship with such customer or strategic partner and, as a result, prevent the adoption of our technologies and intellectual property by such customer or strategic partner. Litigation could also severely disrupt or shut down the business operations of our customers or strategic partners, which in turn would significantly harm our ongoing relations with them and cause us to lose royalties. Moreover, the timing and results of any of our legal proceedings are not predictable and may vary in any individual proceeding. Further, our product licensing business could be subject to great risk of claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights as a result of our IP licensing business. The risks of third-party infringement claims could be heightened by our need to engage in enforcement activities with respect to our existing patents, as our existing or potential licensees may seek to assert infringement claims against our DTS or other product businesses in response to our enforcement activities relating to our existing patents. For example Broadcom had filed patent litigation against our Play-Fi business which we believe was in response to our patent litigation filed against them. Competitors of our product licensing business would not be subject to such heightened risk of third-party claims, and such claims could adversely affect our product licensing business as well as impair our enforcement ability and licensing royalties.. The cost of litigation is typically very high and can be difficult to predict, and such high costs and unpredictability may negatively impact our financial results.. From time to time we identify products that we believe infringe our patents. We seek to license the companies that design, make, use, import, sell, or offer for sale those products, but sometimes those companies are unwilling to enter into a license agreement. In those circumstances, we may elect to enforce our patent rights against those companies and products. Litigation stemming from these or other disputes could harm our relationships with those companies or other licensees, or our ability to gain new customers, who may postpone licensing decisions pending the outcome of the litigation or dispute, or who may, as a result of such litigation, choose not to adopt our technologies. In addition, these legal proceedings could be very expensive and may significantly reduce our profits.. In addition, from time to time our customers with existing license agreements dispute their obligations under such agreements, or we may dispute their reporting of royalties due under such agreements.  In the past, customers have threatened to initiate litigation against us regarding our licensing royalty rate practices including our adherence to licensing on fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory terms and potential antitrust claims.. The costs associated with legal proceedings are typically high, relatively unpredictable, and not completely within our control. These costs may be materially higher than expected, which could adversely affect our operating results and lead to volatility in the price of our common stock. Whether or not determined in our favor or ultimately settled, litigation diverts our managerial, technical, legal and financial resources from our business operations. Furthermore, an adverse decision in any of these legal actions could result in a loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses from others, limit the value of our licensed technology or otherwise negatively impact our stock price or our business and consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Even if we prevail in our legal actions, significant contingencies may exist to their settlement and final resolution, including the scope of the liability of each party, our ability to enforce judgments against the parties, the ability and willingness of the parties to make any payments owed or agreed upon, and the dismissal of the legal action by the relevant court, none of which are completely within our control. Parties that may be obligated to pay us royalties or damages, or that may otherwise be subject to a judgment, could become insolvent or decide to alter their business activities or corporate structure, which could affect our ability to collect royalties or damages from, or enforce a judgment against, such parties.. 13. Table of Contents. Recent and proposed changes to U.S. patent laws, rules, and regulations may adversely impact our business.. Our business relies in part on the uniform and historically consistent application of U.S. patent laws, rules, and regulations. There have been numerous recent administrative, legislative, and judicial changes and proposed changes to patent laws and rules that may have a significant impact on our ability to protect our technology and enforce our intellectual property rights.  For example, there have been and may be bills introduced in the U.S. Congress relating to patent law that could adversely impact our business depending on the scope of any bills that may ultimately be enacted into law.  As another example, the U.S. Supreme Court and lower courts have in recent years issued decisions that are not favorable to patent owners. Some of these changes or potential changes may not be advantageous for us and may make it more difficult to obtain adequate patent protection, or to enforce our patents against parties using them without a license or payment of royalties. These changes or potential changes could increase the costs and uncertainties surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement of our patent rights and could have a negative effect on our ability to license our patents and, therefore, on the royalties we can collect.. Some of our license agreements may convert to fully paid-up licenses at the expiration of their terms, or upon certain milestones, and we may not receive royalties after that time.. From time to time we enter into license agreements that automatically convert to fully paid-up licenses upon expiration or upon reaching certain milestones. We may not receive further royalties from customers for any licensed technology under those agreements if they convert to fully paid-up licenses because such customers will be entitled to continue using some, if not all, of the relevant intellectual property or technology under the terms of the license agreements without further payment, even if relevant patents or technologies are still in effect. If we cannot find another source of royalties to replace the royalties from these license agreements converting to fully paid-up licenses, our results of operations following such conversion would be materially adversely affected.. A significant amount of our royalty revenue and billings comes from a few end markets and products, and our business could be harmed if demand for these market segments or products declines.. A significant portion of our royalties comes from the manufacture and sale of packaged semiconductor chips for DRAM, application-specific standard product semiconductors, application-specific integrated circuits, and memory. In addition, we derive substantial royalties from the incorporation of our technology into mobile devices, consumer products and computer hardware. If demand for semiconductors in any one or a combination of these market segments or products declines, our royalties may be reduced significantly and our business would be harmed.. The long-term success of our business is dependent on a royalty-based business model, which is inherently risky.. The long-term success of our business is dependent on future royalties paid to us by customers. Royalty payments under our licenses may be based, among other things, upon the number of electrical connections to the semiconductor chip in a package covered by our licensed technology, a percent of net sales, a rate per package, a per unit sold basis or a fixed quarterly amount. We are dependent upon our ability to structure, negotiate and enforce agreements for the determination and payment of royalties, as well as upon our customers' compliance with their agreements. We face risks inherent in a royalty-based business model, many of which are outside of our control, such as the following:. • the rate of adoption and incorporation of our technology by semiconductor manufacturers, assemblers, manufacturers of consumer and communication electronics, and the automotive and surveillance industry;. • the willingness and ability of materials and equipment suppliers to produce materials and equipment that support our licensed technology, in a quantity sufficient to enable volume manufacturing;. • the ability of our customers to purchase such materials and equipment on a cost-effective and timely basis;. • the length of the design cycle and the ability of us and our customers to successfully integrate certain of our imaging technologies into their integrated circuits;. • the demand for products incorporating semiconductors that use our licensed technology;. • the cyclicality of supply and demand for products using our licensed technology;. • the impact of economic downturns; and. • the impact of poor financial performance of our customers.. It is difficult for us to verify royalty amounts owed to us under our licensing agreements, and this may cause us to lose revenue and billings.. The terms of our license agreements often require our customers to document their use of our technology and report related data to us on a quarterly basis. Although our license terms generally give us the right to audit books and records of our customers to verify this information, audits can be expensive, time consuming, and may not be cost justified based on our. 14. Table of Contents. understanding of our customers' businesses, especially given the international nature of our customers. Our license compliance program audits certain customers to review the accuracy of the information contained in their royalty reports in an effort to decrease the likelihood that we will not receive the royalty to which we are entitled under the terms of our license agreements, but we cannot give assurances that such audits will be effective to that end.. The markets for semiconductors and related products are highly concentrated, and we may have limited opportunities to license our technologies or sell our products.. The semiconductor industry is highly concentrated in that a small number of semiconductor designers and manufacturers account for a substantial portion of the purchases of semiconductor products generally, including our products and products incorporating our technologies. Continued consolidation in the semiconductor industry may increase this concentration. Accordingly, we expect that licenses of our technologies and sales of our products will be concentrated with a limited number of customers for the foreseeable future. As we develop and acquire new technologies and integrate them into our product line, we will need to establish new relationships to sell these products. Our financial results significantly depend on our success in establishing and maintaining relationships with, and effecting substantial sales to, these customers. Even if we are successful in establishing and maintaining such relationships, our financial results will be dependent in large part on these customers' sales and business results.. We make significant investments in new products and services that may not achieve technological feasibility or profitability or that may limit our growth.. We have made and will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing of new technologies, products and services, including audio, imaging, and advanced semiconductor packaging, bonding, and interconnect technologies. Investments in new technologies are speculative and technological feasibility may not be achieved. Commercial success depends on many factors including demand for innovative technology, availability of materials and equipment, selling price the market is willing to bear, competition and effective licensing or product sales. We may not achieve significant revenue or billings from new product and service investments for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, new technologies, products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically or originally anticipated.. We may not be able to evolve our audio and imaging technologies, products, and services, or develop new technologies, products, and services, that are acceptable to our customers or the evolving markets, and our customers may use technologies offered at lower cost by others.. The markets for our audio and imaging technologies, products, and services are characterized by:. • rapid technological change and product obsolescence;. • new and improved product introductions;. • changing consumer demands;. • increasingly competitive product landscape; and. • evolving industry standards.. Our future success in our product licensing business depends upon our ability to enhance our existing technologies, products, and services and to develop enhanced and acceptable new technologies, products, and services on a timely basis. The development of enhanced and new audio and imaging technologies, products, and services is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, highly-skilled engineering and development personnel, and the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We may not be able to accurately identify, develop, market, or support new or enhanced technologies, products, or services on a timely basis, if at all. Furthermore, our new imaging and audio technologies, products, and services may never gain market acceptance, and we may not be able to respond effectively to evolving consumer demands, technological changes, product announcements by competitors, or emerging industry standards. Any failure to respond to these changes or concerns would likely prevent our imaging and audio technologies, products, and services from gaining market acceptance or maintaining market share and could lead to our imaging and audio technologies, products, and services becoming obsolete.. Furthermore, the decision by a party dominant in the entertainment value chain to provide audio technology at very low or no cost could cause our customers and other manufacturers not to utilize our audio technologies or services in the future. Our customers may choose to use technologies that their own in-house audio engineering teams have developed, or in which they have an interest.  Accordingly, our revenue or billings could decline if our customers choose not to incorporate our audio technologies in their products, or if they sell fewer products incorporating our audio technologies.. 15. Table of Contents. Competing technologies may harm our business.. We expect that our technologies will continue to compete with technologies of internal design groups at semiconductor manufacturers, assemblers, electronic component and system manufacturers. The internal design groups of these companies create their own packaging and imaging solutions. If these internal design groups design around our patents or introduce unique solutions superior to our technology, they may not need to license our technology. These groups may design technology that is less expensive to implement or that enables products with higher performance or additional features. Many of these groups have substantially greater resources, greater financial strength and lower cost structures which may allow them to undercut our price. They also have the inherent advantage of access to internal corporate strategies, technology roadmaps and technical information. As a result, they may be able to bring alternative solutions to market more easily and quickly.. DTS audio technologies compete with other providers of audio products and services, with Dolby Laboratories as the primary competitor in high-definition audio processing.  Dolby Laboratories enjoys certain competitive advantages in selling its digital multi-channel audio technology, having introduced such technology before we did, and having achieved mandatory standard status in product categories that we have not, including terrestrial digital TV broadcasts in the United States.. For our embedded image processing technologies such as Face Detection and our other products, our offerings compete with other image processing software vendors such as ArcSoft, Inc. as well as internal design groups of mobile phone and digital camera manufacturers providing similar technologies by employing different approaches.. In the future, our licensed technologies may also compete with other technologies that emerge. These technologies may be less expensive and provide higher or additional performance. Companies with these competing technologies may also have greater resources. Technological change could render our technologies obsolete, and new, competitive technologies could emerge that achieve broad adoption and adversely affect the use of our technologies and intellectual property.. If we do not successfully further develop and commercialize the technologies we acquire, or cultivate strategic relationships that expand our licensable portfolio, our competitive position could be harmed and our operating results adversely affected.. We attempt to expand our licensable technology portfolio and technical expertise by further developing and acquiring new technologies or developing strategic relationships with others. These strategic relationships may include the right for us to sublicense technology and intellectual property to others. However, we may not be able to acquire or obtain rights to licensable technology and intellectual property in a timely manner or upon commercially reasonable terms. Even if we do acquire such rights, some of the technologies we invest in may be commercially unproven and may not be adopted or accepted by the industry. Moreover, our research and development efforts, and acquisitions and strategic relationships, may be futile if we do not accurately predict the future needs of the semiconductor, consumer and communication electronics, and consumer imaging and audio processing industries. Our failure to acquire new technologies that are commercially viable in the semiconductor, consumer and communication electronics, and consumer imaging and audio processing industries could significantly harm our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The way we integrate internally developed and acquired technologies into our products and licensing programs may not be accepted by customers.. We have devoted, and expect to continue to devote, considerable time and resources to developing, acquiring and integrating new and existing technologies into our products and licensing programs. However, if customers do not accept the way we have integrated our technologies, they may adopt competing solutions. In addition, as we introduce new products or licensing programs, we cannot predict with certainty if and when our customers will transition to those new products or licensing programs. Moreover, with respect to certain of our imaging technologies, even after we have signed a license agreement with a customer, we will often not see significant royalties from that customer until after such technologies have been successfully designed into the customer's integrated circuits, which can take 18 months or longer. If customers fail to accept new or upgraded products or licensing programs incorporating our technologies, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted.. If we fail to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, contract rights, and our confidential information, our business will suffer.. We rely primarily on a combination of license, development and nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions, as well as patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws, to protect our technology and intellectual property. If we fail to protect our technology, intellectual property, or contract rights, our customers and others may seek to use our technology and intellectual property without the payment of license fees and royalties, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our operating results and increase the likelihood of costly litigation. The growth of our business depends in large part on our. 16. Table of Contents. ability to secure intellectual property rights in a timely manner, our ability to convince third parties of the applicability of our intellectual property rights to their products, and our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights.. In certain instances, we attempt to obtain patent protection for portions of our technology, and our license agreements typically include both issued patents and pending patent applications. If we fail to obtain patents in a timely manner or if the patents issued to us do not cover all of the inventions disclosed in our patent applications, others could use portions of our technology and intellectual property without the payment of license fees and royalties. For example, our business may suffer if we are unable to obtain patent protection in a timely manner from the PTO due to processing delays resulting from examiner turnover and a continuing backlog of patent applications.. We also rely on trade secret laws rather than patent laws to protect other portions of our proprietary technology. However, trade secrets can be difficult to protect. The misappropriation of our trade secrets or other proprietary information could seriously harm our business. We protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, suppliers and customers. We cannot be certain that these contracts have not been and will not be breached, that we will be able to timely detect unauthorized use or transfer of our technology and intellectual property, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. If we fail to use adequate mechanisms to protect our technology and intellectual property, or if a court fails to enforce our intellectual property rights, our business will suffer. We cannot be certain that these protection mechanisms can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated or challenged.. Further, the laws and enforcement regimes of certain countries do not protect our technology and intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement regimes of the U.S. In certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our technology and intellectual property adequately against unauthorized use, which could adversely affect our business.. Our business may suffer if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights.. Third parties may claim that either we or our customers are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Even if we believe that such claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend against and will divert management's attention and resources away from our business. Furthermore, third parties making such claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could block our ability to further develop or commercialize some or all of our products or services in the U.S. and abroad. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or defend or indemnify our customers against judgments, damages, or other losses. Even if we have an agreement that provides for a third party to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to perform its contractual obligations under the agreement. If we cannot or do not license the allegedly infringed intellectual property on reasonable terms, or need to substitute similar technology from another source, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could suffer.. Our licensing cycle is lengthy and costly, and our marketing, legal and sales efforts may be unsuccessful.. We generally incur significant marketing, legal and sales expenses prior to entering into our license agreements, generating a license fee and establishing a royalty stream from each licensee. The length of time it takes to establish a new licensing relationship, and/or for our customers to incorporate certain imaging technologies in their integrated circuits, can be 18 months or longer. As such, we may incur significant expenses in any particular period before any associated royalty or cash flow stream begins.. Our business incurs significant reverse engineering expenditures on products of potential licensees in order to prepare sales and marketing collateral. We employ intensive marketing and sales efforts to educate licensees, potential licensees and original equipment manufacturers about the benefits of our technologies. In addition, even if these companies adopt our technologies, they must devote significant resources to integrate fully our technologies into their operations. If our marketing and sales efforts are unsuccessful, then we may not be able to achieve widespread acceptance of our technology. In addition, ongoing litigation could impact our ability to gain new licensees which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. If our licensees delay, refuse to or are unable to make payments to us due to financial difficulties or otherwise, or shift their licensed products to other companies to lower their royalties to us, our operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected.. A number of companies in the semiconductor and consumer electronics industries face severe financial difficulties from time to time. As a result, there have been bankruptcies and restructuring of companies in these industries.  As an example, in our quarter ended September 30, 2017 we recorded a bad debt charge for $1.6 million relating to past due receivables from two LeEco affiliates, based on our significant doubts about full collection due to substantial financial stress and negative payment. 17. Table of Contents. history that these affiliates exhibited recently. Other customers may face similar financial difficulties which may result in their inability to make payments to us in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, we have had a history of, and we may in the future experience, customers that delay or refuse to make payments owed to us under license or settlement agreements. Our customers may also merge with or may shift the manufacture of licensed products to companies that are not currently licensees to us. This could make the collection process complex and difficult, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Failure by the semiconductor industry to adopt our technology for the next generation high performance chips used in consumer electronics would significantly harm our business.. To date, our technology has been used by several companies in high performance semiconductor chips, including DRAM. For example, packaging using our technology is used for DDR3 and DDR4 DRAM and we currently have customers who are paying royalties for DRAM chips in advanced packages.. We anticipate that royalties from shipments of next-generation semiconductor chips using our technology may account for a significant percentage of our future royalties. If semiconductor manufacturers do not continue to use our technology for the next-generation chips and find viable alternative technologies for use with next-generation chips, or if we do not receive royalties from the next-generation chips that use our technology, our future financial performance and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Our technology may be too expensive for certain next-generation semiconductor manufacturers, which could significantly reduce the adoption rate of our technology in next-generation chips. Even if our technology is selected for at least some of these next-generation chips, there could be delays in the introduction of products utilizing these chips that could materially affect the amount and timing of any royalty payments that we receive. Other factors that could affect adoption of our technology for next-generation semiconductor products include delays or shortages of materials and equipment and the availability of testing services.. Similarly, our audio licensing royalties from consumer electronics product manufacturers depends, in large part, upon the availability of ICs that implement our technologies. IC manufacturers incorporate our audio technologies into these ICs, which are then incorporated into consumer electronics products. We do not manufacture these ICs, but rather depend upon IC manufacturers to develop, produce and then sell them to licensed consumer electronics product manufacturers. We do not control the IC manufacturers' decisions whether or not to incorporate our technologies into their ICs, and we do not control their product development or commercialization efforts. If these IC manufacturers are unable or unwilling to implement our technologies into their ICs, production is delayed, or if they sell fewer ICs incorporating our technologies, our operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected.. The investment of our cash, cash equivalents and investments in marketable debt securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments.. At December 31, 2017, we held approximately $138.3 million in cash and cash equivalents and $62.4 million in short-term investments. These investments include various financial securities such as corporate bonds and notes, municipal bonds and notes, commercial paper, treasury and agency notes and bills, and money market funds. Although we invest in high quality securities, ongoing financial events have at times adversely impacted the general credit, liquidity, market and interest rates for these and other types of debt securities. Changes in monetary policy by the Federal Reserve, government fiscal policies, and global economic and market conditions may adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio. While we have historically held our investments to maturity, we may in the future have a need to sell investments before their maturity dates, which could result in losses on the sale of those investments. For example, the DTS acquisition resulted in us liquidating a significant portion of our investments.  The financial market and monetary risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our intellectual property business operates in a highly cyclical industry, which is subject to significant downturns.. The semiconductor industry in which our intellectual property business primarily operates has historically been cyclical and is characterized by wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time to time, this industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, declining economic conditions, maturing product and technology cycles, and excess inventories. This cyclicality could cause our operating results to decline from one period to the next. Our business depends, in part, upon the volume of production by our customers, which, in turn, depends upon the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and products that use semiconductors. Semiconductor manufacturers and package assembly companies generally sharply curtail their spending during industry downturns, and historically have lowered their spending more than the decline in their revenue. As a result, our financial results have been, and will continue to be,. 18. Table of Contents. impacted by the cyclicality of the electronics industry. If we are unable to control our expenses adequately in response to lower royalties from our customers in such downturns, our results of operations and cash flows will be materially and adversely impacted.. If we are unable to maintain a sufficient amount of content released in the DTS audio format, demand for the technologies, products, and services that we offer to consumer electronics product manufacturers may significantly decline, which would adversely impact our business and prospects.. We expect to derive a significant percentage of our billings from the technologies, products, and services that we offer to manufacturers of consumer electronics products. We believe that demand for our audio technologies in growing markets for multi-channel and/or high resolution audio, including TVs, tablets, mobile phones, video game consoles, automobiles, and soundbars, will be based on the amount, quality, and popularity of content (such as movies, TV shows, music, and games) either released in the DTS audio format or capable of being coded and played in the DTS format. In particular, our ability to penetrate the growing markets in the network-connected space depends on the presence of streaming and downloadable content released in the DTS audio format. We generally do not have contracts that require providers of streaming and downloadable content to develop and release such content in a DTS audio format. Accordingly, our billings could decline if these providers elect not to incorporate DTS audio into their content or if they sell less content that incorporates DTS audio.. In addition, we may not be successful in maintaining existing relationships or developing new relationships with other existing or new content providers. As a result, we cannot assure you that a sufficient amount of content will be released in a DTS audio format to ensure that manufacturers continue offering DTS decoders in the consumer electronics products that they sell.. Demand for our HD Radio technology may be insufficient to sustain projected growth.. Demand for and adoption of HD Radio technology may not be sufficient for us to continue to increase the number of customers of our HD Radio system, which include IC manufacturers, manufacturers of broadcast transmission equipment, consumer electronics products manufacturers, component manufacturers, data service providers, manufacturers of specialized and test equipment and radio broadcasters.. Among other things, continuing and increased consumer acceptance of HD Radio technology will depend upon:. •   the number of radio stations broadcasting digitally using HD Radio technology;. •   the willingness of automobile manufacturers to include HD Radio receivers in their vehicles;. •   the willingness of manufacturers to incorporate HD Radio technology into their products;. •   the cost and availability of HD Radio enabled products; and. •   the marketing and pricing strategies that we employ and that are employed by our customers and retailers.. If demand for HD Radio technology does not continue to increase as expected, we may not be able to increase our DTS royalties as projected.. Our HD Radio technology may not remain competitive if we do not respond to changes in technology, standards and services that affect the radio broadcasting industry.. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to technological change, evolving industry standards, regulatory restrictions and the emergence of other media technologies and services. Our HD Radio technology may not gain market acceptance over these other technologies. Various other audio technologies and services that have been developed and introduced include:. •   internet streaming, cable-based audio programming and other digital audio broadcast formats;. •   satellite delivered digital audio radio services that offer numerous programming channels;. •   other digital radio competitors, such as Digital Radio Mondiale, or DAB; and. •   growth in use of portable devices for storage and playback of audio content.. Competition arising from these or other technologies or potential regulatory change may have an adverse effect on the radio broadcasting industry or on our company and our financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to further penetrate the streaming and downloadable content delivery markets and adapt our technologies for those markets, our royalties and ability to grow our audio business could be adversely impacted.. Video and audio content has historically been purchased and consumed primarily via optical disc-based media. However, the growth of the internet and network-connected device usage, along with the rapid advancement of online and mobile content. 19. Table of Contents. delivery has resulted in download and streaming services becoming mainstream with consumers in various parts of the world. We expect the shift away from optical disc-based media to streaming and downloadable content consumption to continue. If we fail to continue to penetrate the streaming and downloadable content delivery market, our audio business could suffer.. The services that provide content from the cloud are not generally governed by international or national standards and are thus free to choose any media format(s) to deliver their products and services. This freedom of choice on the part of online content providers could limit our ability to grow if such content providers do not incorporate our technologies into their services, which could affect demand for our technologies.. Furthermore, our inclusion in mobile and other network-connected devices may be less profitable for us than optical disc players. The online and mobile markets are characterized by intense competition, evolving industry standards and business and distribution models, disruptive software and hardware technology developments, frequent new product and service introductions, short product and service life cycles, and price sensitivity on the part of consumers, all of which may result in downward pressure on pricing. If we are unable to adequately and timely respond to the foregoing, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.. Changes in financial accounting or taxation standards, rules, practices or interpretations may cause adverse unexpected revenue and expense fluctuations which may impact our reported results of operations.. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).  These principles are subject to interpretations by the SEC and various accounting bodies. In addition, we are subject to various taxation rules in many jurisdictions. The existing taxation rules are generally complex, frequently changing and subject to interpretation. Changes to taxation rules, changes to financial accounting standards, or any changes to the interpretations of these standards or rules may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way in which we conduct business. Recent accounting pronouncements and their estimated potential impact on our business are addressed in Note 2 - \"Summary of Significant Accounting Policies\" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.. In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") issued ASU 2014-09, \"Revenue from Contracts with Customers\" (\"ASU 2014-09\"), and since May 2014 the FASB has issued amendments to this new guidance, which collectively provides guidance for revenue recognition. ASU 2014-09 became effective for us beginning January 1, 2018 and we will adopt the new standard under the modified retrospective approach. Under the new standard, the historical practice of many licensing companies of reporting revenue from per-unit royalty-based agreements one quarter in arrears is no longer accepted and instead companies are now expected to estimate royalty-based revenue. This guidance will significantly impact our revenue recognition.  First, we will no longer be allowed to follow our past practice of recording per unit license revenue on a quarter lag basis, a practice precipitated by the lack of reliable estimates for such revenue.  Second, we are now required to record all or a significant majority of revenue under our fixed fee and minimum guarantee license agreements when such agreements are entered into rather than recording them over time as is our typical practice today and which generally is more closely aligned with the billing cycle and cash flows from such agreements. While the changes in revenue recognition do not impact our cash flows, the impact on our Statement of Operations under the new accounting standard may impact how investors perceive our business which could materially impact the value of our common stock.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cut and Jobs Act (\"Tax Act\") was signed into law. The Tax Act introduced a broad range of tax reform measures that significantly change the federal income tax laws. The provisions of the Tax Act that may have significant impact on us include the permanent reduction of the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective for tax years including or commencing on January 1, 2018, one-time transition tax on post-1986 foreign unremitted earnings,  provision for global intangible low-taxed income (\"GILTI\"), deduction for foreign-derived intangible income (\"FDII\"), repeal of corporate alternative minimum tax, limitation of various business deductions, modification of the maximum deduction of net operating loss with no carryback but indefinite carryforward provision,  and limitation  on the deductibility of executive compensation. Many provisions in the Tax Act are generally effective in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017.. We continue to analyze additional information and new guidance issued by relevant authorities related to the Tax Act which could impact the determination of the net deferred taxes subject to the remeasurement and the related impact to the assessment of valuation allowance. The prospects of supplemental legislation or regulatory processes to address questions that arise because of the Tax Act, or evolving technical interpretations of the tax law, may cause the final impact from the Tax Act to differ materially from the recorded amounts.. Our rate of taxation in foreign jurisdictions has historically been lower than our U.S. tax rate. Our international income is primarily earned by our subsidiaries organized in Ireland and the United Kingdom, and, as such, our effective tax rate can be impacted by the composition of our earnings in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development issued guidelines and proposals during October 2015 that may change how our tax obligations are. 20. Table of Contents. determined in many of the countries in which we do business. These potential changes could also adversely affect our effective tax rate.. Our future effective tax rate may be affected by such factors as changes in tax laws, changing interpretation and new guidance related to the Tax Act, the impact of accounting for stock-based compensation, the impact of accounting for business combinations, changes in the composition of global earnings, the expiration of statute of limitations, settlements of audits, changes in our international organization and changes in overall levels of income before tax.. We have in the past recorded, and may in the future record, significant valuation allowances on our deferred tax assets, and the recording and release of such allowances may have a material impact on our results of operations and cause fluctuations in our stock price.. The need for a valuation allowance requires an assessment of both positive and negative evidence on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis when determining whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable.  In making such assessment, significant weight is given to evidence that can be objectively verified. In the future, new facts and circumstances and new guidance related to the Tax Act may require us to re-evaluate our valuation allowance positions which could potentially affect our effective tax rate.. We continue to monitor the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets, including those for which a valuation allowance is recorded.  There can be no assurance that we will generate profits in future periods enabling us to fully realize our deferred tax assets. The timing of recording a valuation allowance or the reversal of such valuation allowance is subject to objective and subjective factors that cannot be readily predicted in advance. Both the establishment of a valuation allowance and the reversal of a previously recorded valuation allowance may have a material impact on our financial results, which may lead to fluctuation in the value of our stock.. The international nature of our business exposes us to financial and regulatory risks that may have a negative impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows, and we may have difficulty protecting our intellectual property in some foreign countries.. We derive a significant portion of our royalties from licensees headquartered outside of the U.S. We also have operations outside of the U.S., including our research and development facilities in Ireland, Romania and the United Kingdom, to design, develop, test or market certain technologies. International operations are subject to a number of risks, including but not limited to the following:. • changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment;. • regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions;. • laws and business practices favoring local companies;. • withholding tax obligations on license royalties that we may not be able to offset fully against our U.S. tax obligations, including the further risk that foreign tax authorities may re-characterize license fees or increase tax rates, which could result in increased tax withholdings and penalties;. • security concerns, including crime, political instability, terrorist activity, armed conflict and civil or military unrest;. • differing employment practices, labor issues and business and cultural factors;. • less effective protection of intellectual property than is afforded to us in the U.S. or other developed countries; and. • limited infrastructure and disruptions, such as large-scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities or telecommunications providers.. Our intellectual property is also used in a large number of foreign countries. There are many countries in which we currently have no issued patents. In addition, effective intellectual property enforcement may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. It may be difficult for us to protect our intellectual property from misuse or infringement by other companies in these countries. We expect this to become a greater problem for us as our licensees increase their manufacturing and sales in countries which provide less protection for intellectual property. Our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights in some countries may harm our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Our business and operating results may be harmed if we are unable to manage growth in our business, if we undertake any further restructuring activities or if we dispose of a business division or dispose of or discontinue any product lines.. We have in the past expanded our operations, domestically and internationally, and may continue to do so through both internal growth and acquisitions. In December 2016, we acquired DTS, resulting in our headcount more than doubling year over year.  If our growth continues, it may place a significant strain on our management team and on our operational and financial. 21. Table of Contents. systems, procedures, and controls. Our future success will depend, in part, upon the ability of our management team to manage any growth effectively, requiring our management to:. • recruit, hire, and train additional personnel;. • implement and improve our operational and financial systems, procedures, and controls;. • maintain our cost structure at an appropriate level based on the royalties, billings and cash we forecast and generate;. • manage multiple concurrent development projects; and. • manage operations in multiple time zones with different cultures and languages.. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth or we are unsuccessful in recruiting and retaining personnel, our business and operating results will be harmed.  Moreover, if our acquisitions or other growth initiatives do not prove to be profitable, we may undertake to restructure our business, including the disposition of a business division, or the disposition or discontinuance of a product line, as we have done in previous years. Any restructuring, disposition or discontinuance would require substantial management time and attention and may divert management from other important work, and may result in significant liabilities and costs as described earlier.. Disputes regarding our intellectual property may require us to defend or indemnify certain customers or licensees, the cost of which could adversely affect our business operations and financial condition.. While we generally do not defend or indemnify our customers, some of our license agreements in our imaging and audio businesses provide limited defense and indemnities for certain actions brought by third parties against our customers, and some require us to provide technical support and information to a customer that is involved in litigation for using our technology. Our defense, indemnity and support obligations could result in substantial expenses. In addition to the time and expense required for us to defend, indemnify or supply such support to our customers, a customer's development, marketing and sales of licensed image or audio products could be severely disrupted or shut down as a result of litigation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. If we lose any of our key personnel or are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively.. Our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our key management, engineering, sales, marketing, intellectual property, legal and finance personnel, many of whom are highly skilled and would be difficult to replace. None of our senior management, key technical personnel or key sales personnel are bound by written employment contracts to remain with us for a specified period. In addition, we do not currently maintain key-person life insurance covering our key personnel or have restrictions on their post-employment ability to solicit our employees, contractors or customers if key personnel voluntarily terminate their employment. The loss of any of our senior management or other key personnel could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the ability of these executives to effectively drive execution of our business strategy, and on the ability of our management team to work together effectively.. Our success also depends on our ability to attract, train and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales, marketing, legal and finance personnel and on the abilities of new personnel to function effectively, both individually and as a group. Competition for qualified senior employees can be intense. We have also experienced difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled engineers with appropriate qualifications to support our growth and expansion. Further, we must train our new personnel, especially our technical support personnel, to respond to and support our licensees and customers. If we fail to do this, it could lead to dissatisfaction among our licensees or customers, which could slow our growth or result in a loss of business.. Our business operations could suffer in the event of information technology system failures or security breaches.. Despite system redundancy and the implementation of security measures within our internal and external information technology and networking systems, our information technology systems may be subject to security breaches, unauthorized access (malicious or accidental), misuse of information by authorized users, data leaks or unintentional exposure of information, failed process, loss of data, damages from computer viruses or malware, natural disasters, terrorism, telecommunication failures or disruption of service. Any system failure or security breach could cause interruptions in our operations in addition to the possibility of losing proprietary information and trade secrets. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our confidential information, we may incur liability or additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches.. Decreased effectiveness of share-based compensation could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees.. 22. Table of Contents. We have historically used stock options, restricted stock grants and other forms of stock-based compensation as key components of employee compensation in order to align employees' interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention and provide competitive compensation and benefit packages. We incur significant compensation costs associated with our stock-based compensation programs. Failure to obtain stockholder approval of equity compensation plans or changes to the plans could make it harder or more expensive for us to grant stock-based compensation to employees in the future. As a result, we may find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, and any such difficulty could have a materially adverse impact on our business.. Failure to comply with environmental regulations could harm our business.. We use hazardous substances in the manufacturing and testing of prototype products and in the development of technologies in our research and development laboratories. We are subject to a variety of local, state and federal regulations relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture and disposal of toxic or other hazardous substances. Our past, present or future failure to comply with environmental regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, and alteration of our manufacturing processes or cessation of operations. Compliance with such regulations could require us to acquire expensive remediation equipment or to incur other substantial expenses. Any failure to control the use, disposal, removal or storage of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, or assist in the cleanup of, hazardous or toxic substances, could subject us to significant liabilities, including joint and several liabilities under certain statutes. The imposition of such liabilities could significantly harm our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Our effective tax rate depends on our ability to secure the tax benefits of our international corporate structure, on the application of the tax laws of various jurisdictions and on how we operate our business.. Our international corporate structure and intercompany arrangements, including the manner in which we market, develop, use and license our intellectual property, fund our operations and structure transactions with our international subsidiaries, may result in the increase or reduction of our worldwide effective tax rate. Such international corporate structure and intercompany arrangements are subject to examination by the tax authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the United States. The application of the tax laws of these jurisdictions to our international business activities is subject to interpretation and depends on our ability to operate our business in a manner consistent with our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements. Moreover, such tax laws are subject to change. Tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany transfer pricing arrangements, including our transfer of intangibles, or determine that the manner in which we operate our business does not achieve the intended tax consequences. Additionally, current and future changes in the tax laws or interpretations (such as the enactment of the Tax Act to reform U.S. taxation of international business activities) may have an adverse effect on our international corporate structure and operations. The result of an adverse determination of any of the above items could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations.. We have business operations located in places that are subject to natural disasters.. Our business operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect our facilities, computer systems and personnel. Our corporate headquarters are located in the San Francisco Bay Area and we have engineering activities in several locations throughout California, which in the past have experienced severe earthquakes. We do not carry earthquake insurance for any of our facilities except for our office in Calabasas, California. Earthquakes or other natural disasters could severely disrupt our operations, and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. We have made and may continue to make or to pursue acquisitions which could divert management's attention, cause ownership dilution to our stockholders, or be difficult to integrate, which may adversely affect our financial results.. We have made several acquisitions, and it is our current plan to continue to acquire companies, assets, patents and technologies that we believe are strategic to our future business. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2016, we acquired DTS, Inc., for approximately $955 million.  In the third quarter of 2015, we acquired Ziptronix, Inc. for approximately $39 million. Investigating businesses, assets, patents or technologies and integrating newly acquired businesses, assets, patents or technologies could put a strain on our resources, could be costly and time consuming, and might not be successful. Such activities divert our management's attention from other business concerns. In addition, we might lose key employees while integrating new organizations or operations. Acquisitions could also result in customer dissatisfaction, performance problems with an acquired company or technology, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, the assumption or incurrence of contingent liabilities, impairment charges related to goodwill and possible impairment charges related to other intangible assets or other unanticipated events or circumstances, any of which could harm our business.. Our plans to integrate and expand upon research and development programs and technologies obtained through acquisitions may result in products or technologies that are not adopted by the market. The market may adopt competitive solutions to our. 23. Table of Contents. products or technologies. Consequently, we might not be successful in integrating any acquired businesses, assets, products or technologies, and might not achieve anticipated revenue and cost benefits.. There are numerous risks associated with our acquisitions of businesses, technologies and patents.. We have made a number of acquisitions of businesses, technologies and patents in recent years. These acquisitions are subject to a number of risks, including but not limited to the following:. • these acquisitions could fail to produce anticipated benefits or could have other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. As a result, these acquisitions could result in a reduction of net income per share as compared to the net income per share we would have achieved if these acquisitions had not occurred. We may also be required to recognize impairment charges of acquired assets or goodwill, and if we decide to restructure acquired businesses, we may incur other restructuring charges;. • the purchase price for each acquisition is determined based on significant judgment on factors such as projected cash flow, quality and availability of the business, technology or patent. In addition, if other companies have similar interests in the same business, technology or patent, our ability to negotiate these acquisitions at favorable terms may be limited and the purchase price may be artificially inflated;. • following completion of these acquisitions, we may uncover additional liabilities, patent validity, infringement or enforcement issues or unforeseen expenses not discovered during our diligence process;. • any such additional liabilities, patent validity, infringement or enforcement issues or expenses could result in significant unanticipated costs not originally estimated, such as impairment charges of acquired assets and goodwill, and may harm our financial results;. • the integration of technologies, patent assets and personnel, if any, will be a time consuming and expensive process that may disrupt our operations if it is not completed in a timely and efficient manner. If our integration efforts are not successful, our results of operations could be harmed, employee morale could decline, key employees could leave, and customer relations could be damaged. In addition, we may not achieve anticipated synergies or other benefits from any of these acquisitions;. • we have incurred substantial direct transaction and integration costs as a result of past acquisitions.  In future acquisitions, the total direct transaction costs and the costs of integration may exceed our expectations;. • sales by the acquired businesses may be subject to different accounting treatment than our existing businesses, especially related to the recognition of revenue. This may lead to the loss or deferral of revenue under current and emerging accounting standards;. • there may be a significant time lag between acquiring patent assets and recognizing royalties from those patent assets. During that time lag, material costs are likely to be incurred in preparing licensing or litigation efforts and amortization of acquired patent assets that would have a negative effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position;. • we may require external financing that is dilutive or presents risks of debt; and. • we are required to estimate and record fair values of contingent assets, liabilities, deferred tax assets and liabilities at the time of an acquisition. Even though these estimates are based on management's best judgment, the actual results may differ. Under the current accounting guidance, differences between actual results and management's estimate could cause our operating results to fluctuate or could adversely affect our results of operations.. If our amortizable intangible assets (such as acquired patents) become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.. In addition to internal development, we intend to broaden our intellectual property portfolio through strategic relationships and acquisitions such as the acquisitions of DTS, Inc. in the fourth quarter of 2016, and Ziptronix, Inc. in the third quarter of 2015. We believe these strategic relationships and acquisitions will enhance the competitiveness and size of our current businesses and provide diversification into markets and technologies that complement our current businesses. Future acquisitions could be in the form of asset purchases, equity investments, or business combinations. As a result, we may have intangible assets which are amortized over their estimated useful lives. We review our amortizable intangible assets (such as our patent portfolio) for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable or the useful life is shorter than originally estimated. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our amortizable or other intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in future cash flows, fluctuations in market capitalization, slower growth rates in our industry or slower than anticipated adoption of our products by our customers. As we continue to review for factors that may affect our business which may not be in our control, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our amortizable intangible assets or equity investments is determined, resulting in an adverse impact on our business, financial position, or results of operations.. 24. Table of Contents. Current and future governmental and industry standards may significantly limit our business opportunities.. Technology standards are important in the audio and video industry as they help to assure compatibility across a system or series of products. Generally, standards adoption occurs on either a mandatory basis, requiring a particular technology to be available in a particular product or medium, or an optional basis, meaning that a particular technology may be, but is not required to be, utilized. If standards are re-examined or a new standard is developed in which we are not included, our growth in that area of our business could be significantly lower than expected.. As new technologies and entertainment media emerge, new standards relating to these technologies or media may develop. New standards may also emerge in existing markets that are currently characterized by competing formats, such as the market for PCs. We may not be successful in our efforts to include our technology in any such standards.. Changes in or failure to comply with FCC requirements could adversely impact our HD Radio revenue and royalties.. In October 2002, the Federal Communications Commission, or the FCC, selected our \"In-Band, On-Channel\" (\"IBOC\") technology, also known as \"HD Radio technology,\" as the exclusive technology for introduction of terrestrial digital operations by AM and FM radio stations.  In the United States, the FCC regulates the broadcast radio industry, interprets laws enacted by Congress and establishes and enforces regulations governing radio broadcasting.  It is unclear what rules and regulations the FCC may adopt regarding digital audio broadcasting and what effect, if any, such rules and regulations will have on our Product Licensing Segment, the operations of stations using our HD Radio technology or consumer electronics manufacturers.  Any additional rules and regulations imposed on digital audio broadcasting could adversely impact the attractiveness of HD Radio technology and negatively impact our business. Also, non-compliance by us, or by radio stations offering HD Radio broadcasts, with any FCC requirements or conditions could result in fines, additional license conditions, license revocation or other detrimental FCC actions.. Our licensing of industry standard technologies can be subject to limitations that could adversely affect our business and prospects.. When a standards-setting body adopts our technologies as explicit industry standards, we generally must agree to license such technologies on a fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory basis, which we believe means that we treat similarly situated customers similarly. In these situations, we may be required to limit the royalty rates we charge for these technologies, which could adversely affect our business. Furthermore, we may have limited control over whom we license such technologies to and may be unable to restrict many terms of the license. From time to time, we may be subject to claims that our licenses of our industry standard technologies may not conform to the requirements of the standards-setting body. Claimants in such cases could seek to restrict or change our licensing practices or our ability to license our technologies in ways that could harm our reputation and otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects.. Our financial and operating results may vary, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline.. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. Because our operating results are difficult to predict, one should not rely on quarterly or annual comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate during any period or that could adversely affect our ability to achieve our strategic objectives include those listed in this \"Risk Factors\" section of this report and the following:. • the timing of, and compliance with license or service agreements and the terms and conditions for payment to us of license or service fees under these agreements;. • fluctuations in our royalties caused by the pricing terms of certain of our license agreements;. • the amount of our product and service revenue;. • changes in the level of our operating expenses;. • delays in our introduction of new technologies or market acceptance of these new technologies through new license agreements;. • our ability to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or the terms of our agreements;. • legal proceedings affecting our patents, patent applications or license agreements;. • the timing of the introduction by others of competing technologies;. • changes in demand for semiconductor chips in the specific end markets in which we concentrate;. • changes in demand for camera-enabled devices including cell phones, security systems and personal computers;. • the timing of the conclusion of license agreements;. • the length of time it takes to establish new licensing arrangements;. • meeting the requirements for revenue recognition under generally accepted accounting principles;. 25. Table of Contents. • changes in generally accepted accounting principles including new accounting standards which may materially affect our revenue recognition and the comparability between revenue recognition and cash flow from customer royalties; and. • cyclical fluctuations in semiconductor markets generally.. Due to fluctuations in our operating results, reports from market and security analysts, litigation-related developments, and other factors, the price at which our common stock will trade is likely to continue to be highly volatile. In future periods, if our revenue, royalties, billings, cash flows or operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline.. We may not continue to pay dividends at the same rate we are currently paying them, or at all, and any decrease in or suspension of the dividend could cause our stock price to decline.. We currently pay a quarterly dividend to $0.20 per share. We also have returned capital to shareholders through stock repurchases. We anticipate that all quarterly dividends and stock repurchases will be paid out of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments.  The payment of future cash dividends is subject to the final determination each quarter by our Board of Directors that the dividend remains in our best interests, which determination will be based on a number of factors, including our earnings, financial condition, actual and forecasted cash flows, capital resources and capital requirements, alternative uses of capital, economic condition and other factors considered relevant by management and the Board of Directors.  Any decrease in the amount of the dividend, or suspension or discontinuance of payment of a dividend, could cause our stock price to decline.. Our stock repurchase program could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock, and the program may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.. In August 2007, we authorized a plan to repurchase our outstanding shares of common stock dependent on market conditions, share price and other factors. As of December 31, 2017, the total amount available for repurchase under the plan was $142.8 million.. The amount of repurchases under our stock repurchase program will vary. In 2015, we repurchased approximately 3,300,000 shares for an aggregate amount of $119.2 million. In 2016, we repurchased approximately 2,300,000 shares for an aggregate amount of $67.7 million. In 2017, we repurchased approximately 654,000 shares for an aggregate amount of $15.3 million. Additionally, the timing of repurchases is at our discretion and the program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Any suspension or discontinuation could cause the market price of our stock to decline. The timing of repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program could affect our stock price and increase its volatility. There can be no assurance that any stock repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we effected repurchases. Furthermore, we may engage in mergers, acquisitions, or other activity that could result in us reducing or discontinuing share repurchases for a period of time. For example, the DTS acquisition resulted in a significant decrease in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, as well as the issuance of approximately $600 million in debt. The terms of our current or future debt agreements could limit our ability to repurchase shares. We made no repurchases during the first six months of 2017 and repurchases during the second half of 2017 well below our repurchases in prior years.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws or Delaware law might delay or prevent a change of control transaction and depress the market price of our stock.. Various provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws might have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of our company. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Certain of these provisions eliminate cumulative voting in the election of directors, authorize the board to issue \"blank check\" preferred stock, prohibit stockholder action by written consent, eliminate the right of stockholders to call special meetings, and establish advance notice procedures for director nominations by stockholders and the submission of other proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law which could delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. In particular, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years unless specific conditions are met. Any of these provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, including without limitation, discouraging a proxy contest or making more difficult the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock.. 26. Table of Contents"
