[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting the Company's financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods.. Risks Related to our Financial Condition. If we are unable to maintain our line of credit facility or have a significant change in our borrowing base, we could face a deficiency in our short-term cash needs that would negatively impact our business (amounts in thousands).. The Company maintains a Credit and Security Agreement with KeyBank National Association (\"KeyBank\"), as administrative agent, KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., ZB, N.A., dba Zions First National Bank, and JPMorgan Chase, N.A. (\"Credit and Security Agreement\").The Credit and Security Agreement provides an $110,000 revolving credit commitment (\"Revolver\") from January 1, 2018 to May 31, 2018, which reduces to a $100,000 Revolver from June 1, 2018 forward. Borrowings and repayments under the Revolver may occur from time to time in the Company's ordinary course of business through the maturity date of March 2, 2021, at which time any amounts outstanding are to be paid in full (60-month term). All borrowings under the Revolver are subject to a borrowing base limit, which is calculated from outstanding accounts receivable and inventory on hand, and is reported to the administrative agent monthly. Interest on the Revolver will accrue at the base rate (as defined in the Credit and Security Agreement) plus 0.5% or LIBOR plus 1.5%. The Revolver is subject to an unused line fee calculated as 0.2% multiplied by the average unused amount of the Revolver.. The Credit and Security Agreement also provides a $25,000 term loan commitment (\"Term Loan\"). Payments on the Term Loan are to be made in consecutive monthly installments commencing on April 1, 2016 and continuing until the Term Loan is paid in full on March 2, 2020 (48-month term). Interest on the Term Loan will accrue at the base rate plus 1.0% or at a rate of LIBOR plus 2.0%.. The Credit and Security Agreement contains a number of financial and non-financial debt covenants, and the amount available under the Revolver is limited to the borrowing base calculated on at least a monthly basis. If we are not compliant with the covenants or have a reduction in our borrowing base, our ability to access the Revolver will be limited and the outstanding borrowings under the Term Loan may be declared immediately due and payable. In such event, our short-term cash requirements may exceed available cash on hand resulting in material adverse consequences to our business. If we need to obtain additional funds as a result of the termination of the Credit and Security Agreement or the acceleration of amounts due thereunder, there can be no assurance that alternative financing can be obtained on substantially similar or acceptable terms, or at all. Our failure to promptly obtain alternate financing could limit our ability to implement our business plan and have an immediate, severe and adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In the event that no alternative financing is available, we would be forced to drastically curtail operations, dispose of assets, or cease operations altogether.. The restrictive covenants contained in our Credit and Security Agreement may limit our activities.. Our obligations under the Credit and Security Agreement are secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company. Under the Credit and Security Agreement, we are subject to specified affirmative covenants customary for loans of this type. We are also subject to certain negative covenants customary for loans of this type.. Failure to comply with the restrictive covenants could accelerate the repayment of any debt outstanding under the Credit and Security Agreement. Additionally, as a result of these restrictive covenants, we may be at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have greater operating and financing flexibility than we do.. 7. Our level of indebtedness reduces our financial flexibility and could impede our ability to operate.. The Credit and Security Agreement requires us to pay a variable rate of interest, which will increase or decrease based on variations in LIBOR. Additionally, fluctuations in interest rates can significantly decrease our profits. We do not have any hedge or similar contracts that would protect us against changes in interest rates.. The amount of our indebtedness could have important consequences for us, including the following:. • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, future growth opportunities and other purposes;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations, as any failure to comply with such obligations, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the Credit and Security Agreement, which could lead to, among other things, an acceleration of our indebtedness or foreclosure of the collateral, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition;. • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds, or to sell assets to raise funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; and. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates.. We may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations to service and repay our debt and related obligations and have sufficient remaining funds to achieve or sustain profitability in our operations, meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs or compete successfully in our industry, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Increases in interest rates may increase our interest expense and adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $37,538 of debt outstanding which was subject to variable interest rates. This variable rate debt had a total weighted average interest rate of approximately 3.33% per annum as of December 31, 2017. Increases in interest rates on this variable rate debt would increase our interest expense, which could harm our cash flow.. Risks Related to our Company and Business. Because sales of consumer electronic accessories are dependent on new products, product development and consumer acceptance, we could experience sharp decreases in our sales and profit margin if we are unable to continually introduce new products and achieve consumer acceptance.. The consumer and mobile electronics accessory industries are subject to constant and rapidly changing consumer preferences based on performance features and industry trends. We generate all of our sales from our consumer and mobile electronics accessories business. We cannot assure our stakeholders that we will be able to grow the revenues of our business or maintain profitability. Our consumer accessories business depends, to a large extent, on the introduction and availability of innovative products and technologies. We believe that our future success depends in large part upon our ability to enhance our existing products and to develop, introduce, and market new products and improvements to our existing products.. However, if we are not able to continually innovate and introduce new products that achieve consumer acceptance, our sales and profit margins may decline. Our revenues and profitability will depend on our ability to maintain existing and generate additional customers and develop new products. A reduction in demand for our existing products would have a material adverse effect on our business. The sustainability of current levels of our business and the future growth of such revenues, if any, depends on, among other factors:. • the overall performance of the economy and discretionary consumer spending,. • competition within key markets,. • continued customer acceptance of our products,. • customer acceptance of newly developed products, and. • the demand for other products and services.. We cannot provide assurance that we will maintain or increase our current level of revenues or profits in future periods.. While we are pursuing and will continue to pursue product development opportunities, there can be no assurance that such products will come to fruition or become successful. Furthermore, while a number of those products are being tested, we cannot provide any definite date by which they will be commercially available or financially viable. We may experience operational problems with such products after commercial introduction that could delay or defeat the ability of such products to generate revenue or operating profits. Future operational problems could increase our costs, delay our plans or adversely affect our reputation or our sales of other products which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our success and our ability to satisfy our obligations. We cannot predict which of the many possible future products will meet evolving industry standards and consumer demands. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to adapt to such technological changes, offer such products on a timely basis or establish or maintain a competitive position.. 8. Because we sell indirectly to customers through third-party retailers who operate traditional brick-and-mortar locations, the shift of sales demographics to more online retail business could harm our market share and our revenues.. Part of our current business model includes indirectly selling our products through third-party retailers. These third-party retailers operate physical brick-and-mortar locations to sell our product to our end customers. The current shift in purchasing demographics due to the changing preferences of customers who are moving from in-store purchases of goods to the convenience of online purchases creates additional risks of current revenue streams being impacted negatively and an overall decrease of market share.. Because we face intense competition, including competition from companies with significantly greater resources than ours, if we are unable to compete effectively with these companies, our market share may decline and our business could be harmed.. Our market is highly competitive with numerous competitors. Some of our competitors may have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources than we possess, which may afford them competitive advantages over us. As a result, our competitors may introduce products that have advantages over our products in terms of features, functionality, ease of use, and revenue producing potential. They may also have more fully developed sales channels for consumer sales including large retail seller arrangements and international distribution capabilities. In addition, new companies may enter the markets in which we compete, further increasing competition in the consumer electronics accessories industry. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins, loss of market share and an inability to generate cash flows that are sufficient to maintain or expand our development and marketing of new products, which would adversely impact our financial performance.. Because we are dependent on third party sources to acquire sufficient quantities of raw materials to produce our products, any interruption in those relationships could harm our results of operations and our revenues.. The Company does not manufacture any of our products, rather employs various third party manufacturing partners to perform these services on our behalf. The services employed by these third parties include the selection of sub-suppliers that provide raw materials and other components used in the manufacturing process. Our manufacturing partners acquire substantially all of the raw materials that we use in our products from a variety of suppliers. We can give no assurance that:. • our supplier relationships will continue as presently in effect,. • our suppliers will not become competitors,. • our suppliers will be able to obtain the components necessary to produce high-quality, technologically-advanced products for us,. • we will be able to obtain adequate alternatives to our supply sources should they be interrupted,. • if obtained, alternatively sourced products of satisfactory quality would be delivered on a timely basis, competitively priced, comparably featured or acceptable to our customers, and. • our suppliers will have sufficient financial resources to fulfill their obligations.. Our inability to procure sufficient quality and quantities of products that are in demand could reduce our profitability and have a negative effect on our relationships with our customers. If any of our supplier relationships are terminated or interrupted, we could experience an immediate or long-term supply shortage, which would have a negative effect on our business.. Because we do not own all the technology incorporated in the InvisibleShield film products, the impact of technological advancements may cause profit margin erosion and adversely impact our profitability and inventory value.. Although protection of IP is important to the Company and we protect IP when appropriate, we do not view IP in our industry as an effective barrier to entry because of the rapidly changing industry in which we operate. Very often, by the time we receive patent or other IP protection on a product that would serve as a barrier to entry, the market has moved on to new technologies or products. Given this, we are very selective in what we decide to protect, measuring the cost to protect certain aspects of IP against the potential benefit.. Due to our close partnership with suppliers in Asia, our third-party logistics partner, and the manufacturer of the raw film used in our InvisibleShield and ISOD products, our product development teams work directly with these partners in the development of products. Our key suppliers in Asia have contractually agreed that the Company will retain all patents and IP rights to products that arise through our relationship, including design changes and innovations regardless of who instigates the product development change. Our film supplier retains the patents and IP rights for products it develops on our behalf, though has contractually agreed to not sell the raw materials to any of our competitors. As we do not own the IP for raw materials, including the InvisibleShield film and glass products, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to source technologically advanced products in the future in order to remain competitive. Furthermore, the introduction or expected introduction of new products or technologies may depress sales of existing products and technologies. This may result in declining profit margins and inventory obsolescence. Because we maintain a substantial investment in product inventory, declining prices and inventory obsolescence could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Although we do not own the patent for the film raw materials, which is held by our exclusive supplier, this supplier has contractually agreed to not sell the raw materials to any of our competitors. We believe that our relationship with the manufacturer of the raw material is on excellent terms and anticipate no interruption in our ability to acquire adequate supplies of raw materials and produce products. The Company has not entered into any material agreements to license technology included in our other products.. 9. Our estimates of excess and obsolete inventory may prove to be inaccurate, in which case the net realizable value for excess and obsolete inventory may be understated or overstated. Although we make every effort to ensure the accuracy of our forecasts of future product demand, any significant unanticipated changes in demand or technological developments could have a significant impact on the value of our inventory and operating results.. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to expand into additional complementary product categories or to continue to configure our products to match new products or devices.. Although we anticipate expanding into additional complementary product categories to provide support to our strategy to provide creative product solutions to mobile device users, there can be no guarantee that we will be successful in innovating and expanding into additional product categories. Numerous factors, including market acceptance, finding and retaining contract partners that are acceptable to ZAGG, and general market and economic conditions, could prevent us from participating in these complementary product categories, which could limit our ability to implement our business strategy. Similarly, although we intend to continue to configure the screen protection, keyboards, audio, battery cases, power management, wireless charging, cases, and other product categories for new products and devices, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to either match the current demand for our products as new devices and products are introduced, or that purchasers of such devices and products will want to purchase our products for use in connection with them. Any limitation in our ability to match demand or gain market acceptance of our products in connection with new devices and products could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Breaches of our information technology systems may materially damage business partner and customer relationships, curtail or otherwise adversely impact access to online stores, or subject the Company to significant reputational, financial, legal and operational consequences.. Our business requires that the Company use and store customer, employee and business partner personally identifiable information (\"PII\"), which may include, among other information, names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers, and payment account information. The Company requires user names and passwords in order to access its information technology systems. The Company also uses encryption and authentication technologies designed to secure the transmission and storage of data and prevent access to Company data or accounts. As with all companies, these security measures are subject to third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management, or other irregularities. For example, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. To help protect customers and the Company, the Company monitors accounts and systems for unusual activity and may freeze accounts under suspicious circumstances, which may result in the delay or loss of customer orders.. The Company devotes significant resources to network security, data encryption and other security measures to protect its systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security. To the extent the Company was to experience a breach of its systems and was unable to protect sensitive data, such a breach could materially damage business partner and customer relationships, and curtail or otherwise adversely impact access to online stores and services. Moreover, if a computer security breach affects the Company's systems or results in the unauthorized release of PII, the Company's reputation and brand could be materially damaged, use of the Company's products and services could decrease, and the Company could be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. While the Company maintains insurance coverage that, subject to policy terms and conditions and subject to a significant self-insured retention, is designed to address certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise in the continually evolving area of cyber risk.. If we fail to maintain proper inventory levels, our business could be harmed.. We produce our key products prior to the time we receive customers' purchase orders. We do this to minimize purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders, and the risk of non-delivery. However, we may be unable to sell the products we have produced in advance. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Conversely, if we underestimate demand for our products or if we fail to produce the quality products that we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact distributor relationships, and diminish brand loyalty.. Mobile electronic devices typically have relatively short life cycles. We may be left with obsolete inventory if we do not accurately project the life cycle of different mobile electronic devices. The charges associated with reserving slow-moving or obsolete inventory as a result of not accurately estimating the useful life of mobile electronics could negatively impact the value of our inventory, and operating results.. As we continue to grow our business into new markets, including internationally, it may put pressure on our gross profit margins.. The Company looks to continue its expansion into new markets, including internationally. As the Company expands into new international markets through distributors, new indirect customers, and existing relationships with current indirect customers, it is possible that this expansion will adversely impact our consolidated gross profit margins. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we will continue to recognize similar gross profit margins in the future to those currently being realized.. 10. As we continue to grow our business, entrance into new and complimentary product categories may put pressure on our gross profit margins.. We anticipate expanding into additional complementary product categories or in expanding our footprint in current product categories to support our strategies to provide creative product solutions to mobile device users and to diversify our product portfolio. However, there can be no guarantee that this expansion will occur at or above the gross profit margins we have historically realized. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we will continue to recognize similar gross profit margins in the future to those currently being realized.. Because we are dependent for our success on key executive officers, our inability to retain these officers could impede our business plan and growth strategies, which could have a negative impact on our business and the value of your investment.. Our success depends on the skills, experience and performance of key members of our management team including Chris Ahern, our CEO; Brian Stech, our President; and Bradley J. Holiday, our CFO. Although we have employment agreements with these individuals, were we to lose one or more of these key executive officers, we could be forced to expend significant time and money in the pursuit of a replacement, which could result in both a delay in the implementation of our business plan and the diversion of working capital. Thus, the Board has implemented succession plans for each of these roles, and systematically monitors the development and progression of each employees who has been identified as a possible future candidate for such roles.. A small number of our customers account for a significant amount of our net sales, and the loss of, or reduced purchases from, these or other customers could have an adverse effect on our operating results.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, Superior Communications, Inc. (\"Superior\") was our largest customer and accounted for greater than 10% of net sales. For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, Superior, Best Buy Co., Inc. (\"Best Buy\"), and GENCO Distribution Systems, Inc.(\"GENCO\") were our largest customers. The amount of net sales for each of these customers is outlined as follows:. 2017   2016   2015 Superior 30 %   27 %   17 % Best Buy 9 %   11 %   20 % GENCO 8 %   11 %   11 %. During 2017, 2016, and 2015, no other customers accounted for greater than 10% of net sales.. Although we have contracts in place governing our relationships with customers, the contracts are not long-term and all of our retailers generally purchase from us on a purchase order basis. As a result, these retailers generally may, with little or no notice or penalty, cease ordering and selling our products, or materially reduce their orders. If any of these retailers cease selling our products, slow their rate of purchase of our products, or decrease the number of products they purchase, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. If the Company loses one or more of its significant customers, it would have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may be adversely affected by the financial condition of our retailers and distributors.. Some of our retailers and distributors have experienced financial difficulties in the past. A retailer or distributor experiencing such difficulties will generally not purchase and sell as many of our products as it would under normal circumstances and may cancel orders. In addition, a retailer or distributor experiencing financial difficulties generally increases our exposure to uncollectible receivables. We extend credit to our retailers and distributors based on our assessment of their financial condition, without requiring collateral. While such credit losses have historically been within our estimated reserves for allowances for bad debts, we cannot assure that this will continue to be the case. Financial difficulties on the part of our retailers or distributors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. At December 31, 2017, the balance of accounts receivable from two separate customers exceeded 10%: Superior and Best Buy. At December 31, 2016, the balance of accounts receivable from three separate customers exceeded 10%:  Superior, Best Buy, and GENCO.. 2017   2016 Superior 31 %   32 % Best Buy 18 %   22 % GENCO 7 %   10 %. 11. No other customer account balances were more than 10% of accounts receivable at December 31, 2017 or 2016. If one or more of the Company's significant customers were to become insolvent or were otherwise unable to pay for the products provided, it would have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to attract, train and retain sufficient numbers of our qualified personnel, our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected.. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate skilled and qualified personnel. Failure to attract and retain necessary technical personnel, sales and marketing personnel, and skilled management could adversely affect our business. If we fail to attract, train, and retain sufficient numbers of these highly qualified people, our prospects, business, financial condition, and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected.. If our products contain defects, our reputation could be harmed and our results of operations adversely affected.. Some of our products may contain undetected defects due to imperfections in the underlying base materials used in production or manufacturing defects. The occurrence of defects or malfunctions could result in financial losses for our customers and in turn increase warranty claims from our customers and diversion of our resources. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products and loss of sales.. Because we experience seasonal and quarterly fluctuations in demand for our products, no one quarter is indicative of our results of operations for the entire fiscal year.. Our quarterly results may fluctuate quarter to quarter as a result of market acceptance of our products, the sales mix, changes in pricing, the timing of inventory write downs, changes in the cost of materials, the use of airfreight to transport products, incurring other operating costs and factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions and actions of competitors. We are also affected by seasonal buying cycles of consumers, such as the holiday season, and the introduction of popular consumer electronics, such as a new introduction of products from Apple, Samsung, Microsoft, HTC, Blackberry, and others. Accordingly, the results of operations in any quarter will not necessarily be indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year or any future quarter.. Because we have limited protection on the intellectual property underlying our products, we may not be able to protect our products from the infringement of others or may be prevented from marketing our products.. We do not own proprietary rights with respect to the film we use in our InvisibleShield products. However, we have protected key proprietary design and utility elements of other products through patents. In addition, we own and keep confidential the design configurations of the film and the product cut designs which are our copyrights. We seek to protect our IP rights through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and partners, and domestic and foreign patent prosecution and similar means. However, no assurance can be given that such measures will be sufficient to protect our IP rights or that the IP rights that we have are sufficient to protect other persons from creating and marketing substantially similar products. If we cannot protect our rights, we may lose our competitive advantage. Moreover, if it is determined that our products infringe on the IP rights of third parties, we may be prevented from marketing our products.. Claims relating to the infringement of third-party proprietary rights, even if not meritorious, could result in costly litigation, divert management's attention and resources, or require us to either enter into royalty or license agreements which are not advantageous to us or pay material amounts of damages. In addition, parties making these claims may be able to obtain an injunction, which could prevent us from selling our products.. Uncertainty in the economy can affect consumer spending patterns, which could adversely affect our business.. Consumer spending patterns, especially discretionary spending for products such as mobile, consumer and accessory electronics, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, energy costs, raw material costs, wage rates, inflation, interest rates, consumer debt, consumer confidence, and consumer perception of economic conditions. A general slowdown in the U.S. and certain international economies, or an uncertain economic outlook or market volatility could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results.. The disruptions in the national and international economies due to market volatility and uncertainty could depress consumer confidence and spending. If such conditions persist, consumer spending will likely decline further and this would have an adverse effect on our business and our results of operations.. 12. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth, our operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected.. We intend to grow our business through strategic acquisitions and organically by expanding our sales and product development organizations. Any growth in or expansion of our business is likely to place a strain on our management and administrative resources, infrastructure, and information systems. As with other growing businesses, we expect that we will need to refine and expand our business development capabilities, our systems and processes, and our access to financing sources. We also will need to hire, train, supervise, and manage new employees. These processes are time consuming and expensive, will increase management responsibilities and will divert management attention. We provide no assurance that we will be able to:. • expand our systems effectively or efficiently or in a timely manner;. • allocate our human resources optimally;. • meet our capital needs;. • identify and hire qualified employees or retain valued employees; or. • incorporate effectively the components of any business or product line that we may acquire in our effort to achieve growth.. If our competitors misappropriate our proprietary know-how and trade secrets, it could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We depend heavily on the expertise of our product development team. If any of our competitors copy or otherwise gains access to similar products independently, we might not be able to compete as effectively. The measures we take to protect our designs may not be adequate to prevent their unauthorized use. Further, the laws of foreign countries may provide inadequate protection of such IP rights. We have brought and in the future may need to bring legal claims to enforce or protect such IP rights. Any litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversions of resources.. If any of our facilities were to experience catastrophic loss, our operations would be seriously harmed.. Our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss from fire, flood, earthquake, or terrorist activity. Our activities, including sales and marketing, customer service, finance, and other critical business operations are in two primary locations. Our manufacturing and logistics activities are conducted at other facilities separate from our corporate headquarters. Any catastrophic loss at these facilities could disrupt our operations, delay production and revenue, and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. While we have obtained insurance to cover most potential losses, we cannot provide assurance that our existing insurance coverage will be adequate against all other possible losses.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, and current and potential stockholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting.. We are required to establish and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (\"U.S. GAAP\"). We are likewise required, on an annual basis, to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls and to disclose on a quarterly basis any material changes in those internal controls.. Any failure to maintain and continue to improve our internal controls could adversely impact our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis. If our financial statements are not accurate, investors may not have a complete understanding of our operations or may lose confidence in our reported financial information. Likewise, if our financial statements are not filed on a timely basis as required by the SEC and The Nasdaq Global Market, we could face severe consequences from those authorities. In either case, it could result in a material adverse effect on our business or have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting for the most recent reporting period, and our business and stock price may be adversely affected if we do not adequately address the weakness or if we have other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting.. Our risk assessment process was ineffective because we failed to consider the business changes and their impact on financial reporting and internal controls; specifically, we failed to consider the impact of changes in operational processes related to (1) the proper tracking and recording of customer returns; and (2) the increased volume of accounts receivable transactions with a significant customer as of December 31, 2017. As a consequence, the Company did not design effective process level control activities over the accuracy of net sales and accounts receivable amounts.  A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the registrant's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The existence of these material weaknesses could result in errors in our financial statements. Additionally, if we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our stock could decline significantly, we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business, and our business and financial condition could be harmed.. 13. Because we distribute products internationally, economic, political and other risks associated with our international sales and operations could adversely affect our operating results.. Because we sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our sales to customers outside the United States accounted for approximately 16% of our net sales in fiscal 2017. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including:. • changes in foreign currency exchange rates;. • exchange controls;. • changes in regulatory requirements;. • changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions;. • tariffs, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;. • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws or application of such tax laws;. • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations;. • changing labor regulations;. • requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries;. • different regimes controlling the protection of our IP;. • restrictions on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in these jurisdictions; and. • restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries.. Our international operations are affected by global economic and political conditions, only some of which are described above. Changes in economic or political conditions in any of the countries in which we operate could result in exchange rate movement, new currency or exchange controls or other restrictions being imposed on our operations. We cannot provide assurance that such changes will not have an adverse effect on our foreign operations and our financial results.. There can be no guarantee that additional amounts spent on marketing or advertising will result in additional sales or revenue to the Company.. In 2018, management intends to expand our advertising with more interactive displays within retailers, continue our marketing efforts relating to existing products and potential new product introductions and increase our social media marketing campaigns. However, there can be no guarantee that such increased advertising or marketing efforts and strategies will result in increased sales.. Due to the changes in U.S. tax laws, uncertainty arises in our various tax conclusions.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. President signed into law a sweeping tax reform bill known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Act\"). The Tax Act makes changes to the corporate tax rate, business-related deductions and taxation of foreign earnings, among others, that will generally be effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017. These changes did have a material adverse impact on the value of our U.S. deferred tax assets, resulting in a significant one-time charge in the current taxable year. We are continuing to evaluate the Tax Act and its requirements, as well as its application to our business and its impact on our effective tax rate. At this stage, it is unclear how many U.S. states will incorporate these federal law changes, or portions thereof, into their tax codes.. The Tax Act, or any related, similar or amended legislation or other changes in U.S. federal income tax laws, could adversely affect the U.S. federal income taxation of our and our affiliates' ongoing operations and may also adversely affect the integration efforts relating to, and potential synergies from, past strategic transactions. Any such changes and related consequences could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.. Risks Related to the Company's Securities. Because the price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, our shareholders may not be able to sell shares of our common stock at or above the price paid for such shares.. The price for shares of our common stock has exhibited high levels of volatility with significant volume and price fluctuations, which may make our common stock unsuitable for some investors. For example, for the two years ended December 31, 2017, the closing price of our common stock ranged from a high of $23.70 to a low of $4.71 per share. At times, the fluctuations in the price of our common stock may be unrelated to our operating performance. The price of our common stock may also be influenced by:. • fluctuations in our results of operations or the operations of our competitors or customers;. • the aggregate amount of our outstanding debt and perceptions about our ability to make debt service payments;. • failure of our results of operations and sales revenues to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors;. • perceived reductions in demand or expectations regarding future demand by our customers;. • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding us, our competitors or our customers;. • the timing and announcements of product innovations, new products or financial results by us or our competitors;. • the performance of mophie post acquisition;. • changes in ZAGG directors or executives;. 14. • increases in the number of shares of our common stock outstanding; and. • changes in our industry.. Based on the above, our stock price may continue to experience volatility. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that our investors will be able to resell our common stock at or above the price at which they purchased it.. Because we may, at some time in the future, issue additional securities, shareholders are subject to dilution of their ownership.. Although we have no immediate plans to raise additional capital, we may at some time in the future do so. Any such issuance would likely dilute shareholders' ownership interest in our company and may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. In addition, from time to time we may issue shares of common stock in connection with equity financing activities or as incentives to our employees and business partners. We may expand the number of shares available under stock incentive and option plans, or create new plans. All issuances of common stock would be dilutive to an existing investor's holdings in the Company. If an investor's holdings are diluted, the overall value of the shares may be diminished and the ability to influence shareholder voting will also be harmed.. Because we do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future, investors seeking cash dividends will not purchase our common stock.. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to support the development and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Our payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including but not limited to our financial condition, operating results, cash needs, growth plans and the terms of any credit agreements that we may be a party to at the time. In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock may be limited by state law. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may not occur in the future, as the only way to realize their investment.. We may not be able to successfully integrate businesses we have acquired or which we may acquire in the future, and we may not be able to realize anticipated cost savings, revenue enhancements, or other synergies from such acquisitions.. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and achieve targeted financial results and other benefits including, among other things, greater market presence and development, and enhancements to our product portfolio and customer base, is dependent on our ability to successfully integrate businesses we may acquire in the future. We may not realize these benefits, as rapidly as, or to the extent, anticipated by our management. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired businesses, products or technologies without substantial expenses, delays or other operational or financial problems. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, some or all which could have a material adverse effect on any acquired businesses, products or technologies. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any acquired business, product, or technology will be profitable or achieve anticipated revenues and income. Our failure to manage our acquisition strategy successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The process of integrating an acquired business involves risks, including but not limited to:. • demands on management related to the significant increase in the size of our business;. • diversion of management's attention from the management of daily operations;. • difficulties in the assimilation of different corporate cultures and business practices;. • difficulties in conforming the acquired company's accounting policies to ours;. • retaining the loyalty and business of the customers of acquired businesses;. • retaining employees that may be vital to the integration of acquired businesses or to the future prospects of the combined businesses;. • difficulties and unanticipated expenses related to the integration of departments, information technology systems, including accounting systems, technologies, books and records, and procedures, and maintaining uniform standards, such as internal accounting controls, procedures, and policies;. • costs and expenses associated with any undisclosed or potential liabilities;. • the use of more cash or other financial resources on integration and implementation activities than we expect; and. • our ability to avoid labor disruptions in connection with any integration, particularly in connection with any headcount reduction.. Failure to successfully integrate any acquired businesses in the future may result in reduced levels of anticipated revenue, earnings, or operating efficiency than might have been achieved if we had not acquired such businesses.. In addition, any future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense, contingent liabilities, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results, and cash flow.. Techniques employed by short sellers may drive down the market price of the Company's common stock.. Short selling is the practice of selling securities that the seller does not own, but rather has borrowed from a third party with the intention of buying identical securities back at a later date to return to the lender. The short seller hopes to profit from a decline in the value of the securities between the sale of the borrowed securities and the purchase of the replacement shares, as the short seller expects to pay less in that. 15. purchase than it received in the sale. As it is in the short seller's best interests for the price of the stock to decline, many short sellers publish, or arrange for the publication of, negative opinions regarding the relevant issuer and its business prospects in order to create negative market momentum and generate profits for themselves after selling a stock short. These short attacks have, in the past, led to selling of shares in the market.. In the past several years, our securities have been the subject of short selling. Reports and information have been published about ZAGG which the Company believes are mischaracterized or incorrect, and which have occasionally been followed by a decline in our stock price.. It is not clear what additional effects the negative publicity will have on the Company, if any, other than potentially affecting the market price of our common stock. If the Company continues to be the subject of unfavorable allegations, the Company may have to expend a significant amount of resources to investigate such allegations and/or defend itself. While the Company would strongly defend against any such short seller attacks, the Company may be constrained in the manner in which it can proceed against the relevant short seller by principles of freedom of speech, applicable state law, or issues of commercial confidentiality. Such a situation could be costly and time-consuming, and could distract the Company's management from growing the Company. Additionally, such allegations against the Company could negatively impact its business operations and stockholders' equity, and the value of any investment in the Company's stock could be reduced."
