[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. A description of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business is set forth below. You should carefully consider such risks and uncertainties, together with the other information contained in this report, and in our other public filings. If any of such risks and uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, or operating results could differ materially from the plans, projections, and other forward-looking statements included in the section titled \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and elsewhere in this report and in our other public filings. In addition, if any of the following risks and uncertainties, or if any other risks and uncertainties, actually occurs, our business, financial condition, or operating results could be harmed substantially, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline, perhaps significantly.. Risks Related to Our Business. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, substantially all of our revenue and cash flows from Zendesk Support. If we fail to adapt this product to changing market dynamics and customer preferences or to achieve increased market acceptance of Support, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and growth prospects would be harmed.. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, substantially all of our revenue and cash flows from sales of subscriptions to Zendesk Support. As such, the market acceptance of this product is critical to our success. Demand for our products, including Support, is affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as continued market acceptance of our products by customers for existing and new use cases, the timing of development and release of new products, features, and functionality introduced by our competitors, technological change, and growth or contraction in our addressable market. We expect that an increasing focus on the customer experience and the growth of various communications channels will profoundly impact the market for customer support software and blur distinctions between traditionally separate systems for customer support, marketing automation, and customer relationship management, enabling new competitors to emerge. If we are unable to meet customer demands to improve relationships between organizations and their customers through products designed to address all these needs or otherwise achieve more widespread market acceptance of our products, including Support, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and growth prospects will be adversely affected.. 11. Table of Contents. We have a history of losses and we expect our revenue growth rate to decline. As our costs increase, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to achieve and sustain our profitability.. We have incurred net losses in each year since our inception, including net losses of $26.6 million and $24.5 million in  the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and net losses of $110.6 million and $103.8 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit of $430.6 million as of  December 31, 2017. For the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, our revenue was $123.4 million and $88.6 million, respectively, representing a 39% growth rate. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, our revenue was $430.5 million and $312.0 million, respectively, representing a 38% growth rate. We expect that our revenue growth rate will decline over time. We may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to achieve and sustain profitability as we also expect our costs to increase in future periods. We expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources on:. • development of our family of products, including investments in our research and development team, the development or acquisition of new products, features, and functionality, and improvements to the scalability, availability, and security of our products;. • our technology infrastructure, including investments in our hosting capabilities, enhancements to our network operations and infrastructure, and hiring of additional employees for our operations team;. • sales and marketing, including an expansion of our direct sales organization;. • additional international expansion in an effort to increase our customer base and sales; and. • general administration, including legal, accounting, and other expenses related to being a public company.. These investments may not result in increased revenue or growth of our business. If we fail to continue to grow our revenue, our operating results and business would be harmed.. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to predict future operating results.. We were incorporated and launched our first product in 2007. As a result of our limited operating history, our ability to accurately forecast our future operating results is limited and subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to plan for and model future growth. Our historical revenue growth has been inconsistent, and should not be considered indicative of our future performance. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, such as the risks and uncertainties described herein. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties, which we use to plan our business, are incorrect or change due to changes in our markets, or if we do not address these risks and uncertainties successfully, our operating and financial results could differ materially from our expectations, and our business could suffer.. The market in which we participate is intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed.. The market for customer service solutions is fragmented, rapidly evolving, and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. With respect to larger organizations and enterprises seeking to deploy a customer service software system, we have many competitors that are larger than us and which have greater name recognition, much longer operating histories, more established customer relationships, larger marketing budgets, and significantly greater resources than we do. Among the small to medium sized organizations that make up a large proportion of our customers, we often compete with general use computer applications and other tools, which these organizations use to provide support and which can be deployed for little or no cost. These include shared accounts for email communication, phone banks for voice communication, and pen and paper, text editors, and spreadsheets for tracking and management.. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, or customer requirements. With the introduction of new technologies, the evolution of our products, and new market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. Pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses, or the failure of our products to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any of which could harm our business.. 12. Table of Contents. We face competition from in-house software systems, large integrated systems vendors, and smaller companies offering alternative SaaS applications. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services they offer. For larger organizations, we compete with customer software systems and large enterprise software vendors such as salesforce.com, Inc., Oracle Corporation,  Microsoft Corporation and ServiceNow, Inc., each of which can bundle competing products and services with other software offerings, or offer them at a low price as part of a larger sale. In addition, we compete with a number of other SaaS providers with focused applications competitive to one or more of our products, including applications developed by Freshworks, Inc. and desk.com (a salesforce.com service) that compete with Support. Further, other established SaaS providers not currently focused on the functionality that our products provide may expand their services to compete with us. Many of our current and potential competitors have established marketing relationships, access to larger customer bases, pre-existing customer relationships, and major distribution agreements with consultants, system integrators, and resellers. Additionally, some existing and potential customers, particularly large organizations, have elected, and may in the future elect, to develop their own internal customer support software system. Certain of our competitors have partnered with, or have acquired, and may in the future partner with or acquire, other competitors to offer services, leveraging their collective competitive positions, which makes, or would make, it more difficult for us to compete with them. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors or retain existing customers, which would harm our business.. Our business depends substantially on our customers renewing their subscriptions, expanding the use of their subscriptions, and purchasing subscriptions for additional products from us. Any decline in our customer retention or expansion, or any failure by us to sell subscriptions to additional products to existing customers, would harm our future operating results.. In order for us to maintain or improve our operating results, it is important that our customers renew their subscriptions when the initial contract term expires, and add additional authorized agents to their customer accounts. Even though the majority of our revenue is derived from subscriptions to our products that have terms longer than one month, a significant portion of the subscriptions to our products have monthly terms. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions, and our customers may not renew subscriptions with a similar contract period or with the same or a greater number of agents. Some of our customers have elected not to renew their agreements with us and we do not have enough history to accurately predict long-term customer retention. Additionally, our future success is also substantially dependent on our ability to expand our existing customers' use of our products by expanding the number of products to which such customers subscribe. This may require increasingly sophisticated and costly sales efforts and may not result in additional sales.. Our customer retention and our ability to sell additional products to existing customers may be impacted by a number of factors, including our customers' satisfaction with our products, our product support, our prices, the prices of competing software systems, mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base, the effects of global economic conditions, or reductions in our customers' spending levels. In addition, the rate at which our existing customers purchase subscriptions to additional products depends on a number of factors, including the perceived need for additional products to build better relationships between organizations and their customers. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions, renew on less favorable terms, fail to add more agents, or fail to purchase subscriptions to additional products, our revenue may decline, and we may not realize improved operating results from our customer base.. We may not be able to successfully introduce and market new products or integrate such new products into our infrastructure, which could negatively impact our future sales and results of operations.. Our ability to successfully introduce and market new products, as well as integrate such new products into a shared services infrastructure, is unproven. Because we have a limited operating history and the market for our products, including newly acquired or developed products, is rapidly evolving, it is difficult for us to predict our operating results, particularly with respect to any new products that we may introduce. Our business depends in part on our ability to identify future products that both complement our existing products and respond to our customers' needs. Our customers also expect that new products will integrate with existing products that we currently offer. If we are not able to successfully introduce and commercialize new products that respond to customers' needs, or to fully integrate such new products into our infrastructure, our business could be harmed. Furthermore, the success of our new products will depend on market demand, and there is a risk that new products and services we introduce will not deliver expected results, which could negatively impact our future sales and results of operations.. 13. Table of Contents. If we are not able to develop enhancements to our products or introduce new products and services that achieve market acceptance and that keep pace with technological developments, our business would be harmed.. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenue from existing customers depends in large part on our ability to enhance and improve our products and to introduce new products and services. In order to grow our business, we must research and develop products and services that reflect the changing nature of customer service, and expand beyond customer service to other areas of improving relationships between organizations and their customers. In fiscal years ending 2017 and 2016, our research and development expenses were 27% and 29% of our revenue, respectively. If we do not spend our research and development budget efficiently or effectively on compelling innovation and technologies, our operating results may be harmed and we may not realize the expected benefits of our strategy.. The success of any enhancement to our products depends on several factors, including timely completion, adequate quality testing, and market acceptance. Any new product or service that we develop may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner, may contain defects, or may not achieve the market acceptance necessary to generate sufficient revenue. If we are unable to successfully develop new products or services, enhance our existing products to meet customer requirements, or otherwise gain market acceptance, our business and operating results will be harmed.. Because our products are available over the Internet, we need to continuously modify and enhance them to keep pace with changes in Internet-related hardware, software, communications, and database technologies and standards. If we are unable to respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to these rapid technological developments and changes in standards, our products may become less marketable, less competitive, or obsolete, and our operating results will be harmed.. We employ a pricing model that subjects us to various challenges that could make it difficult for us to derive sufficient value from our customers.. We generally charge our customers for their use of our products based on the number of users they enable as \"agents\" to provide customer service under their customer account, as well as the features and functionality enabled. The features and functionality we provide within our products enable our customers to promote customer self-service and otherwise efficiently and cost-effectively address product support requests without the need for substantial human interaction. As a result of these features, customer agent staffing requirements may be minimized and our revenue may be adversely impacted. Additionally, we generally require a separate subscription to enable the functionality of each of our products. We do not know whether our current or potential customers or the market in general will accept this pricing model going forward and, if it fails to gain acceptance, our business and results of operations could be harmed.. Our terms of service generally prohibit the sharing of user logins and passwords. These restrictions may be improperly circumvented or otherwise bypassed by certain users and, if they are, we may not be able to capture the full value of the use of our products. We license access and use of our products exclusively for our customers' internal use. If customers improperly resell or otherwise make our products available to their customers, it may cannibalize our sales or commoditize our products in the market. Additionally, if a customer that has received a volume discount from us offers our products to its customers in violation of our terms of service, we may experience price erosion and be unable to capture sufficient value from the use of our products by those customers.. While our terms of service provide us the ability to enforce our terms, our customers may resist or refuse to allow us to audit their usage, in which case we may have to pursue legal recourse to enforce our rights. Any such enforcement action would require us to spend money, distract management, and potentially adversely affect our relationship with our customers.. We do not have the history with our subscription or pricing models that we need to accurately predict optimal pricing necessary to attract new customers and retain existing customers.. We have limited experience with respect to determining the optimal prices for our products and, as a result, we have in the past and expect in the future that we will need to change our pricing model from time to time. As the market for our products matures, or as new competitors introduce new products or services that compete with ours, we may be unable to attract new customers at the same price or based on the same pricing models as we have used historically. Pricing decisions may also impact the mix of adoption among our subscription plans and negatively impact our overall revenue. Moreover, larger organizations may demand substantial price concessions. As a result, in the future we may be required to reduce our prices or develop new pricing models, which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin, profitability, financial position, and cash flow.. 14. Table of Contents. If we fail to effectively manage our growth and organizational change in a manner that preserves the key aspects of our culture, our business and operating results could be harmed.. We have experienced and may continue to experience rapid growth and organizational change, which has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management, operational, and financial resources. For example, our headcount has grown from approximately 1,630 employees as of December 31, 2016 to approximately 2,060 employees as of December 31, 2017. In addition, we have established subsidiaries in Denmark, the United Kingdom, Australia, Ireland, Japan, the Philippines, Brazil, Germany, India, and Mexico since our inception in 2007, and, as a result of acquisitions, we also have subsidiaries in Singapore and France. We may continue to expand our international operations into other countries in the future. We have also experienced significant growth in the number of customers, end users, transactions, and data that our products support. Finally, our organizational structure is becoming more complex and we may need to scale and adapt our operational, financial, and management controls, as well as our reporting systems and procedures, to manage this complexity. We will require significant capital expenditures and the allocation of valuable management resources to grow and change in these areas without undermining our corporate culture of rapid innovation, simplicity in design, and attention to customer satisfaction that has been critical to our growth so far. If we fail to manage our anticipated growth and change in a manner that preserves the key aspects of our culture, the quality of our products and services may suffer, which could negatively affect our brand and reputation and harm our ability to retain and attract customers.. If the market for SaaS business software applications develops more slowly than we expect or declines, our business would be adversely affected.. The market for SaaS business software applications is less mature than the market for on-premise business software applications, and the adoption rate of SaaS business software applications may be slower among subscribers in industries with heightened data security interests or business practices requiring highly customizable application software. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the widespread adoption of SaaS business applications in general, and of SaaS customer service applications in particular. Many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate traditional on-premise business software applications into their businesses, and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to SaaS applications. It is difficult to predict customer adoption rates and demand for our products, the future growth rate and size of the SaaS business applications market, or the entry of competitive applications. The expansion of the SaaS business applications market depends on a number of factors, including the cost, performance, and perceived value associated with SaaS, as well as the ability of SaaS providers to address data security and privacy concerns. Additionally, government agencies have adopted, or may adopt, laws and regulations regarding the collection, use, and transfer of personal information obtained from consumers and other individuals, or may seek to access information on our platform, either of which may reduce the overall demand for our products. If we or other SaaS providers experience data security incidents, loss of customer data, disruptions in delivery, or other problems, the market for SaaS business applications, including our products, may be negatively affected. If SaaS business applications do not continue to achieve market acceptance, if there is a reduction in demand for SaaS business applications caused by a lack of customer acceptance, or if there are technological challenges, weakening economic conditions, data security or privacy concerns, governmental regulation, competing technologies and products, or decreases in information technology spending, it would result in decreased revenue and our business would be adversely affected.. 15. Table of Contents. If our network or computer systems are breached or unauthorized access to customer data is otherwise obtained, our products may be perceived as insecure, we may lose existing customers or fail to attract new customers, and we may incur significant liabilities.. Use of our products involves the storage, transmission, and processing of our customers' proprietary data, including personal or identifying information regarding their customers or employees. Unauthorized access to or security breaches of our products could result in the loss of data, loss of intellectual property or trade secrets, loss of business, severe reputational damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence, regulatory investigations and orders, litigation, or indemnity obligations. Furthermore, if our network or computer systems are breached or unauthorized access to customer data is otherwise obtained, we may be held responsible for damages for contract breach, penalties for violation of applicable laws, regulations, or contractual obligations, and significant costs for remediation that may include liability for stolen assets or information and repair of system damage that may have been caused, incentives offered to customers or other business partners in an effort to maintain business relationships after a breach, and other liabilities. Notifications related to a security breach regarding or pertaining to any of such service providers could impact our reputation, harm customer confidence, hurt our sales and expansion into new markets, or cause us to lose existing customers. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant expenses to prevent, investigate, and remediate security breaches and vulnerabilities, including deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees, and engaging third-party experts and consultants. Our errors and omissions insurance coverage covering certain security and privacy damages and claim expenses may not be sufficient to compensate for all liability.. We have previously experienced significant breaches and identified significant vulnerabilities of our security measures and the security measures deployed by third-party vendors upon which we rely, and our products are at risk for future breaches as a result of third-party action, employee, vendor, or contractor error, malfeasance, or other factors.. New products and services, including newly acquired products and services, may rely on systems, networks, personnel, equipment, and vendors that may initially be different from those utilized in connection with our existing products and may not have been subject to the same security reviews and assessments as those used to provide our existing products. Any failure to complete these security reviews and assessments and to implement improvements to the security measures deployed to protect our new products in a timely manner could increase our risk of a security breach with respect to these products, which would harm our reputation and our business as a whole.. Because the techniques used and vulnerabilities exploited to obtain unauthorized access to or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or vulnerabilities or to implement adequate preventative measures. We may also experience security breaches that may remain undetected for an extended period.. Because data security is a critical competitive factor in our industry, we make numerous statements in our privacy policies, terms of service and data processing agreements, through our certifications to privacy standards, and in our marketing materials, providing assurances about the security of our products, including detailed descriptions of security measures we employ. Should any of these statements be untrue or become untrue, even due to circumstances beyond our reasonable control, we may face claims of misrepresentation or deceptiveness by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, state and foreign regulators, and private litigants.. 16. Table of Contents. Interruptions or performance problems associated with our technology and infrastructure may adversely affect our business and operating results.. Our continued growth depends in part on the ability of our existing and potential customers to access our products at any time and within an acceptable amount of time. Our products are proprietary, and we rely on the expertise of members of our engineering, operations, and software development teams for their continued performance. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, disruptions, outages, and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, introductions of new functionality, human or software errors, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of users simultaneously accessing our products, distributed denial of service attacks, or other security related incidents. In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. It may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve our performance, especially during peak usage times and as our products become more complex and our user traffic increases. If any of our products are unavailable or if our users are unable to access our products within a reasonable amount of time or at all, our business would be negatively affected. In addition, a significant portion of our infrastructure does not currently support the mirroring of data. Therefore, in the event of any of the factors described above, or certain other failures of our infrastructure, customer data may be permanently lost. Moreover, some of our customer agreements and certain subscription plans include performance guarantees and service level standards that obligate us to provide credits or termination rights in the event of a significant disruption in our services. To the extent that we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems as needed, and continually develop our technology and network architecture to accommodate actual and anticipated changes in technology, our business and operating results may be adversely affected.. Real or perceived errors, failures, or bugs in our products could adversely affect our operating results and growth prospects.. Because our products are complex, undetected errors, failures, vulnerabilities, or bugs may occur, especially when updates are deployed. Our products are often used in connection with large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software, equipment, and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures of our products or other aspects of the computing environment into which they are deployed. In addition, deployment of our products into complicated, large-scale computing environments may expose undetected errors, failures, vulnerabilities, or bugs in our products. We have discovered, and expect to continue to discover, software errors, failures, vulnerabilities, and bugs in our products, some of which have or may only be discovered and remediated after deployment to customers. Real or perceived errors, failures, vulnerabilities, or bugs in our products could result in negative publicity, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position, or claims by customers for losses sustained by them. In such an event, we may be required, or may choose, for customer relations or other reasons, to expend additional resources in order to help correct the problem.. Incorrect or improper implementation or use of our products could result in customer dissatisfaction and negatively affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and growth prospects.. Our products are deployed in a wide variety of technology environments and into a broad range of complex workflows. Increasingly, our products have been, and will continue to be, integrated into large-scale, complex technology environments and specialized use cases, and we believe our future success will depend on our ability to increase use of our products in such deployments. We often assist our customers in implementing our products, but many customers attempt to implement deployments, including complex deployments, themselves. If we or our customers are unable to implement our products successfully, or are unable to do so in a timely manner, customer perceptions of our products and of our company may be impaired, our reputation and brand may suffer, and customers may choose not to renew or expand the use of our products.. Our customers and third-party partners may need training in the proper use of our products to maximize their potential. If our products are not implemented or used correctly or as intended, inadequate performance may result. Because our customers rely on our products to manage a wide range of operations and to drive a number of their internal processes, the incorrect or improper implementation or use of our products, our failure to train customers on how to efficiently and effectively use our products, or our failure to provide adequate product support to our customers, may result in negative publicity or legal claims against us. Also, as we continue to expand our customer base, any failure by us to properly provide these services will likely result in lost opportunities for additional subscriptions to our products.. 17. Table of Contents. Any failure to offer high-quality product support or customer success initiatives may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and our financial results.. In deploying and using our products, our customers depend on our product support team and customer success organization to resolve complex technical and operational issues. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for product support. We also may be unable to modify the nature, scope, and delivery of our product support to compete with changes in product support services provided by our competitors. Increased customer demand for product support, without corresponding revenue, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. Additionally, we may be unable to develop our customer success organization to continue to support the increasing level of complexity that larger enterprise customers require while maintaining the same level of engagement across all customers.. Our sales are highly dependent on our business reputation and on positive recommendations from our existing customers. Any failure to maintain high-quality product support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality product support, or maintain a high-complexity customer success organization, could adversely affect our reputation, our ability to sell our products to existing and prospective customers, and our business, operating results, and financial position.. We depend on our executive officers and other key employees and the loss of one or more of these employees or an inability to attract and retain highly skilled employees could adversely affect our business.. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key employees. We rely on our leadership team and on individual contributors in the areas of research and development, operations, security, sales, marketing, support, and general and administrative functions. From time to time, there may be changes in our executive management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives, which could disrupt our business.. We do not have employment agreements with our executive officers or other key personnel that require them to continue to work for us for any specified period of time and, therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of one or more of our executive officers, especially our Chief Executive Officer, or other key employees could have an adverse effect on our business.. In addition, to execute on our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters is located, and in other locations where we maintain offices, is intense, especially for engineers experienced in designing and developing software and SaaS applications and experienced sales professionals. We have, from time to time, experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. For example, certain domestic immigration laws restrict or limit our ability to recruit internationally. Any changes to U.S. immigration policies that restrain the flow of technical and professional talent may inhibit our ability to recruit and retain highly qualified employees. Additionally, many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. If we hire employees from competitors or other companies, their former employers may attempt to assert that these employees or we have breached their legal obligations, resulting in a diversion of our time and resources. In addition, job candidates and existing employees often consider the value of the equity awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the perceived or actual value of our equity awards declines, it may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled employees. If we fail to attract new personnel, or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be adversely affected.. We are highly dependent upon free trials of our products and other inbound lead generation strategies to drive our sales and revenue. If these strategies fail to continue to generate sales opportunities or do not convert into paying customers, our business and results of operations would be harmed.. We are dependent upon our marketing strategy of offering free trials of our products and other inbound lead generation strategies to generate sales opportunities. These strategies may not be successful in continuing to generate sufficient sales opportunities necessary to increase our revenue. Many early users never convert from the trial version of a product to a paid version of such product. Further, we often depend on individuals within an organization who initiate the trial versions of our products being able to convince decision makers within their organization to convert to a paid version. Many of these organizations have complex and multi-layered purchasing requirements. To the extent that these users do not become, or are unable to convince others to become, paying customers, we will not realize the intended benefits of this marketing strategy and our ability to grow our revenue will be adversely affected.. 18. Table of Contents. We face a number of risks in our strategy to increasingly target larger organizations for sales of our products and, if we do not manage these efforts effectively, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. As we target more of our sales efforts to larger organizations, we expect to incur higher costs and longer sales cycles and we may be less effective at predicting when we will complete these sales. In this market segment, the decision to subscribe to one or more of our products may require the approval of a greater number of technical personnel and management levels within a potential customer's organization than we have historically encountered, and if so, these types of sales would require us to invest more time educating these potential customers on the benefits of our products. In addition, larger organizations may demand more features and integration services. We have limited experience in developing and managing sales channels and distribution arrangements for larger organizations. As a result of these factors, these sales opportunities may require us to devote greater research and development, sales, product support, and professional services resources to individual customers, resulting in increased costs and reduced profitability, and would likely lengthen our typical sales cycle, which could strain our resources. Moreover, these transactions may require us to delay recognizing the associated revenue we derive from these customers until any technical or implementation requirements have been met, and larger customers may demand discounts to the subscription prices they pay for our products. Furthermore, because we have limited experience selling to larger organizations, our investment in marketing our products to these potential customers may not be successful, which could harm our results of operations and our overall ability to grow our customer base. Following sales to larger organizations, we may have fewer opportunities to expand usage of our products or to sell additional functionality, and we may experience increased subscription terminations as compared to our experience with smaller organizations, any of which could harm our results of operations.. Failure to effectively expand our sales capabilities could harm our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our products.. Increasing our customer base and achieving broader market acceptance of our products will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to effectively expand our sales and marketing operations and activities. We are substantially dependent on our direct sales force to obtain certain of our new customers, including larger organizations.  We plan to continue to expand our direct sales force both domestically and internationally to increase our sales capacity. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, our sales and marketing organization increased by approximately 180 employees to approximately 660 employees.  There is significant competition for experienced sales and marketing professionals with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth in the future will depend, in part, on our success in recruiting, training, and retaining a sufficient number of experienced sales and marketing professionals. New hires require significant training and time before they achieve full productivity, particularly in new sales segments and territories. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as we anticipate as quickly as we expect, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we do business. We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, our sales will increase as we expand our sales and marketing functions or how long it will take for new personnel to become productive. Our business will be harmed if our sales and marketing efforts do not generate a significant increase in revenue.. Our financial results may fluctuate due to increasing variability in our sales cycles.. We plan our expenses based on certain assumptions about the length and variability of our sales cycle. These assumptions are based upon historical trends for sales cycles and conversion rates associated with our existing customers, many of whom to date have been small to medium-sized organizations that make purchasing decisions with limited interaction with our sales or other personnel. As we continue to become more dependent on sales to larger organizations, we expect our sales cycles to lengthen and become less predictable. This may adversely affect our financial results. Factors that may influence the length and variability of our sales cycle include:. • the need to educate prospective customers about the uses and benefits of our products;. • the discretionary nature of purchasing and budget cycles and decisions;. • the competitive nature of evaluation and purchasing processes;. • announcements or planned introductions of new products, features, or functionality by us or our competitors; and. • lengthy purchasing approval processes.. An increasing dependence on sales to larger organizations may increase the variability of our financial results. If we are unable to close one or more expected significant transactions with these customers in a particular period, or if an expected transaction is delayed until a subsequent period, our operating results for that period, and for any future periods in which revenue from such transaction would otherwise have been recognized, may be adversely affected.. 19. Table of Contents. Our quarterly results may fluctuate for various other reasons, and if we fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, our stock price and the value of an investment in our common stock could decline substantially.. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of other factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly financial results fall below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts who follow our stock, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Some of the important factors that may cause our revenue, operating results, and cash flows to fluctuate from quarter to quarter include:. • our ability to attract new customers, retain and increase sales to existing customers, and satisfy our customers' requirements;. • the number of new employees added to our company in a given period;. • the rate of expansion and productivity of our sales force;. • changes in our or our competitors' pricing policies;. • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the operations and expansion of our business;. • new products, features, or functionalities introduced by our competitors;. • increasing efforts by our customers to develop native applications as a substitute for our own;. • significant security breaches, technical difficulties, or service interruptions to our products;. • the timing of customer payments and payment defaults by customers;. • general economic conditions that may adversely affect either our customers' ability or willingness to purchase additional subscriptions, delay a prospective customer's purchasing decision, reduce the value of new subscription contracts, or affect customer retention;. • changes in the relative and absolute levels of professional services we provide;. • changes in foreign currency exchange rates;. • extraordinary expenses such as litigation or other dispute-related settlement payments;. • the impact of new accounting pronouncements; and. • the timing of the grant or vesting of equity awards to employees.. Many of these factors are outside of our control, and the occurrence of one or more of them might cause our revenue, operating results, and cash flows to vary widely. As such, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue, operating results, and cash flows may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance.. Unfavorable conditions in our industry or the global economy or reductions in information technology spending could limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our operating results.. Our operating results may vary based on the impact of changes in our industry or the global economy on us or our customers. The revenue growth and potential profitability of our business depend on demand for business software applications and services generally and for customer service systems in particular. In addition, our revenue is dependent on the number of users of our products, which in turn is influenced by the employment and hiring patterns of our customers. To the extent that weak economic conditions cause our customers and prospective customers to freeze or reduce their hiring for personnel providing service and support, demand for our products may be negatively affected. Historically, during economic downturns there have been reductions in spending on information technology and customer service systems as well as pressure for extended billing terms and other financial concessions. If economic conditions deteriorate, our customers and prospective customers may elect to decrease their information technology and customer service budgets, which would limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our operating results.. 20. Table of Contents. If we are unable to develop and maintain successful relationships with channel partners, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected.. To date, we have been primarily dependent on our direct sales force to sell subscriptions to our products. Although we have developed certain channel partners, such as referral partners, resellers, and integration partners, these channels have resulted in limited revenue to date. We believe identifying, developing, and maintaining strategic relationships with additional channel partners are important to driving revenue growth for our company and will continue to dedicate resources to those efforts. Our agreements with our existing channel partners are non-exclusive, meaning our channel partners may offer customers the products of several different companies, including products that compete with ours. They may also cease marketing our products with limited or no notice and with little or no penalty. We expect that any additional channel partners we identify and develop will be similarly non-exclusive and not bound by any requirement to continue to market our products. If we fail to identify additional channel partners, in a timely and cost-effective manner, or at all, or are unable to assist our current and future channel partners in independently selling and deploying our products, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Additionally, customer retention and expansion attributable to customers acquired through our channel partners may differ significantly from customers acquired through our direct sales efforts. If our channel partners do not effectively market and sell our products, or fail to meet the needs of our customers, our reputation and ability to grow our business may also be adversely affected.. Sales by channel partners are more likely than direct sales to involve collectibility concerns. In particular sales by our channel partners into developing markets, and accordingly, variations in the mix between revenue attributable to sales by channel partners and revenue attributable to direct sales, may result in fluctuations in our operating results.. If we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected.. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our reputation as a differentiated and category-defining company in customer service is critical to our relationships with our existing customers and to our ability to attract new customers. The successful promotion of our brand attributes will depend on a number of factors, including our marketing efforts, our ability to continue to develop high-quality software, and our ability to successfully differentiate our products from competitive products and services. We are highly dependent upon \"consumer\" tactics, including an emphasis on simplicity and a sense of humor in our advertising, to build our brand and develop brand loyalty. Additionally, we will continue to spend significant energy to develop branding to retain and increase brand recognition with our customers who are larger enterprises. We do not have sufficient history to know if any of our brand promotion activities will ultimately be successful or yield increased revenue relative to traditional enterprise software marketing strategies. In addition, independent industry analysts often provide reviews of our products, as well as products and services offered by our competitors, and perception of our products in the marketplace may be significantly influenced by these reviews. If these reviews are negative, or less positive as compared to those of our competitors' products and services, our brand may be adversely affected. It may also be difficult to maintain and enhance our brand, specifically following the launch of our updated corporate brand, in connection with sales through channel or strategic partners.. The promotion of our brand requires us to make substantial expenditures, and we anticipate that these expenditures will continue to increase, as our market becomes more competitive, as we expand into new markets, and as more sales are generated through our channel partners. To the extent that these activities yield increased revenue, this revenue may not offset the increased expenses we incur. If we do not successfully maintain and enhance our brand, our business may not grow, we may have reduced pricing power relative to competitors, and we could lose customers or fail to attract potential customers, all of which would adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.. In the three months and fiscal years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we derived 47% and 46% of our revenue from customers located outside of the United States, respectively. We are continuing to expand our international operations as part of our growth strategy. We currently have sales personnel and sales and product support operations in certain countries across North America, Europe, Australia, Asia, and South America. To date a very limited portion of our sales has been driven by resellers or other channel partners. We believe our ability to convince new customers to subscribe to our products or to convince existing customers to renew or expand their use of our products is directly correlated to the level of engagement we obtain with the customer. To the extent we are unable to effectively engage with non-U.S. customers due to our limited sales force capacity and limited channel partners, we may be unable to effectively grow in international markets.. 21. Table of Contents. Our international operations subject us to a variety of additional risks and challenges, including:. • increased management, travel, infrastructure, and legal compliance costs associated with having multiple international operations;. • longer payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing contracts, collecting accounts receivable, or satisfying revenue recognition criteria, especially in emerging markets;. • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities;. • requirements or preferences for domestic products;. • differing technical standards, existing or future regulatory and certification requirements and required features and functionality;. • economic conditions in each country or region and general economic uncertainty around the world;. • compliance with foreign privacy and security laws and regulations and the risks and costs of non-compliance;. • compliance with laws and regulations for foreign operations, including anti-bribery laws (such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, the U.S. Travel Act, and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010), import and export controls laws, tariffs, trade barriers, economic sanctions, and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell our products in certain foreign markets, and the risks and costs of non-compliance;. • heightened risks of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact our financial results and result in restatements of our consolidated financial statements;. • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the related effect on our operating results;. • difficulties in repatriating or transferring funds from or converting currencies in certain countries;. • communication and integration problems related to entering new markets with different languages, cultures, and political systems;. • differing labor standards, including restrictions related to, and the increased cost of, terminating employees in some countries;. • the need for localized software and licensing programs;. • the need for localized language support;. • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries and practical difficulties of enforcing rights abroad; and. • compliance with the laws of numerous foreign tax jurisdictions, including withholding obligations, and overlapping of different tax regimes.. Any of these risks could adversely affect our international operations, reduce our international revenue, or increase our operating costs, adversely affecting our business, operating results, financial condition, and growth prospects.. Compliance with laws and regulations applicable to our international operations substantially increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. We may be unable to keep current with new or revised government requirements as they change from time to time. Failure to comply with these regulations could have adverse effects on our business. Additionally, in many foreign countries it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or U.S. or other regulations applicable to us. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and policies, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors, partners, and agents will comply with these laws and policies. Violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, partners, or agents could result in delays in revenue recognition, financial reporting misstatements, enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, fines, civil and criminal penalties, damages, injunctions, other collateral consequences, or the prohibition of the importation or exportation of our products and services and could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets or subject us to liability if we violate the controls.. We are subject to U.S. export controls, and we incorporate encryption technology into our products that is enabled through mobile applications and other software we may be deemed to export. These encryption products and the underlying technology may be exported outside of the U.S. only with the required export authorizations, including by license, a license exception, or other appropriate government authorizations, including the filing of an encryption registration. We previously deployed mobile applications prior to obtaining the required export authorizations. Accordingly, we have not fully complied with applicable encryption controls in U.S. export administration regulations.. 22. Table of Contents. Furthermore, U.S. export controls laws and economic sanctions prohibit the shipment of certain products and services to countries, governments, territories, and persons targeted by U.S. sanctions. While we are currently taking precautions to prevent our products from being enabled by persons targeted by U.S. sanctions, including IP blocking and periodic customer screening against U.S. government lists of prohibited persons, such measures may be circumvented. Given the technical limitations in developing measures that will prevent access to internet based services from particular geographies or by particular individuals, we have previously identified and expect we will continue to identify customer accounts for our products that we suspect originate from countries which are subject to U.S. embargoes.. We are aware that trials of and subscriptions to our products have been initiated by persons and organizations in countries that are the subject of U.S. embargoes. Our provision of services in these instances was likely in violation of U.S. export controls and sanctions laws. We have terminated the accounts of such organizations as we have become aware of them, implemented certain measures designed to prevent future unauthorized access by such persons and organizations, and filed voluntary self disclosures with the U.S. Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security, or BIS, and the U.S. Department of Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, concerning prior potential violations. With respect to these matters, each of BIS and OFAC completed its investigations, and no monetary penalties or other sanctions were imposed.. If we are found to be in violation of U.S. sanctions or export controls laws, it could result in fines or penalties for us and for individuals, including civil penalties of approximately $300,000 or twice the value of the transaction, whichever is greater, per violation, and in the event of conviction for a criminal violation, fines of up to $1 million and possible incarceration for responsible employees and managers for willful and knowing violations. Each instance in which we provide services through our products or in which unlicensed encryption functionality software is downloaded may constitute a separate violation of these laws.. If our channel partners fail to obtain appropriate import, export, or re-export licenses or permits, we may also be adversely affected, through reputational harm as well as other negative consequences, including government investigations and penalties. We presently incorporate sanctions compliance requirements in our channel partner agreements for our products. Complying with export controls and sanctions regulations for a particular sale may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Failure to comply with exports control and sanctions regulations for a particular sale may expose us to government investigations and penalties, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including import permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to offer or distribute our products or could limit our customers' ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or future changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets or prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products globally. Any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions, or related legislation, or change in the countries, governments, persons, or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business operations and financial results.. We recognize revenue over the term of our customer contracts. Consequently, downturns or upturns in new sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results and may be difficult to discern.. We generally recognize subscription revenue from customers ratably over the terms of their contracts and a majority of our revenue is derived from subscriptions that have terms longer than one month. As a result, a portion of the revenue we report in each quarter is derived from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscriptions entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions with terms that are longer than one month in any single quarter may have a small impact on our revenue results for that quarter. However, such a decline will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our products, and potential changes in our pricing policies or rate of expansion or retention, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. We may also be unable to reduce our cost structure in line with a significant deterioration in sales. In addition, because we believe a substantial percentage of subscriptions to our products are shorter than many comparable SaaS companies and because we have many variations of billing cycles, our deferred revenue may be a less meaningful indicator of our future financial results as compared to other SaaS companies. A significant majority of our costs are expensed as incurred, while revenue is recognized over the life of the agreement with the applicable customer. As a result, increased growth in the number of our customers could continue to result in our recognition of more costs than revenue in the earlier periods of the terms of our agreements. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term.. 23. Table of Contents. Certain of our operating results and financial metrics may be difficult to predict as a result of seasonality.. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience in the future, seasonality in our business, and our operating results and financial condition may be affected by such trends in the future. We generally experience seasonal fluctuations in demand for our products and services, and believe that our quarterly sales are affected by industry buying patterns. For example, we typically have customers who add flexible agents when they need more capacity during busy periods, especially in the fourth quarter, and then subsequently scale back in the first quarter of the following year. We believe that the seasonal trends that we have experienced in the past may continue for the foreseeable future, particularly as we expand our sales to larger enterprises. Additionally, since a large percentage of our subscriptions are monthly, customers are able to increase and decrease the number of authorized agents for whom they require a subscription quickly and easily, thereby potentially increasing the impact of seasonality on our revenue. Seasonality within our business may be reflected to a much lesser extent, and sometimes may not be immediately apparent, in our revenue, due to the fact that we recognize subscription revenue over the term of our agreement. To the extent we experience this seasonality, it may cause fluctuations in our operating results and financial metrics, and make forecasting our future operating results and financial metrics difficult. Additionally, we do not have sufficient experience in selling certain of our products to determine if demand for these services are or will be subject to material seasonality.. Our ongoing and planned expenditures on third-party managed hosting services, investments in self-managed colocation data centers, and expenditures on transitioning our services and customers fully to third-party managed hosting services, are expensive and complex, have resulted, and will result, in a negative impact on our cash flows, and may negatively impact our financial results.. We have made and will continue to make substantial expenditures for third-party managed hosting services and investments in our self-managed colocation data centers to support our growth and provide enhanced levels of service to our customers. We recently decreased the amount of capital expenditures on hosting equipment for use in our self-managed colocation data centers as we transition to greater dependence on third-party managed hosting services, but expect to continue to incur significant expense to operate and maintain our self-managed colocation data centers. We have employed a hybrid hosting model in which we utilize managed hosting services, where a third party manages most aspects of our hosting operations, and self-managed colocation data centers, where we have more direct control over the hosting infrastructure and its operation. This has and may continue to have a negative impact on our cash flows and gross profit. If costs associated with third-party managed hosting services utilized to support our growth are greater than expected or if we are required to make larger investments in our self-managed colocation data centers than we anticipated, the negative impact on our operating results would likely exceed our initial expectations. Furthermore, if we determine to no longer utilize our self-managed colocation data centers, we may be forced to accelerate expense recognition as a result of the shorter estimated life of such assets.. We plan to continue to invest significant resources in connection with transitioning our customers and services infrastructure to third-party managed hosting services and may encounter obstacles in completing the transition. Given that we will increasingly become more reliant on third-party managed hosting services, any significant disruption of or interference in our use of such services will negatively impact our operations and customer satisfaction. In addition, third-party managed hosting services may take actions beyond our control that could seriously harm our business, including:. •discontinuing or limiting our access to the service;. • increasing price terms, including establishing more favorable relationships or pricing terms with one or more of our competitors;. •terminating or seeking to terminate the contractual relationship altogether; or. • modifying or interpreting its terms of service or other policies in a manner that impacts our ability to run our businesses and operations.. Our business and growth depend in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties, including technology partners, channel partners, and professional services partners.. We depend on, and anticipate that we will continue to depend on, various third-party relationships in order to sustain and grow our business. We are highly dependent upon third-party technology partners for certain critical features and functionality of our platform. For example, the features available on Zendesk Talk are highly dependent on our technology integration with Twilio, Inc. Failure of this or any other technology provider to maintain, support, or secure its technology platforms in general, and our integrations in particular, or errors or defects in its technology, could materially and adversely impact our relationship with our customers, damage our reputation and brand, and harm our business and operating results. Any loss of the right to use any of this hardware or software could result in delays or difficulties in our ability to provide our products until equivalent technology is either developed by us or, if available, identified, obtained, and integrated.. 24. Table of Contents. For deployments of our products into complex technology environments and workflows, we are highly dependent on third-party implementation consultants to provide professional services to our customers. The failure of these third-party consultants to perform their services adequately may disrupt or damage the relationship between us and our customers, damage our brand, and harm our business.. Identifying, negotiating, and documenting relationships with strategic third parties such as technology partners and implementation providers require significant time and resources. In addition, integrating third-party technology is complex, costly, and time-consuming. Our agreements with technology partners and implementation providers are typically limited in duration, non-exclusive, and do not prohibit them from working with our competitors or from offering competing services. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to third parties to favor their products or services or to prevent or reduce subscriptions to our products.. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with these strategic third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenue could be impaired and our operating results would suffer. Even if we are successful, we cannot assure you that these relationships will result in improved operating results.. If we fail to integrate our products with a variety of operating systems, software applications, and hardware that are developed by others, our products may become less marketable, less competitive, or obsolete, and our operating results would be harmed.. Our products must integrate with a variety of network, hardware, and software platforms, and we need to continuously modify and enhance our products to adapt to changes in cloud-enabled hardware, software, networking, browser, and database technologies. In particular, we have developed our products to be able to easily integrate with third-party SaaS applications, including the applications of software providers that compete with us, through the interaction of application platform interfaces, or APIs. To date, we have not typically relied on a long-term written contract to govern our relationship with these providers. Instead, we are typically subject to the standard terms and conditions for application developers of such providers, which govern the distribution, operation, and fees of such software systems, and which are subject to change by such providers from time to time. To the extent that we do not have long-term written contracts to govern our relationship with these providers, we rely on the fact that the providers of such software systems continue to allow us access to their APIs to enable these customer integrations. Our business may be harmed if any provider of such software systems:. • discontinues or limits our access to its APIs;. • modifies its terms of service or other policies, including fees charged to, or other restrictions on, us or other application developers;. • changes how customer information is accessed by us or our customers;. • establishes more favorable relationships with one or more of our competitors; or. • otherwise favors its own competitive offerings over ours.. We believe a significant component of our value proposition to customers is the ability to optimize and configure our products to communicate with these third-party SaaS applications through our respective APIs. If we are not permitted or able to integrate with these and other third-party SaaS applications in the future, demand for our products could be adversely impacted and business and operating results would be harmed. In addition, an increasing number of individuals within organizations are utilizing mobile devices to access the Internet and corporate resources and to conduct business. We have designed mobile applications to provide access to our products through these devices. If we cannot provide effective functionality through these mobile applications as required by organizations and individuals that widely use mobile devices, we may experience difficulty attracting and retaining customers. Failure of our products to operate effectively with future infrastructure platforms and technologies could also reduce the demand for our products, resulting in customer dissatisfaction and harm to our business. If we are unable to respond to changes in a cost-effective manner, our products may become less marketable, less competitive, or obsolete and our operating results may be negatively impacted.. We may acquire or invest in companies, which may divert our management's attention and result in additional dilution to our stockholders. We may be unable to integrate acquired businesses and technologies successfully or achieve the expected benefits of such acquisitions.. We may evaluate and consider potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, technologies, services, products, and other assets in the future. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses to expand our products and services, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution, discount pricing, or investments in other companies.. 25. Table of Contents. Any acquisition, investment, or business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel, or operations of the acquired companies, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us, their software is not easily adapted to work with our products, or we have difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business due to changes in ownership, management, or otherwise. Acquisitions may also disrupt our business, divert our resources, and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for development of our existing business. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment, or business relationship may not be realized or we may be exposed to unknown risks or liabilities.. Negotiating these transactions can be time-consuming, difficult, and expensive, and our ability to complete these transactions may often be subject to approvals that are beyond our control. Consequently, these transactions, even if announced, may not be completed. For one or more of these transactions, we may:. • issue additional equity securities that would dilute our existing stockholders;. • use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business;. • incur large charges or substantial liabilities;. • incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay;. • encounter difficulties retaining key employees of the acquired company or integrating diverse software codes or business cultures; and. • become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation, or deferred compensation charges.. Because our products can be used to collect and store personal information, domestic and international privacy and data security concerns could result in additional costs and liabilities to us or inhibit sales of our products.. Personal privacy and data security have become significant issues in the United States, Europe, and in many other jurisdictions where we offer our products. The regulatory framework for privacy and security issues worldwide is rapidly evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. Many federal, state, and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted, or are considering adopting, laws and regulations regarding the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information. In the United States, these include rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of federal agencies and state attorneys general and consumer protection agencies. Internationally, virtually every jurisdiction in which we operate has established its own data security and privacy legal framework with which we or our customers must comply, including the Directive, and data protection legislation of the individual member states subject to the Directive. In May 2018, the Directive will be replaced with the GDPR, which will impose additional obligations and risks upon our business. In many jurisdictions enforcement actions and consequences for non-compliance are also rising.. Failure to comply with data protection regulations may result in data protection authorities and other privacy regimes imposing additional obligations to obtain consent from data subjects by or on behalf of our customers. Additionally, the inability to guarantee compliance or otherwise provide acceptable privacy assurances may inhibit the sale and use of our software in the European Union and certain other markets, which could, were it to occur, harm our business and operating results.. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocates and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that either legally or contractually apply to us. Further, our customers may require us to comply with more stringent privacy and data security contractual requirements.. Because the interpretation and application of many privacy and data protection laws (including the GDPR), commercial frameworks, and standards are uncertain, it is possible that these laws, frameworks, and standards may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing data management practices or the features of our products. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, lawsuits, breach of contract claims, and other claims and penalties, we could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Any inability to adequately address privacy and security concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable privacy and security or data security laws, regulations, and policies, could result in additional cost and liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales, and adversely affect our business.. Furthermore, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the laws, regulations, and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our customers may limit the use and adoption of, and reduce the overall demand for, our products. Privacy and data security concerns, whether valid or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our products, particularly in certain industries and foreign countries.. 26. Table of Contents. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights.. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our future success depends in part on not infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. From time to time, our competitors or other third parties may claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. We may receive claims from third parties, including our competitors, that our products and underlying technology infringe or violate a third party's intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. We may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some or all of our technology. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, prevent us from offering one or more of our products, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. We may also be obligated to indemnify our customers or business partners in connection with any such litigation and to obtain licenses, modify our products, or refund subscription fees, which could further exhaust our resources. In addition, we may incur substantial costs to resolve claims or litigation, whether or not successfully asserted against us, which could include payment of significant settlement, royalty, or license fees, modification of our products, or refunds to customers of subscription fees. Even if we were to prevail in the event of claims or litigation against us, any claim or litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and other employees from our business operations. Such disputes could also disrupt our products, adversely impacting our customer satisfaction and ability to attract customers.. Indemnity provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement and other losses.. Our agreements with customers and other third parties may include indemnification or other provisions under which we agree to indemnify or otherwise be liable to them for losses suffered or incurred as a result of claims of intellectual property infringement, damages caused by us to property or persons, or other liabilities relating to or arising from our products or other acts or omissions. The term of these contractual provisions often survives termination or expiration of the applicable agreement. Large indemnity payments or damage claims from contractual breach could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. From time to time, customers require us to indemnify or otherwise be liable to them for breach of confidentiality or failure to implement adequate security measures with respect to their data stored, transmitted, or processed by our products and customer service platform. Although we normally contractually limit our liability with respect to such obligations, we may still incur substantial liability related to them. Any dispute with a customer with respect to such obligations could have adverse effects on our relationship with that customer and other current and prospective customers, reduce demand for our products, and harm our business and operating results.. Our use of \"open source\" software could negatively affect our ability to sell our products and subject us to possible litigation.. We use open source software in our products and expect to continue to use open source software in the future. We may face claims from others claiming ownership of, or seeking to enforce the terms of, an open source license, including by demanding release of the open source software, derivative works, or our proprietary source code that was developed using such software. These claims could also result in litigation, require us to purchase a costly license, or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our products, any of which would have a negative effect on our business and operating results. In addition, if the license terms for the open source software we utilize change, we may be forced to reengineer our products or incur additional costs. Although we have implemented policies to regulate the use and incorporation of open source software into our products, we cannot be certain that we have not incorporated open source software in our products in a manner that is inconsistent with such policies.. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights could impair our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand.. Our success and ability to compete depend in part upon our intellectual property. We currently have two issued patents and have a limited number of patent applications, none of which may result in an issued patent. We primarily rely on copyright, trade secret, and trademark laws, trade secret protection, and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners, and others to protect our intellectual property rights. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may be inadequate.. 27. Table of Contents. In order to protect our intellectual property rights, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect these rights. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time-consuming, and distracting to management, and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims, and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Our failure to secure, protect, and enforce our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our brand and adversely impact our business.. We may not be able to secure additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, to meet our future capital needs.. We have funded our operations since inception primarily through sales of equity securities, capital lease arrangements, loans for equipment, and subscription payments by our customers for use of our products. We do not know when or if our operations will generate sufficient cash to fund our ongoing operations. In the future, we may require additional capital to respond to business opportunities, challenges, acquisitions, a decline in the level of subscriptions for our products, or unforeseen circumstances. We may not be able to timely secure additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all. Any debt financing obtained by us could involve restrictive covenants relating to financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. Additionally, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service any debt financing obtained by us, which may force us to reduce or delay capital expenditures or sell assets or operations. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities, or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited.. We face exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.. As our international operations expand, our exposure to the effects of fluctuations in currency exchange rates grows. While we have primarily transacted with customers in U.S. dollars historically, we expect to continue to expand the number of transactions with our customers that are denominated in foreign currencies in the future. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may make our subscriptions more expensive for international customers, which could harm our business. Additionally, we incur expenses for employee compensation and other operating expenses at our non-U.S. locations in the local currency for such locations. Fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies could result in an increase to the U.S. dollar equivalent of such expenses. These fluctuations could cause our results of operations to differ from our expectations or the expectations of our investors. Additionally, such foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could make it more difficult to detect underlying trends in our business and results of operations.. Our international subsidiaries maintain net assets that are denominated in currencies other than the functional operating currencies of these entities. Accordingly, changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar can affect our operating results due to transactional and translational remeasurements that are reflected in our results of operations. To the extent that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates cause our results of operations to differ from our expectations or the expectations of our investors, the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected.. We currently operate a hedging program to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on our cash flows and earnings. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign currency exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. Moreover, the use of hedging instruments may introduce additional risks if we are unable to structure effective hedges with such instruments, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. Taxing authorities may successfully assert that we should have collected or in the future should collect sales and use, value added, or similar taxes, and we could be subject to liability with respect to past or future sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. We do not collect sales and use, value added, or similar taxes in all jurisdictions in which we have sales, based on our understanding that such taxes are not applicable. Sales and use, value added, and similar tax laws and rates vary greatly by jurisdiction. Certain jurisdictions in which we do not collect such taxes may assert that such taxes are applicable, which could result in tax assessments, penalties, and interest, and we may be required to collect such taxes in the future. Such tax assessments, penalties, and interest, or future requirements may adversely affect our results of operations.. 28. Table of Contents. Our international operations subject us to potentially adverse tax consequences.. We were founded in Denmark in 2007 and were headquartered in Denmark until we reincorporated in Delaware in 2009.  Today, we generally conduct our international operations through subsidiaries and report our taxable income in various jurisdictions worldwide based upon our business operations in those jurisdictions. Our intercompany relationships and transactions are subject to complex regulations, including transfer pricing regulations administered by taxing authorities in various jurisdictions. Our tax returns are generally subject to examination by taxing authorities and the relevant taxing authorities may disagree with our determinations as to the value of assets sold or acquired or income and expenses attributable to specific jurisdictions or transactions. If such a disagreement were to occur, and our position were not sustained, we could be required to pay additional taxes, interest, and penalties, which could result in one-time tax charges, higher effective tax rates, reduced cash flows, and lower overall profitability of our operations.. Additionally, tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. The United States recently enacted significant tax reform, and certain provisions of the new law may potentially adversely affect us in the future. In addition, governmental tax authorities are increasingly scrutinizing the tax positions of companies. Many countries in the European Union, as well as a number of other countries and organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, are actively considering changes to existing tax laws that, if enacted, could increase our tax obligations in countries where we do business. If U.S. or other foreign tax authorities change applicable tax laws, our overall taxes could increase, and our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be adversely impacted.. If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.. We review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. As of December 31, 2017, we had a net balance of $67.0 million of goodwill and intangible assets related to prior acquisitions. An adverse change in market conditions, particularly a change resulting in a significant decrease in our share price, or if such change has the effect of changing one of our critical assumptions or estimates, could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in an impairment charge to our goodwill or intangible assets. Any such charges may have a material negative impact on our operating results.. Our ability to use our net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, of $464.5 million and $218.4 million, respectively, due to prior period losses. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its NOLs to offset future taxable income. Our existing NOLs may be subject to limitations arising from previous ownership changes, including in connection with our initial public offering or our follow-on public offering. Future changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside of our control, could result in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Code. Furthermore, our ability to utilize NOLs of companies that we may acquire in the future may be subject to limitations. There is also a risk that due to regulatory changes, such as suspensions on the use of NOLs, or other unforeseen reasons, our existing NOLs could expire or otherwise be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities. In addition, under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the Tax Act, the amount of NOLs that we are permitted to deduct in any taxable year is limited to 80% of our taxable income in such year, where taxable income is determined without regard to the NOL deduction itself. There is a risk that due to changes under the Tax Act, regulatory changes, or other unforeseen reasons, our existing NOLs could expire or otherwise be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities. For these reasons, we may not be able to realize a tax benefit from the use of our NOLs, whether or not we attain profitability.. Our estimates of market opportunity and forecasts of market growth may prove to be inaccurate, and even if the market in which we compete achieves the forecasted growth, our business could fail to grow at similar rates, if at all.. Market opportunity estimates and growth forecasts are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates that may not prove to be accurate. Our estimates and forecasts relating to the size and expected growth of the customer relationship management market may prove to be inaccurate. Even if the market in which we compete meets our size estimates and forecasted growth, our business could fail to grow at similar rates, if at all.. 29. Table of Contents. We depend and rely upon SaaS technologies from third parties to operate our business and interruptions or performance problems with these technologies may adversely affect our business and operating results.. We rely heavily on hosted SaaS applications from third parties in order to operate critical functions of our business, including billing and order management, enterprise resource planning, and financial accounting services. If these services become unavailable due to extended outages or interruptions, or because they are no longer available on commercially reasonable terms, our expenses could increase, our ability to manage finances could be interrupted and our processes for managing sales of our products and supporting our customers could be impaired until equivalent services, if available, are identified, obtained, and implemented, all of which could adversely affect our business.. Changes in laws and regulations related to the Internet or changes in the Internet infrastructure itself may diminish the demand for our products, cause us to incur additional expenses, or otherwise have a negative impact on our business.. The future success of our business depends upon the continued use of the Internet as a primary medium for commerce, communication, and business applications. Federal, state, or foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws or regulations affecting the use of the Internet as a commercial medium. Changes in these laws or regulations could require us to modify our products in order to comply with these changes or substantially increase costs associated with the operation of our products. Additionally, the adoption of any laws, regulations, or practices limiting Internet neutrality could allow Internet service providers to block, degrade, or interfere with our products or services. These laws, regulations, or practices could decrease the demand for, or the usage of, our products and services, increase our cost of doing business, and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, government agencies or private organizations have imposed and may impose additional taxes, fees, or other charges for accessing the Internet or commerce conducted via the Internet. These laws or charges could limit the growth of Internet-related commerce or communications generally, or result in reductions in the demand for Internet-based platforms and services such as ours. In addition, the use of the Internet as a business tool could be adversely affected due to delays in the development or adoption of new standards and protocols to handle increased demands of Internet activity, security, reliability, cost, ease-of-use, accessibility, and quality of service. The performance of the Internet and its acceptance as a business tool has been adversely affected by \"viruses,\" \"malware,\" and similar malicious programs and the Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure.. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business.. Our corporate headquarters are located in San Francisco, California and we operate in or utilize hosting services that are located in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia. Key features and functionality of our products are enabled by third parties that are headquartered in California and operate in or utilize data centers in the United States and Europe. Additionally, we rely on our network and third-party infrastructure and enterprise applications, internal technology systems, and our website for our development, marketing, operational support, hosted services, and sales activities. In the event of a major earthquake, hurricane, or catastrophic event such as fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, cyber-attack, war, or terrorist attack, we may be unable to continue our operations and may endure system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in our application development, lengthy interruptions in our products, breaches of data security, and loss of critical data, all of which could have an adverse effect on our future operating results.. Exposure to United Kingdom political developments, including the United Kingdom's vote to leave the European Union, could have a material adverse effect on us.. On June 23, 2016, a referendum was held on the United Kingdom's membership in the European Union, the outcome of which was a vote in favor of leaving the European Union. The United Kingdom's vote to leave the European Union creates an uncertain political and economic environment in the United Kingdom and potentially across other European Union member states, which may last for a number of months or years.. The result of the referendum means that the long-term nature of the United Kingdom's relationship with the European Union is unclear and that there is considerable uncertainty as to when any such relationship will be agreed and implemented. In the interim, there is a risk of instability for both the United Kingdom and the European Union, which could adversely affect our results, financial condition, and prospects.. The political and economic instability created by the United Kingdom's vote to leave the European Union has caused and may continue to cause significant volatility in global financial markets and the value of the British Pound Sterling currency or other currencies, including the Euro. Depending on the terms reached regarding any exit from the European Union, it is possible that there may be adverse practical or operational implications on our business.. 30. Table of Contents. The outcome of the referendum has also created uncertainty with regard to the regulation of data protection in the United Kingdom. In particular, it is unclear how the United Kingdom's vote to leave the European Union will affect the United Kingdom's enactment of the European General Data Protection Regulation, and how data transfers to and from the United Kingdom will be regulated.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, resulting in substantial losses for our stockholders.. The trading price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile and could fluctuate widely regardless of our operating performance. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;. • the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections, or our failure to meet these projections;. • failure of securities analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our company, changes in financial estimates, and publication of other news by any securities analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors;. • ratings changes by any securities analysts who follow our company;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments;. • changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular;. • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time, including as a result of trends in the economy as a whole;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations, or principles;. • actual or anticipated developments in our business or our competitors' businesses or the competitive landscape generally;. • developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or our products, or third-party proprietary rights;. • announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or technologies by us or our competitors;. • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business;. • any major change in our board of directors or management;. • sales of shares of our common stock by us or our stockholders;. • lawsuits threatened or filed against us; and. • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, or responses to these events.. In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. Stock prices of many technology companies have fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were to become involved in securities litigation, it could subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management from operating our business, and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. Our directors, officers, and principal stockholders beneficially own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exert significant influence over matters subject to stockholder approval.. As of December 31, 2017, our directors, officers, five percent or greater stockholders, and their respective affiliates beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 41% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders have the ability to influence us through this ownership position. These stockholders may be able to exert significant influence in matters requiring stockholder approval. For example, these stockholders may be able to exert significant influence in elections of directors, amendments of our organizational documents, and approval of any merger, sale of assets, or other major corporate transaction. This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our common stock that you may feel are in your best interest as one of our stockholders.. 31. Table of Contents. Substantial future sales of shares of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of substantial sales of our common stock, particularly sales by our directors, executive officers, and significant stockholders, or the perception in the market that holders of a large number of shares intend to sell their shares.. Additionally, the shares of common stock subject to outstanding options and restricted stock unit awards under our equity incentive plans and the shares reserved for future issuance under our equity incentive plans will become eligible for sale in the public market in the future, subject to certain legal and contractual limitations.. Certain holders of our common stock have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or our stockholders.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company more difficult, limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management, and limit the market price of our common stock.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that:. • authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by our stockholders, shares of undesignated preferred stock with terms, rights, and preferences determined by our board of directors that may be senior to our common stock;. • require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent;. • specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the Chair of our board of directors, or our Chief Executive Officer;. • establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors;. • establish that our board of directors is divided into three classes, Class I, Class II, and Class III, with each class serving three-year staggered terms;. • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors;. • provide that our directors may be removed only for cause;. • provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum; and. • require the approval of our board of directors or the holders of at least 75% of our outstanding shares of capital stock to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation.. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any \"interested\" stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an \"interested\" stockholder. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our management could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. 32. Table of Contents. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management's attention, and affect our ability to attract and retain executive management and qualified board members.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the listing requirements of the exchanges and other markets upon which our common stock is listed, and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming, or costly, and increase demand on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly, and current reports with respect to our business and operating results. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required. We are required to disclose changes made in our internal control and procedures on a quarterly basis and to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As a result of the complexity involved in complying with the rules and regulations applicable to public companies, our management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Although we have already hired additional employees to assist us in complying with these requirements, we may need to hire more employees in the future or engage outside consultants, which will increase our operating expenses.. In addition, changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs, and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest substantial resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations, and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from business operations to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations, and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be adversely affected.. Being a public company and these new rules and regulations have made it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and in the future we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee and compensation committee, and qualified executive officers.. As a result of disclosure of information in our filings with the SEC, our business and financial condition have become more visible, which we believe may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. If such claims are successful, our business and operating results could be adversely affected, and even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and adversely affect our business and operating results.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock so any returns will be limited to changes in the value of our common stock.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation, and expansion of our business, and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. In addition, our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock may be prohibited or limited by the terms of our future debt financing arrangements. Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the increase, if any, of our stock price, which may never occur.. If securities or industry analysts do not continue to publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our common stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which might cause our common stock price and trading volume to decline.. 33. Table of Contents. Our charter documents designate the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware shall be the sole and exclusive forum for (A) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (B) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, or other employees to us or our stockholders, (C) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, our certificate of incorporation, or our bylaws, or (D) any action asserting a claim against us governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and consented to the provisions of our certificate of incorporation described above. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers, and other employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations."
