[1] "Item 1A.     Risk Factors. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.. This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that involve risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the risks and uncertainties discussed under \"Item 1A - Risk Factors,\" \"Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and \"Item 1 - Business.\" In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as \"may,\" \"might,\" \"will,\" \"objective,\" \"intend,\" \"should,\" \"could,\" \"can,\" \"would,\" \"expect,\" \"believe,\" \"design,\" \"estimate,\" \"predict,\" \"potential,\" \"plan\" or the negative of these terms, and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performances or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss these risks, uncertainties and other factors in greater detail below. These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are based on currently available operating, financial and competitive information. Unless required by United States federal securities laws, we do not intend to update any of these forward-looking statements to reflect circumstances or events that occur after the statement is made.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Our long-term success is highly dependent on our ability to open new restaurants and is subject to many unpredictable factors.. One of the key means of achieving our growth strategy will be through opening and operating new restaurants on a profitable basis. We expect this to be the case for the foreseeable future. In 2017, we opened 39 Company-owned restaurants and we plan to open approximately 25 Company-owned restaurants in 2018.  We may not be able to open new restaurants as quickly as planned.. In addition, one of our biggest challenges is locating and securing an adequate supply of suitable new restaurant sites in our target markets.  Competition for those sites is intense, and other restaurant and retail concepts that compete for those sites may have unit economic models that permit them to bid more aggressively for those sites than we can. There is no guarantee that a sufficient number of suitable sites will be available in desirable areas or on terms that are acceptable to us in order to achieve our growth plan. Our ability to open new restaurants during any given period may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including:. • negotiating leases with acceptable terms;. • identifying, hiring and training qualified employees in each local market;. • timely delivery of leased premises to us from our landlords and punctual commencement of our build-out construction activities;. • managing construction and development costs of new restaurants, particularly in competitive markets;. • obtaining construction materials and labor at acceptable costs, particularly in urban markets;. • unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with leased premises;. • generating sufficient funds from operations or obtaining acceptable financing to support our future development;. • securing required governmental approvals, permits and licenses (including construction permits and liquor licenses) in a timely manner and responding effectively to any changes in local, state or federal laws and regulations that adversely affect our costs or ability to open new restaurants;. • failure of landlords to timely deliver real estate to us and other landlord delays; and. • avoiding the impact of inclement weather, natural disasters and other calamities.. Our progress in opening new restaurants from quarter to quarter may occur at an uneven rate. In addition, as we operate more restaurants, our rate of expansion relative to the size of our restaurant base will eventually decline. Our substantial investment associated with the development of each new restaurant, as well as reinvestment into our older restaurants to bring them up to current competitive standards, may cause our operating results to fluctuate and be unpredictable or adversely affect our business.  If we do not open new restaurants in the future according to our current plans, the delay could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to effectively implement our development plan, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Changes in economic conditions and adverse weather and other unforeseen conditions could materially affect our ability to maintain or increase sales at our restaurants or open new restaurants.. Our business results depend on a number of industry-specific and general economic factors, many of which are beyond our control. The United States in general and the restaurant industry in which we operate may suffer from depressed economic activity, recessionary economic cycles, higher fuel or energy costs, low consumer confidence, high levels of unemployment, reduced home values, increases in home foreclosures, investment losses, personal bankruptcies, tax rates and policy, reduced access to credit or other economic factors that may affect consumer confidence and discretionary spending.  Traffic in our. 11. Table of Contents. restaurants could decline if consumers choose to dine out less frequently or reduce the amount they spend on meals while dining out.  Negative economic conditions might cause consumers to make long-term changes to their discretionary spending behavior, including dining out less frequently on a permanent basis.  In addition, given our geographic concentrations, economic conditions in those particular areas of the country could have a disproportionate impact on our overall results of operations, and regional occurrences such as local strikes, terrorist attacks, increases in energy prices, adverse weather conditions, tornadoes, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, droughts, fires or other natural or man-made disasters could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Adverse weather conditions may also impact customer traffic at our restaurants, and, in more severe cases, cause temporary restaurant closures, sometimes for prolonged periods. These risks may be exacerbated in the future as some climatologists predict that the long-term effects of climate change may result in more severe, volatile weather. A majority of our restaurants have outdoor seating, and the effects of adverse weather may impact the use of these areas and may negatively impact our revenues.  If restaurant sales decrease, our profitability could decline as we spread fixed costs across a lower level of sales.  Reductions in staff levels, potential restaurant closures and related asset impairment charges could result from prolonged negative restaurant sales, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our expansion into new markets may present increased risks.. We intend to develop new restaurants in our existing markets, expand our footprint into adjacent markets and selectively enter into new markets. Some of our new restaurant locations may be located in areas where we have less operating experience than in our traditional, existing markets.  Restaurants we open in new markets may take longer to reach, or may never reach, expected sales and profit levels on a consistent basis and may have higher construction, pre-opening, occupancy or operating costs than restaurants we open in existing markets, thereby affecting our overall financial condition and results of operations. New markets may have competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns that are more difficult to predict or satisfy than our existing markets.   Our competitors in new markets may harm our business by taking away customers or employees through aggressive and costly advertising, promotions or hiring practices. As has happened when other restaurant concepts have tried to expand into new markets, we may find that our concept has limited appeal or we may experience a decline in the popularity of our concept in the markets in which we operate. Additionally, we may need to make greater investments than we originally planned in advertising and promotional activity to build brand awareness and may find it more difficult to hire, motivate and keep management and hourly employees who share our vision, passion and culture in new markets.  We may also incur higher costs from entering new markets if, for example, we assign regional managers to manage comparatively fewer restaurants than in more developed markets.  As a result, these new restaurants may be less successful or may achieve target AUVs at a slower rate, or not at all. If we do not successfully execute our plans to enter new markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. New restaurants, once opened, may not be profitable, and the increases in average restaurant sales and comparable restaurant sales that we have experienced in the past may not be indicative of future results.. Some of our restaurants open with an initial start-up period of higher than normal sales volumes, which subsequently decrease to stabilized levels. Typically, our new restaurants have stabilized sales after approximately 12 to 24 weeks of operation, at which time the restaurant's sales typically begin to grow on a consistent basis. However, we cannot assure you that this will occur for future restaurant openings.  In new markets, the length of time before average sales for new restaurants stabilize is less predictable and can be longer as a result of our limited knowledge of these markets and consumers' limited awareness of our brand.  New restaurants may not be profitable and their sales performance may not follow historical patterns.  Our ability to operate new restaurants profitably and increase AUVs and comparable restaurant sales will depend on many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. • consumer awareness and understanding of our brand;. • general economic conditions, which can affect restaurant traffic, local labor costs and prices we pay for the food products and other supplies we use;. • changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending;. • competition, either from our competitors in the restaurant industry or our own restaurants;. • temporary and permanent site characteristics of new restaurants;. • changes in government regulation; and. • other unanticipated increases in costs, any of which could give rise to delays or cost overruns.. Our average restaurant sales and comparable restaurant sales may not increase at the rates achieved over the past several years. If our new restaurants do not perform as planned, our business and future prospects could be harmed.. 12. Table of Contents. Our sales growth and ability to achieve profitability could be adversely affected if comparable restaurant sales are less than we expect.. The level of comparable restaurant sales, which represents the change in year-over-year sales from restaurants opened for at least 18 full periods, will affect our sales growth and will continue to be a critical factor affecting our ability to generate profits because the profit margin on comparable restaurant sales is generally higher than the profit margin on new restaurant sales.  Our ability to increase comparable restaurant sales depends in part on our ability to successfully implement our initiatives to build sales.  It is possible such initiatives will not be successful, that we will not achieve our target comparable restaurant sales growth or that the change in comparable restaurant sales could be negative, which may cause a decrease in sales growth and ability to achieve profitability that would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See \"Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Key Measures We Use to Evaluate Our Performance-Comparable Restaurant Sales Growth.\". Our failure to manage our growth effectively could harm our business and operating results.. Our growth plan includes developing and opening a significant number of new restaurants. While we have continued to invest heavily in our infrastructure including our restaurant management systems, administrative staff, financial and management controls and information systems, such infrastructure may be inadequate to support our planned expansion.  Any constraints on our infrastructure and resources may also adversely affect our ability to open and operate our existing restaurants.  Managing our growth effectively will require us to continue to upgrade our infrastructure as well as our process and controls relating to hiring, training and retaining our managers and team members.  We may not respond quickly enough to the changing demands that our expansion will impose on our management, restaurant teams and existing infrastructure, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our failure to maintain our culture and our relationships with our team members and guests could be negatively affected.. We are very proud of our unique culture, from the restaurant-level up through senior management, and truly believe it is integral to our company's growth to date.  Among other important factors, our culture depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate team members who share our enthusiasm and dedication to delivering goodness to our guests and all others.  As we continue to grow, we may have difficulty adapting to sufficiently meet the needs of our operations and simultaneously continuing to maintain our culture.  The restaurant labor market remains highly competitive, and we may find it challenging to hire and retain qualified team members who will support and promote our culture.  Any inability to attract and retain such persons would limit the success of our business. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we do not maintain our culture as we grow.. We have experienced net losses in the past, and we may experience net losses in the future.. We experienced a net loss of $2.0 million in 2017,  while in 2016 and 2015, we achieved net income of $1.8 million and $1.1 million, respectively. As a participant in the competitive restaurant industry, we may experience net losses in the future and we cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability in future periods.. Opening new restaurants in existing markets may negatively affect sales at our existing restaurants.. The consumer target area of our restaurants varies by location, depending on a number of factors, including population density, other local retail and business attractions, area demographics and geography as well as the proximity of potential site locations in relation to our existing restaurants. As a result, the opening of a new restaurant in or near markets in which we already have restaurants could adversely affect sales at these existing restaurants.  Existing restaurants could also make it more difficult to build our consumer base for a new restaurant in the same market.  Sales cannibalization between our restaurants may become significant in the future as we continue to expand our operations and could affect our sales growth, which could, in turn, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face significant competition from other restaurant companies, and our inability to compete effectively may adversely affect our traffic, sales and restaurant contribution.. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive with many well-established companies that compete directly and indirectly with us. We compete in the restaurant industry with national, regional and locally-owned limited service restaurants and full-service restaurants.  We face competition from the casual dining, quick-service and fast-casual segments of the restaurant industry.  We also face competition as a result of convergence in grocery, convenience, deli and restaurant services, including the offering by the grocery industry of convenient meals.  Our competition includes a variety of locally owned restaurants and national and regional chains offering dine-in, carry-out, delivery and catering services. Many of our competitors have existed longer and have a more established market presence with substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do.  In addition, competition from delivery aggregators and other food delivery services has also increased in recent years, particularly in. 13. Table of Contents. urbanized areas.  As we expand, we will face competition from these concepts as well as new competitors that strive to compete with our market segments.  These competitors may have, among other things, lower operating costs, better locations, better facilities, better management, more effective marketing and more efficient operations.  Additionally, we face the risk that new or existing competitors will copy our business model, menu options, presentation or ambiance, among other things.. Several of our competitors compete by offering menu items that are specifically tailored to dietary trends and limitations or health-conscious consumers.  Many of our quick-service restaurant competitors offer lower-priced menu options.  Any inability to successfully compete with the restaurants in our markets will place downward pressure on our customer traffic and may prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues and profitability.  Consumer tastes, nutritional and dietary trends, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing restaurants often affect the restaurant business, and our competitors may react more efficiently and effectively to those conditions.  If we are unable to continue to compete effectively, our traffic, sales and restaurant contribution could decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.. Food safety and foodborne illness concerns could have an adverse effect on our business.. We cannot guarantee that our internal controls and training will be fully effective in preventing all food safety issues at our restaurants, including food tampering or any occurrences of foodborne illnesses.  Our quality assurance, health and sanitation internal controls and conditions are inspected by a third-party periodically. If the third-party inspector fails to report unsafe or unsanitary conditions or insufficient internal controls, we cannot guarantee that our internal controls will be fully effective in preventing all food safety issues.  Furthermore, since we rely on third-party suppliers, it is difficult to monitor food safety compliance and increases the risk that foodborne illness would affect multiple locations rather than a single restaurant.  Some foodborne illness incidents could be caused by third-party vendors and transporters outside of our control.  We cannot assure you that all food items are properly maintained during transport throughout the supply chain and that we will identify all products that should not be used in our restaurants.  New illnesses resistant to our current precautions may develop in the future, or diseases with long incubation periods could arise, that could give rise to claims or allegations on a retroactive basis. One or more instances of foodborne illness or food safety issues relating to any of our restaurants or markets could adversely affect our brand and negatively affect our restaurant sales nationwide.  This risk exists even if it were later determined that the illness was wrongly attributed to us or one of our restaurants. A number of other national restaurant chains have experienced incidents related to foodborne illnesses that have had a material adverse effect on their operations.  The occurrence of a similar incident at one or more of our restaurants, or negative publicity or public speculation about an incident, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Damage to our reputation could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our growth is dependent in part upon our ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brand, consumers' connection to our brand and positive relationships with our guests and employees.  Brand value is based in part on consumer perception of a variety of subjective qualities. We believe we have built our reputation on the high-quality of our food, service and staff, as well as on our culture and the ambience in our restaurants, and we must protect and grow the value of our brand to continue to be successful in the future.  Any incident that erodes consumer affinity for our brand could significantly reduce its value and damage our business.  For example, our brand value could suffer and our business could be adversely affected if customers perceive a reduction in the quality of our food, service or staff, or an adverse change in our culture or ambience, or otherwise believe we have failed to deliver a consistently positive experience.. We may be adversely affected by news reports or other negative publicity regardless of their accuracy, regarding food quality issues, public health concerns, illness, safety, injury, customer complaints or litigation, health inspection scores, integrity of our or our suppliers' food processing, employee relationships or government or industry findings concerning our restaurants, restaurants operated by other foodservice providers or others across the food industry supply chain.  The risks associated with such negative publicity cannot be completely eliminated or mitigated and may materially harm our results of operations and result in damage to our brand.  Additionally, employee claims against us based on, among other things, wage and hour violations, discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination may also create negative publicity that could adversely affect us and divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations.  A significant increase in the number of these claims or an increase in the number of successful claims could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Consumer demand for our products and our brand's value could diminish significantly if any such incidents or other matters create negative publicity or otherwise erode consumer confidence in us or our products, which would likely result in lower sales and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 14. Table of Contents. Our inability or failure to recognize, respond to and effectively manage the accelerated impact of social media could adversely impact our business.. In recent years, there has been a marked increase in the use of social media platforms and similar networks, including weblogs (blogs), social media websites, Twitter and other forms of Internet-based communications which allow individuals to access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons.  The availability of information on social media platforms is virtually immediate as is its impact.  Many social media platforms immediately publish the content that their subscribers and participants post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of such posted content.  The opportunity for dissemination of information, including inaccurate or incomplete information, is readily available.  Information concerning our Company may be posted on such platforms at any time.  Information posted may be adverse to our interests or may be inaccurate, each of which may harm our performance, prospects or business.  The harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction.  Any dissemination of adverse, inaccurate or incomplete information online could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Governmental regulation may adversely affect our ability to open new restaurants or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to various federal, state and local regulations, including those relating to building and zoning requirements and those relating to the preparation and sale of food. The development and operation of restaurants depends to a significant extent on the selection and acquisition of suitable sites, which are subject to zoning, land use, environmental, traffic and other regulations and requirements. Our restaurants are also subject to state and local licensing and regulation by health, alcoholic beverage, sanitation, food and occupational safety and other agencies. We may experience material difficulties or failures in obtaining the necessary licenses, approvals or permits for our restaurants, which could delay planned restaurant openings or affect the operations at our existing restaurants. In addition, stringent and varied requirements of local regulators with respect to zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay or prevent development of new restaurants in particular locations.. We are subject to the U.S. Americans with Disabilities Act (\"ADA\") and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas, including our restaurants. We may in the future need to modify restaurants by adding access ramps or redesigning certain architectural fixtures to provide service to or make reasonable accommodations for disabled persons. The expenses associated with these modifications could be material.. Our operations are also subject to the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Act, which governs worker health and safety, the U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages and overtime, and a variety of similar federal, state and local laws that govern these and other employment law matters. We may also be subject to lawsuits from our employees, the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or others alleging violations of federal and state laws regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters, and we have been party to such matters in the past.  In addition, federal, state and local changes in minimum wages, paid sick leave or labor law matters could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. There is also a potential for increased regulation of certain food establishments in the United States, where compliance with a Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Policies (\"HAACP\") approach would be required. HACCP refers to a management system in which food safety is addressed through the analysis and control of potential hazards from production, procurement and handling, to manufacturing, distribution and consumption of the finished product. Many states have required restaurants to develop and implement HACCP Systems, and the United States government continues to expand the sectors of the food industry that must adopt and implement HACCP programs. For example, the Food Safety Modernization Act (\"FSMA\"), grants the FDA authority regarding the safety of the entire food system, including through increased inspections and mandatory food recalls. In certain instances, these requirements may be challenging to meet which may result in substantial costs. For example, our suppliers may initiate or otherwise be subject to food recalls that may impact the availability of certain products, result in adverse publicity or require us to take actions that could be costly for us or otherwise impact our business. We may be required to incur additional time and resources to comply with new food safety requirements made under FSMA or other federal or state food safety regulations. Failure to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of federal, state and local authorities could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. In addition, many applicable laws could require us to expend significant funds to make modifications to our restaurants or operations to comply with such laws. Compliance with these laws can be costly and may increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings.. 15. Table of Contents. Legislation and regulations requiring the display and provision of nutritional information for our menu offerings, and new information or attitudes regarding diet and health could result in changes in regulations and consumer consumption habits that could adversely affect our business.. Regulations and consumer eating habits may change as a result of new information or attitudes regarding diet and health or new information regarding the adverse health effects of consuming certain menu offerings. Such changes may include federal, state and local regulations that impact the ingredients and nutritional content of the food and beverages we offer.  The growth of our restaurant operations is dependent, in part, upon our ability to effectively respond to changes in any consumer health regulations and our ability to adapt our menu offerings to trends in food consumption.  If consumer health regulations or consumer eating habits change significantly, we may choose or be required to modify or delete certain menu items or ingredients, which may adversely affect the attractiveness of our restaurants to new or returning customers.  We may also experience higher costs associated with the implementation of those changes.  To the extent we are unwilling or unable to respond with appropriate changes to our menu offerings, it could materially affect consumer demand and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Such changes have also resulted in, and may continue to result in, laws and regulations requiring us to disclose the nutritional content of our food offerings, and they have resulted, and may continue to result in, laws and regulations affecting permissible ingredients and menu offerings. For example, federal, state and local menu labeling laws require multi-unit restaurant operators to disclose to consumers certain nutritional information, and have enacted legislation restricting the use of certain types of ingredients in restaurants. Specifically, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (\"PPACA\") requires chain restaurants with 20 or more locations operating under the same name and offering substantially the same menus to publish the total number of calories of standard menu items on menus and menu boards, along with a statement that puts this calorie information in the context of a total daily calorie intake. Disclosure of the nutritional value and calorie count of our menu items could be challenging for us to comply with in an efficient manner. Additionally, we use third-party nutritional groups to evaluate the nutritional value and calorie count of our menu items.  If any third party evaluation report is inaccurate or incomplete, we may fail to comply with PPACA or other consumer health regulations. The PPACA also requires covered restaurants to provide to consumers, upon request, a written summary of detailed nutritional information for each standard menu item, and to provide a statement on menus and menu boards about the availability of this information upon request. An unfavorable report on, or reaction to, our menu ingredients, the size of our portions or the nutritional content of our menu items could negatively influence the demand for our offerings.. Compliance with current and future laws and regulations regarding the ingredients and nutritional content of our menu items may be costly and time-consuming. The risks and costs associated with nutritional disclosures on our menus could also impact our operations, particularly given differences among applicable legal requirements and practices within the restaurant industry with respect to testing and disclosure, ordinary variations in food preparation among our own restaurants, and the need to rely on the accuracy and completeness of nutritional information obtained from third-party suppliers.  We may not be able to effectively respond to changes in consumer health perceptions or to successfully implement the nutrient content disclosure requirements.  We also may not be able to effectively adapt any new menu offerings to such perceptions and requirements. The imposition of menu labeling laws could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our position within the restaurant industry in general.. We rely heavily on certain vendors, suppliers and distributors, which could adversely affect our business.. Our ability to maintain consistent price and quality throughout our restaurants depends in part upon our ability to acquire specified food products and supplies in sufficient quantities at a reasonable cost from third-party vendors, suppliers and distributors.  We contract with multiple suppliers including Sysco, one of the largest distributors of food and related products to the U.S. food service industry. In 2017, our payments to Sysco constituted most of our cost of sales.  Our remaining food supplies are distributed by other distributors under separate contracts and purchase orders.  We do not control the businesses of our vendors, suppliers, and distributors, and our efforts to specify and monitor the standards under which they perform may not be successful.  Furthermore, certain food items are perishable, and we have limited control over whether these items will be delivered to us in appropriate condition for use in our restaurants. A shortage or interruption in the availability of certain food products or supplies could increase costs and limit the availability of products critical to restaurant operations, which in turn could lead to restaurant closures or a decrease in sales which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, we use various third-party vendors to provide, support and maintain most of our management information systems. We also outsource certain accounting, payroll and human resource functions to business process service providers.  The failure of such vendors to fulfill their obligations could disrupt our operations.  Additionally, any changes we may make to the services we obtain from our current or new vendors may disrupt our operations.  These disruptions could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. Changes in food and supply costs or failure to receive frequent deliveries of fresh food ingredients and other supplies could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our financial condition and results of operations depend in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food and supply costs, and our ability to maintain our menu depends in part on our ability to acquire ingredients that meet our specifications from reliable suppliers.  Our menu offerings rely on local suppliers to provide fresh foods.  Shortages or interruptions in the availability of certain supplies caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, food contamination, inclement weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of our ingredients, which could harm our operations.  Any increase in the prices of the food products most critical to our menu, such as fresh produce, feta cheese and chicken, could adversely affect our operating results. Although we try to manage the impact that these fluctuations have on our operating results, we remain susceptible to increases in food costs as a result of factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, seasonal fluctuations, weather conditions, demand, food safety concerns, generalized infectious diseases, product recalls and government regulations.. If any of our distributors or suppliers performs inadequately, or our distribution or supply relationships are disrupted for any reason, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. Although we often enter into contracts for the purchase of food products and supplies, we do not have long-term contracts for the purchase of some of these food products and supplies. As a result, we may not be able to anticipate or react to changing food costs by adjusting our purchasing practices or menu prices, which could cause our operating results to deteriorate. If we cannot engage replacement distributors or suppliers who meet our specifications in a short period of time, that could increase our expenses and cause shortages of food and other items at our restaurants, which may cause a restaurant to remove items from its menu. Any affected restaurants could experience significant reductions in sales during the shortage or thereafter, if customers change their dining habits as a result. In addition, because we provide moderately priced food, we may choose not to, or may be unable to, pass along commodity price increases to consumers. These potential changes in food and supply costs could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The effect of changes to healthcare laws in the United States may increase the number of employees who choose to participate in our healthcare plans, which may significantly increase our healthcare costs and negatively impact our financial results.. The PPACA requires health care coverage for many uninsured individuals and expand coverage to those already insured. We currently offer and subsidize a portion of comprehensive healthcare coverage, primarily for our salaried employees. Starting in 2015, the healthcare reform law required us to offer healthcare benefits to all full-time employees (including full-time hourly employees) that met certain minimum requirements of coverage and affordability, or face penalties. In offering such benefits we cannot assure you that the expense will be insubstantial in the future.  If the benefits we elect to offer do not meet the applicable requirements, then we may incur penalties and potential liability.  The healthcare reform law also requires individuals to obtain coverage or face individual penalties, so employees who are currently eligible but elect not to participate in our healthcare plans may find it more advantageous to participate in the future. It is also possible that by making changes or failing to make changes in the healthcare plans we offer, we will become less competitive in the market for our labor.  Finally, we are anticipating changes to  the PPACA requirements in the future, which may impose additional compliance and administrative costs that we cannot predict.   While any effects of these new and existing healthcare requirements cannot be determined with certainty, they may significantly increase our overall healthcare coverage costs and could materially adversely affect our, business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in, or noncompliance with, labor laws may adversely affect our business.. Various federal and state labor laws govern the relationship with our team members and affect operating costs. These laws include employee classification as exempt/non-exempt for overtime and other purposes, minimum wage requirements, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, immigration status and other wage and benefit requirements. Significant additional government-imposed increases in the following areas could materially affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations:. • minimum wages;. • mandatory health benefits;. • vacation accruals;. • paid leaves of absence, including paid sick leave; and. • tax reporting.. 17. Table of Contents. In addition, various states in which we operate are considering or have already adopted new immigration laws or enforcement programs, and the U.S. Congress and Department of Homeland Security from time to time consider and may implement changes to federal immigration laws, regulations or enforcement programs as well. Some of these changes may increase our obligations for compliance and oversight, which could subject us to additional costs and make our hiring process more cumbersome, or reduce the availability of potential employees. Although we require all workers to provide us with government-specified documentation evidencing their employment eligibility, some of our employees may, without our knowledge, be unauthorized workers. We currently participate in the E-Verify program, an Internet-based, free program run by the United States government to verify employment eligibility, in states in which participation is required. However, use of the E-Verify program does not guarantee that we will properly identify all applicants who are ineligible for employment. Unauthorized workers are subject to deportation and may subject us to fines or penalties, and if any of our workers are found to be unauthorized we could experience adverse publicity that negatively impacts our brand and may make it more difficult to hire and keep qualified employees. Termination of a significant number of employees who were unauthorized employees may disrupt our operations, cause temporary increases in our labor costs as we train new employees and result in additional adverse publicity. We could also become subject to fines, penalties and other costs related to claims that we did not fully comply with all recordkeeping obligations of federal and state immigration compliance laws. These factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Unionization activities or labor disputes may disrupt our operations and affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Although none of our employees are currently covered under collective bargaining agreements, our employees may elect to be represented by labor unions in the future. If a significant number of our employees were to become unionized and collective bargaining agreement terms were significantly different from our current compensation arrangements, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a labor dispute involving some or all of our employees may harm our reputation, disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues, and resolution of disputes may increase our costs.. As an employer, we may be subject to various employment-related claims, such as individual or class actions or government enforcement actions relating to alleged employment discrimination, employee classification and related withholding, wage-hour, labor standards or healthcare and benefit issues. Such actions, if brought against us and successful in whole or in part, may affect our ability to compete or could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we face labor shortages or increased labor costs, our growth and operating results could be adversely affected.. Labor is a primary component in the cost of operating our restaurants. If we face labor shortages or increased labor costs because of increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover rates, increases in the federal, state or local minimum wage or other employee benefits costs (including costs associated with health insurance coverage), then our operating expenses could increase and our growth could be adversely affected. In addition, our growth depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of well-qualified restaurant operators and management personnel, as well as a sufficient number of other qualified employees, including customer service and kitchen staff, to keep pace with our expansion schedule. Qualified individuals needed to fill these positions are in short supply in some geographic areas. In addition, restaurants have traditionally experienced relatively high employee turnover rates. Although we have not yet experienced significant problems in recruiting or retaining employees, our ability to recruit and retain such individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants or result in higher employee turnover in existing restaurants, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to continue to recruit and retain sufficiently qualified individuals, our business and our growth could be adversely affected. Competition for these employees could require us to pay higher wages, which could result in higher labor costs. In addition, some of our employees are paid at rates related to the federal minimum wage, and increases in the minimum wage would increase our labor costs. Further, costs associated with workers' compensation are rising, and these costs may continue to rise in the future. We may be unable to increase our menu prices in order to pass these increased labor costs on to consumers, in which case our margins would be negatively affected, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on the services of key executives, the loss of which could materially harm our business.. Our senior executives have been instrumental in setting our strategic direction, operating our business, identifying, recruiting and training key personnel, identifying expansion opportunities and arranging necessary financing. Losing the services of any of these individuals could materially adversely affect our business until a suitable replacement is found. We believe that these individuals cannot easily be replaced with executives of equal experience and capabilities. We also do not maintain any key man life insurance policies for any of our employees.. 18. Table of Contents. Our credit facility may limit our ability to expand our business, and our ability to comply with the repayment obligations, covenants, and other requirements included in the credit facility may be affected by events that are beyond our control.. On November 7, 2017, we entered into a credit agreement with JPMorganChase Bank, N.A. that provides for a five-year $50.0 million revolving credit facility (the \"2017 Credit Facility\"). The 2017 Credit Facility includes the ability to increase indebtedness, subject to certain conditions, by up to $25.0 million. The 2017 Credit Facility contains certain financial and other covenants, including covenants which require us to maintain various financial ratios, limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness and liens, restrict the amount of capital expenditures that we may incur, and restrict our payment of cash dividends.  This facility also limits our ability to engage in mergers or acquisitions, sell certain assets, repurchase our stock and enter into certain lease transactions.  The 2017 Credit Facility includes customary events of default, including, but not limited to, the failure to maintain specified financial ratios, the failure to pay any interest, principal or fees when due, the failure to perform certain covenants, inaccurate or false representations or warranties, insolvency or bankruptcy and undergoing a change of control.  For more information about our 2017 Credit Facility, see \"Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules\" of this report.  Any substantial decrease in net operating cash flows or any substantial increase in expenses could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements or force us to modify our operations or sell assets.  As a result, a substantial portion of our cash flows could be required for debt service and might not be available for our operations or other purposes. The covenants in the 2017 Credit Facility may limit our ability to expand our business, and our ability to comply with these provisions may be impacted by events beyond our control.  Any failure to comply with any of the financial or operating covenants included in the 2017 Credit Facility could result in an event of default, permitting the lenders to accelerate the maturity of outstanding indebtedness.  Any failure to comply with the obligations and covenants in our 2017 Credit Facility would have an adverse impact on our financial condition and our liquidity, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow or access capital on acceptable terms to meet our future needs.. Continuing to expand our business will require significant capital in the future.  To meet our capital needs, we expect to rely on our cash flow from operations, our 2017 Credit Facility and other potential third-party financings.  Third-party financings in the future may not, however, be available on terms favorable to us, or at all.  Our ability to obtain funding will be subject to various factors, including general market conditions, our operating performance, the market's perception of our growth potential, lender sentiment and our ability to incur debt in compliance with other contractual restrictions, such as financial covenants under our credit facility and future debt documents. We believe that cash and cash equivalents and expected cash flow from operations are adequate to fund our debt service requirements, operating lease obligations, capital expenditures and working capital obligations for the next fiscal year.  However, our ability to continue to meet these requirements and obligations will depend on, among other things, our ability to achieve anticipated levels of revenue and cash flow from operations and our ability to manage costs and working capital successfully. Additionally, our cash flow generation ability is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations in an amount sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs. Further, our capital requirements may vary materially from those currently planned if, for example, our revenues do not reach expected levels or we have to incur unforeseen capital expenditures and make investments to maintain our competitive position. If this is the case, we may seek alternative financings, such as selling additional debt or equity securities, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so on favorable terms, if at all. Our inability to raise capital could impede our growth or otherwise require us to forego growth opportunities and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our marketing initiatives may not be successful.. We believe our brand is critical to our business. We incur substantial costs and expend significant resources in our marketing efforts to raise brand awareness and attract and retain customers. These initiatives may not be successful, resulting in expenses incurred without the benefit of higher revenues. Additionally, some of our competitors have greater financial resources, allowing them to spend significantly more than us on marketing and advertising, including offering aggressive discounting to their customers. The growing prevalence and importance of social media platforms, behavioral advertising and mobile technology also pose challenges and risks for our marketing and advertising strategies. Any failure to effectively use and gain traction through these platforms or technologies could cause our marketing initiatives to be less effective than our competitors. Any marketing initiatives that are less effective than our competitors, or are otherwise unsuccessful for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have limited control over our franchisees, and any franchisees could take actions that could harm our business.. Franchisees are independent contractors and are not our employees, and we do not exercise control over their day-to-day operations. While we provide training and support to our three franchise locations, the quality of these franchised restaurant operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. We cannot be certain that any of our franchisees will have the business acumen or financial resources necessary to operate successful franchises in their franchise areas in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements, or that they will hire and train qualified managers and other restaurant personnel.. 19. Table of Contents. If franchisees do not meet our standards and requirements, our image and reputation, and the image and reputation of other franchisees, may suffer materially and system-wide sales could decline significantly. We and our franchisees are also subject to laws and regulations relating to information security, privacy, cashless payments, gift cards and consumer credit, protection and fraud and any failure or perceived failure to comply with these laws and regulations could harm our reputation or lead to litigation, which could adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, a franchisee bankruptcy could have a substantial negative impact on our ability to collect payments due under such franchisee's franchise arrangements. In a franchisee bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee may reject its franchise arrangements pursuant to Section 365 under the United States bankruptcy code, in which case there would be no further royalty payments from such franchisee, and there can be no assurance as to the proceeds, if any, that may ultimately be recovered in a bankruptcy proceeding of such franchisee in connection with a damage claim resulting from such rejection.. We are subject to all of the risks associated with leasing space subject to long-term, non-cancelable leases.. We typically do not own any real property. Payments under our operating leases account for a significant portion of our operating expenses and we expect the new restaurants we open in the future will similarly be leased. Our leases generally have an initial term of ten years and generally include two five-year renewal options at increased rates. All of our leases require a fixed annual rent, although some require the payment of additional rent if restaurant sales exceed a negotiated amount. Generally, our leases are \"net\" leases, which require us to pay all of the cost of insurance, taxes, maintenance and utilities. We generally cannot terminate or sublease these leases without substantial economic costs. Additional sites that we lease are likely to be subject to similar long-term non-cancelable leases. If an existing or future restaurant is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. In addition, as each of our leases expires, we may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could cause us to pay increased occupancy costs or to close restaurants in desirable locations. Any increased leasing costs and leases subject to closed restaurants could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The impact of negative economic factors, including the availability of credit, on our landlords and surrounding tenants could negatively affect our financial results.. Negative effects on our existing and potential landlords due to the inaccessibility of credit and other unfavorable economic factors may, in turn, adversely affect our business and results of operations. If our landlords are unable to obtain financing or remain in good standing under their existing financing arrangements, they may be unable to provide construction contributions, or to satisfy other lease covenants to us, and may also be subject to foreclosure proceedings by mortgagees. In addition, if our landlords are unable to obtain sufficient credit to continue to properly manage their retail sites, we may experience a drop in the level of quality of such retail centers. Our development of new restaurants may also be adversely affected by the negative financial situations of developers and potential landlords. Landlords may try to delay or cancel recent development projects (as well as renovations of existing projects) due to the instability in the credit markets and recent declines in consumer spending, which could reduce the number of appropriate locations available that we would consider for our new restaurants. Furthermore, the failure of landlords to obtain licenses or permits for development projects on a timely basis, which is beyond our control, may negatively impact our ability to implement our development plan.. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brand and adversely affect our business.. Our intellectual property is material to our business. Our ability to implement our business plan successfully depends in part on our ability to further build brand recognition using our trademarks, service marks, trade dress and other proprietary intellectual property, including our name and logos and the unique ambiance of our restaurants. While it is our policy to protect and defend vigorously our rights to our intellectual property, we cannot predict whether steps taken by us to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of these rights or the use by others of restaurant features based upon, or otherwise similar to, our concept. It may be difficult for us to prevent others from copying elements of our concept and any litigation to enforce our rights will likely be costly and may not be successful. Although we believe that we have sufficient rights to all of our trademarks and service marks, we may face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to market our restaurants and promote our brand. Any such litigation may be costly and divert resources from our business. Moreover, if we are unable to successfully defend against such claims, we may be prevented from using our trademarks or service marks in the future and may be liable for damages, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect our brand. Our methods of safeguarding this information may not be adequate. Moreover, we may face claims of misappropriation or infringement of third-parties' rights that could interfere with our use of this information. Defending these claims may be costly and, if unsuccessful, may prevent us from continuing to use this proprietary information in the future and may result in a judgment or monetary damages. We do maintain confidentiality. 20. Table of Contents. agreements with all of our team members and most of our suppliers. Even with respect to the confidentiality agreements we have, we cannot assure you that those agreements will not be breached, that they will provide meaningful protection, or that adequate remedies will be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary information. If competitors independently develop or otherwise obtain access to our trade secrets or proprietary know-how, the appeal of our restaurants could be reduced and our business could be harmed.. We may incur costs resulting from breaches of security of confidential consumer information related to our electronic processing of payment card transactions.. The majority of our restaurant sales are by credit or debit cards. In connection with these sales, we receive and maintain certain personal, financial and other information about our customers and employees. Other restaurants and retailers have experienced security breaches in which credit and debit card information has been stolen. We may in the future become subject to claims for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the actual or alleged theft of credit or debit card information, and we may also be subject to lawsuits or other proceedings relating to these types of incidents. If the security and information systems of our outsourced third-party providers we use to process such information is compromised, then we may be subject to fines, penalties and other unplanned losses and expenses.  Proceedings related to theft of credit or debit card information may be brought by payment card providers, banks and credit unions that issues cards, cardholders (either individually or as part of a class action lawsuit) and federal and state regulators. In addition, most states have enacted legislation requiring notification of security breaches involving personal information, including credit and debit card information. Any such claims or proceedings could cause us to incur significant unplanned expenses, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, adverse publicity resulting from these matters may have a material adverse effect on our business.. We rely heavily on technology, and any material failure or breach of security could prevent us from effectively operating our business.. Our information technology systems are used for our point-of-sale, web and mobile platforms, including online and mobile payment systems and rewards programs, and for administrative functions, including human resources, payroll, accounting, legal and internal and external communications.  These information technology systems can contain personal, financial or other key information that is entrusted to us by our customers and employees. Our ability to efficiently and effectively manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. Our operations depend upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and systems against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other catastrophic events, as well as from internal and external security breaches, viruses and other disruptive problems. Failure of these systems to operate effectively, maintenance problems, upgrading or transitioning to new platforms, expanding our systems as we grow or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact our business and reduce efficiency in our operations. Remediation of such problems could result in significant, unplanned capital expenditures. In addition, since we rely on technologies from third-parties, any inability to access, secure, and maintain rights with respect such technologies may harm our business.. Failure to successfully implement technology initiatives could adversely impact operating results.. We continue to invest in and rely upon technology in our restaurants not only to efficiently operate but also in an effort to drive sales growth and margin improvement.  Our strategic technology initiatives may not be timely implemented or may not achieve the desired results. Certain technology systems, including our web and mobile platform, may be unreliable or inefficient which could impact their reliability encouraging our cutomers to use other food ordering or delivery services.  Additionally, implementing evolving technology demands of the consumer may place a significant financial burden on our restaurant operators.  Any deficiencies in our technology systems or inability to remain current with our customers' technology demands could adversely impact our business and subject us to additional costs and liabilities.. Changes to estimates related to our property, fixtures and equipment or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain restaurant locations may cause us to incur impairment charges on certain long-lived assets, which may adversely affect our results of operations.. In accordance with accounting guidance as it relates to the impairment of long-lived assets, we make certain estimates and projections with regard to individual restaurant operations, as well as our overall performance, in connection with our impairment analyses for long-lived assets. When impairment triggers are deemed to exist for any location, the estimated undiscounted future cash flows are compared to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the undiscounted cash flows, an impairment charge equal to the difference between the carrying value and the fair value is recorded. The projections of future cash flows used in these analyses require the use of judgment and a number of estimates and projections of future operating results. If actual results differ from our estimates, additional charges for asset impairments may be required in the future. If any such future impairment charges are significant, our reported operating results would be adversely affected.. 21. Table of Contents. We could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by distracting management, increasing our expenses or subjecting us to material money damages and other remedies.. Our customers occasionally file complaints or lawsuits against us alleging we caused an illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to our restaurants, or that we have problems with food quality or operations. We are also subject to a variety of other claims arising in the ordinary course of our business, including personal injury claims, contract claims and claims alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, equal opportunity, harassment, discrimination and similar matters, and we could become subject to class actions or other lawsuits related to these or other matters in the future. In recent years, a number of restaurant companies have been subject to such claims, and some of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial costs and damages by the defendants. In addition, the restaurant industry has been subject to a growing number of claims based on the nutritional content of food products sold and other disclosure and advertising practices. We may also be subject to this type of proceeding in the future. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we are ultimately held liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our performance. Any judgment, settlement or other liability in excess of our insurance coverage could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any adverse publicity resulting from such claims may also materially and adversely affect our reputation or prospects, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We could be subject to dram shop liability, which may not be covered by our insurance and adversely affect our business.. Since we serve beer and wine in many of our restaurants, we are subject to state and local \"dram shop\" statutes, which may subject us to uninsured liabilities. These statutes generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Because a plaintiff may seek punitive damages, which may not be covered by insurance, this type of action could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Any judgment in such an action significantly in excess of, or not covered by, our insurance policies could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, any adverse publicity resulting from any such claims may adversely affect us and our restaurants taken as a whole.. Our current insurance may not provide us with adequate levels of coverage and may expose us to unexpected costs.. Our current insurance policies may not be adequate to protect us from liabilities that we incur in our business. Additionally, in the future, our insurance premiums may increase, and we may not be able to obtain similar levels of insurance on reasonable terms, or at all. Any substantial inadequacy of, or inability to obtain insurance coverage could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any unanticipated changes in the actuarial assumptions and management estimates underlying our reserves for exposure, including unexpected increases in medical and indemnity costs, could result in materially different amounts of expense than expected under our insurance programs. Furthermore, there are types of losses we may incur that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not economically reasonable to insure. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Failure to obtain and maintain required licenses and permits or to comply with alcoholic beverage or food control regulations could lead to the loss of our liquor and food service licenses and, thereby, harm our business.. The restaurant industry is subject to various federal, state and local government regulations, including those relating to the sale of food and alcoholic beverages. Such regulations are subject to change from time to time. The failure to obtain and maintain these licenses, permits and approvals could adversely affect our operating results. Typically, licenses must be renewed annually and may be revoked, suspended or denied renewal for cause at any time if governmental authorities determine that our conduct violates applicable regulations. Difficulties or failure to maintain or obtain the required licenses and approvals could adversely affect our existing restaurants and delay or result in our decision to cancel the opening of new restaurants, which would adversely affect our business. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to numerous aspects of daily operations of our restaurants, including minimum age of patrons and employees, hours of operation, advertising, trade practices, wholesale purchasing, other relationships with alcohol manufacturers, wholesalers and distributors, inventory control and handling, storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. Any future failure to comply with these regulations and obtain or retain licenses could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Failure of our internal controls over financial reporting could harm our business and financial results.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that we would prevent or detect a misstatement of our financial statements or fraud. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial. 22. Table of Contents. reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. A significant financial reporting failure or material weakness in internal control over financial reporting could result in substantial costs to remediate, and could cause a loss of investor confidence and decline in the market price of our stock.. Changes to accounting rules or regulations, and changes in our accounting assumptions, estimates or judgments, may adversely affect our results of operations.. Changes to existing accounting rules or regulations may impact our future results of operations or cause the perception that we are more highly leveraged.  Other new accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future.  Additionally, our assumptions, estimates and judgments related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, including but not limited to, revenue recognition, fair value of investments, impairment of long-lived assets, leases and related economic transactions, intangibles, self-insurance, income taxes, property and equipment, unclaimed property laws and litigation, and stock-based compensation are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by us. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We spend significant resources in developing new menu offerings, some of which may not be successful.. We continually invest in developing, marketing and advertising new menu offerings which are intended to attract and retain new customers for our restaurants.  Our new menu offerings may not be well-received by customers and may not be successful, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations.  Additionally, if our competitors were to increase their spending on menu development and marketing initiatives, or if our menu and marketing initiatives were to be less effective than those of our competitors, we could experience a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors due to seasonality and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, resulting in a decline in our stock price.. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly because of several factors, including:. • the timing of new restaurant openings and related expenses;. • restaurant operating costs for our newly-opened restaurants, which are often materially greater during the first several months of operation than thereafter;. • labor availability and costs for hourly and management personnel;. • profitability of our restaurants, especially in new markets;. • increases and decreases in AUVs and comparable restaurant sales;. • impairment of long-lived assets and any loss on restaurant closures;. • macroeconomic conditions, both nationally and locally;. • negative publicity relating to the consumption of seafood or other products we serve;. • changes in consumer preferences and competitive conditions;. • expansion to new markets;. • adverse weather conditions in a region or nationally including hurricanes, tornados and similar events;. • increases in infrastructure costs; and. • fluctuations in commodity prices.. Seasonal factors and the timing of holidays also cause our revenue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our revenue per restaurant is typically lower in the first and fourth quarters due to reduced winter and holiday traffic and higher in the second and third quarters. As a result of these factors, our quarterly and annual operating results and comparable restaurant sales may fluctuate significantly. Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year and comparable restaurant sales for any particular future period may decrease. In the future, operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the price of our common stock would likely decrease.. 23. Table of Contents. The price of our common stock may be volatile and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Although we have listed our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange, given our growth strategy and stage of development, we cannot assure you that an active trading market will be sustained in the future. If an active trading market is not sustained, you may have difficulty selling any shares of our common stock, and the value of such shares may be materially impaired. Additionally, the market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly. Those fluctuations could be based on various factors in addition to those otherwise described in this report, including the risk factors described under this Item 1A and the following:. • our operating performance and the performance of our competitors or restaurant companies in general;. • the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC;. • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who follow us or other companies in our industry;. • global, national or local economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance;. • future sales of our common stock by our officers, directors and significant stockholders;. • the arrival or departure of key personnel; and. • other developments affecting us, our industry or our competitors.. As we operate in a single industry, we are especially vulnerable to these factors to the extent that they affect our industry or our products. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation.. Unsolicited takeover proposals, governance change proposals, proxy contests and certain actions by shareholder activists may create additional risks and uncertainties with respect to the Company's business, and any perceived uncertainties as to our future direction also could affect the market price and volatility of our common stock.. Public companies in the restaurant industry have been the target of unsolicited takeover proposals in the past. In the event that a third party, such as a competitor, private equity firm or shareholder activist makes an unsolicited takeover proposal, or proposes to change our governance policies or board of directors, or makes other proposals concerning the Company's ownership structure or operations, our review and consideration of such proposals may be a significant distraction for our management and employees, and could require us to expend significant time and resources. Such proposals may create uncertainty for our employees and additional risks and uncertainties with respect to the Company's financial position, operations, strategies and management, and may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees. Any perceived uncertainties as to our future direction also could affect the market price and volatility of our securities.. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent our acquisition by a third-party, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and could make it more difficult for you to change our management.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and Delaware law, contain several provisions that may make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. For example, we have a classified Board of Directors with three-year staggered terms, which could delay the ability of stockholders to change membership of a majority of our Board of Directors. These provisions may make it more difficult or expensive for a third-party to acquire a majority of our outstanding equity interests. These provisions also may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their common stock.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes will be limited.. As of December 25, 2017, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of $24.9 million and state net operating loss carryforwards of $12.3 million Under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be limited. In general, an \"ownership change\" generally occurs if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by \"5-percent shareholders\" that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. Similar rules may apply under state tax laws. We have experienced ownership changes as a result of our public offerings completed in 2014. As a result of our ownership changes, if we earn net taxable income, then our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carryforwards, or other pre-change tax attributes, to offset U.S. federal and state taxable income will be subject to certain limitations. While we do not anticipate these limitations having a significant impact on our future ability to utilize net operating losses, there can be no assurance that such limitations will not have an impact on us in the future. Those net operating loss carryforwards resulted in a deferred tax asset of $5.8 million at December 25, 2017. A full valuation allowance of $7.8 million is recorded against the net deferred tax assets, exclusive of indefinite-lived intangibles, including these carryforwards.. 24. Table of Contents"
