[1] "Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk.  The following risk factors, issues and uncertainties should be considered in evaluating our future prospects.  In particular, keep these risk factors in mind when you read \"forward-looking\" statements elsewhere in this report.  Forward-looking statements relate to our expectations for future events and time periods.  Generally, the words \"anticipates,\" \"expects,\" \"intends,\" \"may,\" \"should,\" \"plans,\" \"believes,\" \"predicts,\" \"potential,\" \"continue\" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and future events and circumstances could differ significantly from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.  Any of the following risks could harm our business, operating results or financial condition and could result in a complete loss of your investment.  Additional risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we currently think are immaterial may also harm our business and financial condition in the future.. Failure to anticipate, identify and respond to changing fashion trends, customer preferences and other fashion-related factors could have a material adverse effect on us.. Customer tastes and fashion trends in our market are volatile and tend to change rapidly.  Our success depends on our ability to effectively anticipate, identify and respond to changing fashion tastes and consumer preferences, and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings in a timely manner.  If we are unable to successfully anticipate, identify or respond to changing styles or trends and misjudge the market for our products or any new product lines, including adequately anticipating the correct mix and trends of our private label merchandise, our sales may be lower than predicted and we may be faced with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed opportunities.  In response to such a situation, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow-moving inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We may be unable to compete favorably in the highly competitive retail industry, and if we lose customers to our competitors, our sales could decrease.. The teenage and young adult retail apparel, footwear, accessories and hardgoods industry is highly competitive.  We compete with other retailers for vendors, teenage and young adult customers, suitable store locations, qualified store associates, management personnel, on-line marketing content, social media engagement and ecommerce traffic.  Some of our competitors are larger than we are and have substantially greater financial and marketing resources, including advanced ecommerce market capabilities.  Additionally, some of our competitors may offer more options for free and/or expedited shipping for ecommerce sales.  Direct competition with these and other retailers may increase significantly in the future, which could require us, among other things, to lower our prices and could result in the loss of our customers.  Current and increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. U.S. and global economic and political uncertainty, coupled with cyclical economic trends in retailing, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our retail market historically has been subject to substantial cyclicality.  As the U.S. and global economic and political conditions change, the trends in discretionary consumer spending become unpredictable and discretionary consumer spending could be reduced due to uncertainties about the future.  When disposable income decreases or discretionary consumer spending is reduced due to a decline in consumer confidence, purchases of apparel and related products may decline.  The current uncertainty in the U.S. and global economies and political environment could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position.. In response to a decline in disposable income and consumer confidence, we believe the \"value\" message has become more important to consumers.  As a retailer that sells approximately 80% branded merchandise, this trend may negatively affect our business, as we generally will have to charge more than vertically integrated private label retailers or we may be forced to rely on promotional sales to compete in our market which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position.. 11. A decrease in consumer traffic could cause our sales to be less than expected.. We depend heavily on generating customer traffic to our stores and websites.  This includes locating many of our stores in prominent locations within successful shopping malls.  Sales at these stores are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic in those malls.  Our stores benefit from the ability of a mall's \"anchor\" tenants, generally large department stores and other area attractions, to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores and the continuing popularity of malls as shopping destinations.  In addition, some malls that were in prominent locations when we opened our stores may cease to be viewed as prominent.  If this trend continues or if the popularity of mall shopping continues to decline generally among our customers, our sales may decline, which would impact our results of operations. Furthermore, we depend on generating increased traffic to our websites and converting that traffic into sales. This requires us to achieve expected results from our marketing and social media campaigns, accuracy of data analytics, reliability of our website, network, and transaction processing and a high-quality on-line customer experience. Our sales volume and customer traffic in our stores and on our websites generally could be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns, competition from other ecommerce retailers, non-mall retailers and other malls, increases in gasoline prices, fluctuations in exchange rates in border or tourism-oriented locations and the closing or decline in popularity of other stores in the malls in which we are located.  An uncertain economic outlook could curtail new shopping mall development, decrease shopping mall and ecommerce traffic, reduce the number of hours that shopping mall operators keep their shopping malls open or force them to cease operations entirely.  A reduction in consumer traffic to our stores or websites could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to grow customer engagement in our current markets and expand into new markets, which could strain our resources and cause the performance of our existing business to suffer.. Our growth largely depends on our ability to optimize our customer engagement in our current trade areas and operate successfully in new geographic markets.  However, our ability to open stores in new geographic markets in the U.S. and international locations is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, and we may be unable to open new stores as planned or have access to desirable lease space, and any failure to successfully open and operate in new markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  We intend to continue to open new stores in future years, while remodeling a portion of our existing store base such that we have the optimum number of stores in any given trade area.  The expansion into new markets may present competitive, merchandising, hiring and distribution challenges that are different from those currently encountered in our existing markets.  In addition, our proposed expansion will place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources.  These increased demands could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in the financial performance of our individual stores and our overall business.  In addition, successful execution of our growth strategy may require that we obtain additional financing, and we may not be able to obtain that financing on acceptable terms or at all.. Failure to successfully integrate any businesses that we acquire could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial performance.. We may, from time to time, acquire businesses, such as our acquisition of Blue Tomato, which operates primarily in the European market, and Fast Times, which operates in the Australian market.  We may experience difficulties in integrating any businesses we may acquire, including their stores, websites, facilities, personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general operating procedures, and any such acquisitions may also result in the diversion of our capital and our management's attention from other business issues and opportunities.  If we experience difficulties in integrating acquisitions or if such acquisitions do not provide the benefits that we expect to receive, we could experience increased costs and other operating inefficiencies, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and overall financial performance.. 12. Our plans for international expansion include risks that could have a negative impact on our results of operations.. We plan to continue to open new stores in the Canadian, European, and Australian markets. We may continue to expand internationally in other markets, either organically, or through additional acquisitions.  International markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing U.S. market.  As a result, operations in international markets may be less successful than our operations in the U.S.  Additionally, consumers in international markets may not be familiar with us or the brands we sell, and we may need to build brand awareness in the markets.  Furthermore, we have limited experience with the legal and regulatory environments and market practices in new international markets and cannot guarantee that we will be able to penetrate or successfully operate in these new international markets.  We also expect to incur additional costs in complying with applicable foreign laws and regulations as they pertain to both our products and our operations.  Accordingly, for the reasons noted above, our plans for international expansion include risks that could have a negative impact on our results of operations.. Our sales and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis.  Accordingly, our quarterly results of operations are volatile and may fluctuate significantly.. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated significantly in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future.  Our sales and profitability are typically disproportionately higher in the third and fourth fiscal quarters of each fiscal year due to increased sales during the back-to-school and winter holiday shopping seasons.  Sales during these periods cannot be used as an accurate indicator of annual results.  As a result of this seasonality, any factors negatively affecting us during the last half of the year, including unfavorable economic conditions, adverse weather or our ability to acquire seasonal merchandise inventory, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for the entire year.  In addition, in order to prepare for the back-to-school and winter holiday shopping seasons, we must order and keep in stock significantly more merchandise than we carry during other times of the year.  Any unanticipated decrease in demand for our products during these peak shopping seasons could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our quarterly results of operations are affected by a variety of other factors, including:. •  the timing of new store openings and the relative proportion of our new stores to mature stores;. •  whether we are able to successfully integrate any new stores that we acquire and the presence of any unanticipated liabilities in connection therewith;. •  fashion trends and changes in consumer preferences;. •  calendar shifts of holiday or seasonal periods;. •  changes in our merchandise mix;. •  timing of promotional events;. •  general economic conditions and, in particular, the retail sales environment;. •  actions by competitors or mall anchor tenants;. •  weather conditions;. •  the level of pre-opening expenses associated with our new stores; and. •  inventory shrinkage beyond our historical average rates.. 13. Significant fluctuations and volatility in the cost of raw materials, global labor, shipping and other costs related to the production of our merchandise may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions.. Increases in the cost of raw materials, global labor costs, freight costs and other shipping costs in the production and transportation of our merchandise can result in higher costs for this merchandise.  The costs for these products are affected by weather, consumer demand, government regulation, speculation on the commodities market and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control.  Our gross profit and results of operations could be adversely affected to the extent that the selling prices of our products do not increase proportionately with the increases in the costs of raw materials.  Increasing labor costs and oil-related product costs, such as manufacturing and transportation costs, could also adversely impact gross profit.  Additionally, significant changes in the relationship between carrier capacity and shipper demand could increase transportation costs, which could also adversely impact gross profit.. Most of our merchandise is produced by foreign manufacturers; therefore, the availability, quality and costs of our merchandise may be negatively affected by risks associated with international trade and other international conditions.. Most of our merchandise is produced by manufacturers around the world.  Some of these facilities are located in regions that may be affected by natural disasters, political instability or other conditions that could cause a disruption in trade.  Trade restrictions such as increased tariffs or quotas, or both, could also increase the cost and reduce the supply of merchandise available to us.  Any reduction in merchandise available to us or any increase in its cost due to tariffs, quotas or local issues that disrupt trade could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  This includes costs to comply with regulatory developments regarding the use of \"conflict minerals,\" certain minerals originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, which may affect the sourcing and availability of raw materials used by manufacturers and subject us to increased costs associated with our products, processes or sources of our inputs.  Our business could be adversely affected by disruptions in the supply chain, such as strikes, work stoppages, or port closures.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our financial condition and results of operations.. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, profits, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result, the fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Upon translation, operating results may differ materially from expectations.  As we continue to expand our international operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations will increase.  Tourism spending may be affected by changes in currency exchange rates, and as a result, sales at stores with higher tourism traffic may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Further, although the prices charged by vendors for the merchandise we purchase are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, a decline in the relative value of the U.S. dollar to foreign currencies could lead to increased merchandise costs, which could negatively affect our competitive position and our results of operations.. Our business could be adversely affected by increased labor costs, including costs related to an increase in minimum wage and health care.. Labor is one of the primary components in the cost of operating our business.  Increased labor costs, whether due to competition, unionization, increased minimum wage, state unemployment rates, health care, or other employee benefits costs may adversely impact our operating expenses.  A considerable amount of our store team members are paid at rates related to the federal or state minimum wage and any changes to the minimum wage rate may increase our operating expenses.  Furthermore, inconsistent increases in state and or city minimum wage requirements limit our ability to increase prices across all markets and channels.  Additionally, we are self-insured with respect to our health care coverage in the U.S. and do not purchase third party insurance for the health insurance benefits provided to employees with the exception of pre-defined stop loss coverage, which helps limit the cost of large claims.  There is no assurance that future health care legislation will not adversely impact our results or operations.. 14. Our business could suffer if a manufacturer fails to use acceptable labor and environmental practices.. We do not control our vendors or the manufacturers that produce the products we buy from them, nor do we control the labor and environmental practices of our vendors and these manufacturers.  The violation of labor, safety, environmental and/or other laws and standards by any of our vendors or these manufacturers, or the divergence of the labor and environmental practices followed by any of our vendors or these manufacturers from those generally accepted as ethical in the U.S., could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt, the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation.  Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and results of operations.  In that regard, most of the products we sell are manufactured overseas, primarily in Asia, Mexico and Central America, which may increase the risk that the labor and environmental practices followed by the manufacturers of these products may differ from those considered acceptable in the U.S.. Additionally, our products are subject to regulation of and regulatory standards set by various governmental authorities with respect to quality and safety.  These regulations and standards may change from time to time.  Our inability to comply on a timely basis with regulatory requirements could result in significant fines or penalties, which could adversely affect our reputation and sales.  Issues with the quality and safety of merchandise we sell, regardless of our culpability, or customer concerns about such issues, could result in damage to our reputation, lost sales, uninsured product liability claims or losses, merchandise recalls and increased costs.. If we fail to develop and maintain good relationships with vendors or if a vendor is otherwise unable or unwilling to supply us with adequate quantities of their products at acceptable prices, our business and financial performance could suffer.. Our business is dependent on developing and maintaining good relationships with a large number of vendors to provide our customers with an extensive selection of current and relevant brands.  In addition to maintaining our large number of current vendor relationships, this includes identifying, attracting and launching new vendors every year to provide a diverse and unique product assortment. We believe that we generally are able to obtain attractive pricing and terms from vendors because we are perceived as a desirable customer, and deterioration in our relationship with our vendors could have a material adverse effect on our business.. However, there can be no assurance that our current vendors or new vendors will provide us with an adequate supply or quality of products or acceptable pricing.  Our vendors could discontinue selling to us, raise the prices they charge, sell through direct channels or allow their merchandise to be discounted by other retailers.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on terms acceptable to us in the future.  In addition, certain of our vendors sell their products directly to the retail market and therefore compete with us directly and other vendors may decide to do so in the future.  There can be no assurance that such vendors will not decide to discontinue supplying their products to us, supply us only less popular or lower quality items, raise the prices they charge us or focus on selling their products directly.. In addition, a number of our vendors are smaller, less capitalized companies and are more likely to be impacted by unfavorable general economic and market conditions than larger and better capitalized companies.  These smaller vendors may not have sufficient liquidity during economic downturns to properly fund their businesses and their ability to supply their products to us could be negatively impacted.  Any inability to acquire suitable merchandise at acceptable prices, or the loss of one or more key vendors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is susceptible to weather conditions that are out of our control, including the potential risks of unpredictable weather patterns and any weather patterns associated with naturally occurring global climate change, and the resultant unseasonable weather could have a negative impact on our results of operations.. Our business is susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions.  For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season (including any weather patterns associated with global warming and cooling) could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions.  These prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. 15. Our omni-channel strategy may not have the return we anticipate, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We are executing an omni-channel strategy to enable our customers to shop wherever, whenever and however they choose to engage with us.  Our omni-channel strategy may not deliver the results we anticipate or may not adequately anticipate changing consumer trends, preferences and expectations.  We will continue to develop additional ways to execute our superior omni-channel experience and interact with our customers, which requires significant investments in IT systems and changes in operational strategy, including localization, on-line and in-store point of sale systems, order management system, and transportation management system.  If we fail to effectively integrate our store and ecommerce shopping experiences, effectively scale our IT structure or we do not realize the return on our investments that we anticipate our operating results could be adversely affected.  Our competitors are also investing in omni-channel initiatives.  If our competitors are able to be more effective in their strategy, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.  If we our omni-channel strategy fails to meet customer expectations related to functionality, timely delivery, or customer experience, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Additionally, to manage the anticipated growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our operational and financial systems, transaction processing, procedures and controls, and in doing so could incur substantial additional expenses that could impact our financial results.. If our information systems fail to function effectively our operations could be disrupted and our financial results could be harmed.. If our information systems do not work effectively, this could adversely impact the promptness and accuracy of our transaction processing, financial accounting and reporting and our ability to manage our business and properly forecast operating results and cash requirements.  Further, we may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our operations.  Additionally, we rely on third-party service providers for certain information systems functions.  If a service provider fails to provide the data quality, communications capacity, security or services we require, the failure could interrupt our services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If the security of our data is breached we may be subjected to adverse publicity, litigation and significant expenses.. Information systems are susceptible to an increasing threat of continually evolving cybersecurity risks. We maintain security systems, devices and activity monitoring to prevent unauthorized access to our network, systems and databases containing confidential, proprietary, and personally identifiable information.  Nevertheless, if unauthorized parties gain access to our networks, systems or databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify confidential information.  In such circumstances, we could be held liable to our customers or other parties or be subject to regulatory or other actions for breaching privacy rules and we may be exposed to reputation damage and loss of customers' trust and business.  This could result in costly investigations and litigation, civil or criminal penalties and adverse publicity that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation.  Actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional resources, train employees, and engage third-parties. Further, the regulatory environment surrounding information security, cybersecurity and privacy is increasingly demanding. If we are unable to comply with the new and changing security standards, we may be subject to fines, restrictions and financial exposure, which could adversely affect our retail operations.. If we lose key executives or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our financial performance could suffer.. Our performance depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our key executives.  If we lose the services of one or more of our key executives, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our growth objectives.  Furthermore, as our business grows, we will need to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in a timely manner and we may not be able to do so.. 16. Our failure to meet our staffing needs could adversely affect our ability to implement our growth strategy and could have a material impact on our results of operations.. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees who understand and appreciate our culture and brand and are able to adequately represent this culture.  Qualified individuals of the requisite caliber, skills and number needed to fill these positions may be in short supply in some areas and the employee turnover rate in the retail industry is high. Our business depends on the ability to hire and retain qualified technical and support roles for procurement, distribution, e-commerce and back office functions. Competition for qualified employees in these areas could require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of suitable employees.. If we are unable to hire and retain store managers and store associates capable of consistently providing a high level of customer service, as demonstrated by their enthusiasm for our culture and knowledge of our merchandise, our ability to open new stores may be impaired and the performance of our existing and new stores could be materially adversely affected.  We are also dependent upon temporary personnel to adequately staff our operations particularly during busy periods such as the back-to-school and winter holiday seasons.  There can be no assurance that we will receive adequate assistance from our temporary personnel, or that there will be sufficient sources of temporary personnel. If we are unable to hire qualified temporary personnel, our results of operations could be adversely impacted.. Although none of our employees are currently covered by collective bargaining agreements, we cannot guarantee that our employees will not elect to be represented by labor unions in the future, which could increase our labor costs and could subject us to the risk of work stoppages and strikes.  Any such failure to meet our staffing needs, any material increases in employee turnover rates, any increases in labor costs or any work stoppages, interruptions or strikes could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. A decline in cash flows from operations could have a material adverse effect on our business and growth plans.. We depend on cash flow from operations to fund our current operations and our growth strategy, including the payment of our operating leases, wages, store operation costs and other cash needs.  If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities, and sufficient funds are not otherwise available to us from borrowings under our credit facility or from other sources, we may not be able to pay our operating lease expenses, grow our business, respond to competitive challenges or fund our other liquidity and capital needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The terms of our asset-based revolving credit agreement impose certain restrictions on us that may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions, which could have a significant adverse impact on our business.  Additionally, our business could suffer if our ability to acquire financing is reduced or eliminated.. We maintain an asset-based revolving credit agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., which provides for a senior secured revolving credit facility (\"ABL Facility\") of up to $100 million. The ABL Facility contains various representations, warranties and restrictive covenants that, among other things and subject to specified circumstances and exceptions, restrict our ability to incur indebtedness (including guarantees), grant liens, make investments, pay dividends or distributions with respect to capital stock, make prepayments on other indebtedness, engage in mergers, dispose of certain assets or change the nature of their business. In addition, excess availability equal to at least 10% of the loan cap must be maintained under the ABL Facility. The ABL Facility does not otherwise contain financial maintenance covenants. These restrictions could (1) limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans; and (2) adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, strategic acquisitions, investments or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest.. The ABL Facility includes customary events of default including non-payment of principal, interest or fees, violation of covenants, inaccuracy of representations or warranties, cross-default to other material indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency events, invalidity or impairment of guarantees or security interests, material judgments and change of control. Additionally, we cannot be assured that our borrowing relationship with our lenders will continue or that our lenders will remain able to support their commitments to us in the future.  If our lenders fail to do so, then we may not be able to secure alternative financing on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.. 17. Our business could suffer with the closure or disruption of our home office or our distribution centers.. Domestically, we rely on a single distribution center located in Corona, California to receive, store and distribute the vast majority of our merchandise to our domestic stores.  Internationally, we operate a combined distribution and ecommerce fulfillment center located in Graz, Austria that supports our Blue Tomato ecommerce and store operations in Europe. We operate a distribution center located in Delta, British Columbia, Canada to distribute our merchandise to our Canadian stores. We operate a distribution and fulfillment center located in Melbourne, Australia to distribute our merchandise to our Australian stores. Additionally, we are headquartered in Lynnwood, Washington.  As a result, a natural disaster or other catastrophic event that affects one of the regions where we operate these centers or our home office could significantly disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The effects of war, acts of terrorism, threat of terrorism, or other types of mall violence, could adversely affect our business.. Most of our stores are located in shopping malls.  Any threat of terrorist attacks or actual terrorist events, or other types of mall violence, such as shootings in malls, particularly in public areas, could lead to lower consumer traffic in shopping malls.  In addition, local authorities or mall management could close shopping malls in response to security concerns.  Mall closures, as well as lower consumer traffic due to security concerns, could result in decreased sales.  Additionally, the threat, escalation or commencement of war or other armed conflict elsewhere, could significantly diminish consumer spending, and result in decreased sales.  Decreased sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property or our infringement of other's intellectual property could have a negative impact on our operating results.. We believe that our trademarks and domain names are valuable assets that are critical to our success.  The unauthorized use or other misappropriation of our trademarks or domain names could diminish the value of the Zumiez, Blue Tomato, or Fast Times brands, our store concepts, our private label brands or our goodwill and cause a decline in our net sales.  Although we have secured or are in the process of securing protection for our trademarks and domain names in a number of countries outside of the U.S., there are certain countries where we do not currently have or where we do not currently intend to apply for protection for certain trademarks.  Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our trademarks may not be sufficient or effective.  Therefore, we may not be able to prevent other persons from using our trademarks or domain names outside of the U.S., which also could adversely affect our business.  We are also subject to the risk that we may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties.  Any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product delays or require us to pay royalties or license fees.  As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Our operations expose us to the risk of litigation, which could lead to significant potential liability and costs that could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We employ a substantial number of full-time and part-time employees, a majority of whom are employed at our store locations.  As a result, we are subject to a large number of federal, state and foreign laws and regulations relating to employment.  This creates a risk of potential claims that we have violated laws related to discrimination and harassment, health and safety, wage and hour laws, criminal activity, personal injury and other claims.  We are also subject to other types of claims in the ordinary course of our business.  Some or all of these claims may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming for our management team, costly and harmful to our business.. In addition, we are exposed to the risk of class action litigation.  The costs of defense and the risk of loss in connection with class action suits are greater than in single-party litigation claims.  Due to the costs of defending against such litigation, the size of judgments that may be awarded against us, and the loss of significant management time devoted to such litigation, we cannot assure you that such litigation will not disrupt our business or impact our financial results.. 18. We are involved, from time to time, in litigation incidental to our business including complaints filed by investors.  This litigation could result in substantial costs, and could divert management's attention and resources, which could harm our business.  Risks associated with legal liability are often difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time.. Our failure to comply with federal, state, local or foreign laws and regulations, or changes in these laws and regulations, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial performance.. Our business is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations including those related to employment, trade, consumer protection, transportation, occupancy laws, health care, wage laws, employee health and safety, taxes, privacy, health information privacy, identify theft, customs, truth-in-advertising, securities laws, unsolicited commercial communication and environmental issues.  Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to comply with foreign and domestic laws and regulations, such as those required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we have policies and procedures aimed at ensuring legal and regulatory compliance, our employees or vendors could take actions that violate these laws and regulations. Any violations of such laws or regulations could have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Furthermore, changes in the regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of any new legislation, particularly in the U.S. and Europe, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. Fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility in our operating results.. We are subject to income taxes in many domestic and foreign jurisdictions. In addition, our products are subject to import and excise duties and/or sales, consumption or value-added taxes in many jurisdictions. We record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which include reserves for estimates of probable settlements of domestic and foreign tax audits. At any one time, many tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these audits which may have an adverse effect to our business. In addition, our effective tax rate may be materially impacted by changes in tax rates and duties, the mix and level of earnings or losses by taxing jurisdictions, or by changes to existing accounting rules or regulations. Changes to foreign or domestic tax laws could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We may fail to meet analyst expectations, which could cause the price of our stock to decline.. Our common stock is traded publicly and various securities analysts follow our financial results and issue reports on us.  These reports include information about our historical financial results as well as the analysts' estimates of our future performance.  The analysts' estimates are based upon their own independent opinions and can be different from our estimates or expectations.  If our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline.. The reduction of total outstanding shares through the execution of a share repurchase program of common stock may increase the risk that a group of shareholders could form a group to become a controlling shareholder.. A share repurchase program may be conducted from time to time under authorization made by our Board of Directors.  We do not have a controlling shareholder, nor are we aware of any shareholders that have formed a \"group\" (defined as when two or more persons agree to act together for the purposes of acquiring, holding, voting or otherwise disposing of the equity securities of an issuer). The reduction of total outstanding shares through the execution of a share repurchase program of common stock may increase the risk that a group of shareholders could form a group to become a controlling shareholder.. A controlling shareholder would have significant influence over, and may have the ability to control, matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of mergers, consolidations, sales of assets, recapitalizations and amendments to our articles of incorporation.  Furthermore, a controlling shareholder may take actions with which other shareholders do not agree, including actions that delay, defer or prevent a change of control of the company and that could cause the price that investors are willing to pay for the company's stock to decline.. 19"
